us-russia arms control deal first step towards global disarmament -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 11.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de defense -pipe- 07.05.2009 us-russia arms control deal first step towards global disarmament großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : moscow and washington want to curb nuclear proliferation us and russian officials will begin to negotiate a deal to cut their nuclear weapons arsenals in the coming weeks .
if they succeed , it could convince other nuclear powers to follow suit . the goal is clear and shared by both countries .
russia and the us want to reduce their number of nuclear missiles and replace the old bilateral start arms reduction treaty , which will expire at the end of the year , with a new arms control pact .
a preliminary meeting between the two sides has been described by the russian foreign ministry as " constructive " and " businesslike , " increasing the expectations for a positive outcome .
" i think generally the chances for success are very good " , says oliver meier , international representative of the arms control association .
" both sides on the major issues are really not far apart .
they have the same ideas in mind in terms of overall reductions in warheads , " he added .
" they have the same preferences in terms of having a legally binding , verifiable treaty .
the problem is that the timetable is very challenging because they are aiming for an agreement in the next couple of months and that will be very tough . "
if , as expected , it takes longer to solve the remaining differences , such as whether to include stored warheads as russia wants or not include them as the us wants , the existing start treaty could simply be extended beyond its expiration date at the end of the year .
as an alternative , another similar treaty could be signed until a more ambitious arms deal is reached in a second round of talks .
different categories of nuclear powers bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : barack obama has a long-term vision of a nuclear weapon free world while the prospects to strike a deal with russia look positive , president barack obama has a much loftier vision which he announced in his speech in prague in april : a world free of nuclear weapons .
but could a new arms control agreement between the us and russia , which combined possess at least 90 percent of all nuclear weapons , really put that much pressure on other nuclear powers and launch a global trend towards nuclear disarmament ?
miles pomper , a senior research associate at the center for non-proliferation studies , cautions against unrealistic expectations of a russian-american arms deal on other nations with nuclear weapons .
" what it might do is within the non-proliferation treaty process it would convince other countries of the goodwill of the united states and russia to meet their commitments to make steps toward nuclear disarmament and by doing that those other countries could increase the pressure on the irans and north koreas -lrb- of this world -rrb- to comply with their non-proliferation commitments .
but it 's not a kind of direct correlation . "
the experts point out that it is important to consider that the countries possessing nuclear weapons ca n't simply be lumped together .
the first category of nations , consisting of the states recognized by the nuclear non-proliferation treaty , includes france , britain and china .
getting them involved in arms reduction negotiations would probably be easier than to approach the second group of countries , consisting of india , pakistan , israel and north korea , states that are not formally recognized by the non-proliferation treaty .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : iran and north korea are a risk to regional security , the west says of the official nuclear powers , britain and china tend to be open towards international nuclear disarmament while france has taken a more reluctant stance towards disarmament .
british prime minister gordon brown was speaking about a nuclear free world even before barack obama and china traditionally had voiced a preference for a nuclear weapons free world , the experts point out . it 's a whole different story with the group of unofficial nuclear states .
with them it 's all about regional security , says oliver meier .
" if you go talk about israel of course you have the problem of the middle east , you have the problem of iran and very much will depend on what progress is made in the middle east .
" india and pakistan , of course you have the situation in south asia , the rivalry between those states .
and north korea is anybody 's bet .
that is at the moment very difficult to predict what policy north korea is pursuing . "
political climate has changed bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some in nuclear-armed pakistan harbor hatred of the us and india while it is helpful to keep obama 's vision - a nuclear free world - in mind , it is important to focus on the concrete steps that have to be taken first by russia and the us .
to merely amend or extend the existing start treaty in a first round of negotiations will take time .
to hammer out a new deal with more aggressive cuts in nuclear weapons will require even more patience , says miles pomper .
" just those two negotiations might take all of obama 's first term , assuming there 's a second term .
so i think until you get those you ca n't really judge the third round and maybe bringing other countries into the negotiations . "
obama of course knows himself that the goal of a nuclear free world is a political marathon , not a sprint .
in his speech in prague , he admitted that this goal may not be reached in his lifetime .
still , the global political conditions for a long time have n't been as conducive to nuclear arms reductions as they are right now .
" we now have from a range of people and governments a list of proposals how to move forward towards that goal , " argues oliver meier .
" for the first time in many , many years we have that discussion being led by a range of political actors , but also by the public , who have not taken this goal serious before .
and of course to have the united states in the leadership role has changed the political dynamics a lot . "
author : michael knigge editor : robert mudge send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de obama calls for end to nuclear weapons in prague speech us president barack obama has announced ambitious plans to rid the world of nuclear weapons at a speech in prague .
yet his support for a controversial us missile shield in eastern europe could anger russia .
-lrb- 05.04.2009 -rrb- five security council powers , germany offer direct dialog with iran the five permanent members of the un security council and germany on tuesday offered direct dialogue with iran to solve the ongoing nuclear standoff with the islamic republic .
-lrb- 04.03.2009 -rrb- iran 's new missiles add to europe 's nuclear worries iran alarmed the international community this week by using newly-developed missile technology to launch a satellite into space .
envoys from six countries are meeting in germany on wednesday to plan a response .
-lrb- 04.02.2009 -rrb- north korea says it has reactivated its nuclear program pyongyang says it has reactivated its nuclear program to " bolster the deterrence for self-defence in every way to cope with the increasing military threats from the hostile forces . " -lrb- 25.04.2009 -rrb- 07 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
in depth focus on libya dw-world looks at the turmoil in libya : what it means for tripoli and the rest of the world .
cairo clashes cairo 's tahrir square is back in the headlines after violent clashes between protesters and police .
watch the video podcast series college grad leom left a modern life in cambodia 's capital to bring knowledge to a remote village .
download the report subscribe to the series on itunes past episodes international conference media representatives around the world gather in bonn to discuss human rights .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
eu approves commerzbank bailout -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business 125 years automobile science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de banking -pipe- 07.05.2009 eu approves commerzbank bailout großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : commerzbank was the first german bank to tap into the government 's rescue fund brussels has approved an 18-billion-euro government bailout of germany ’ s second largest bank .
the eu had requested assurances that the money will not give the bank an unfair edge over competitors . part of the money is already on commerzbank 's balance sheets after berlin injected 8 billion euros -lrb- $ 10.6 billion -rrb- into the bank in december last year .
now , commerzbank stands to receive another 10 billion euros of fresh capital .
berlin however needed the approval of brussels and on thursday the eu commission gave its green light .
" on the basis of the notified plans , the commission is satisfied that commerzbank 's long term viability has been demonstrated , and that the aid is kept to the minimum and will not lead to undue distortions of competition .
it has therefore declared the aid compatible , " the eu executive said in a statement .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : frankfurt 's skyline of bank headquarters was rocked by the global finacial crisis but the government aid will be tied to strict restructuring conditions .
commerzbank will have to sell its eurohypo unit , a major european player in the real estate business .
in addition , the bank will be banned for three years from buying other financial institutes that it competes with .
commerzbank , which is germany 's second largest private bank with a balance sheet total of 1,100 billion euros of capital , ran into financial trouble as a result of the global credit crunch .
berlin has welcomed the decision from brussels .
a government spokeswoman said it was " an important step to strengthen the trust in the government 's bailout fund . "
in the wake of the global financial crisis , germany has created a 470-billion-euro rescue fund to support the struggling sector . ai / rm , dpa / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de conditions for commerzbank aid package appear to be set the european commission has set conditions for commerzbank to get an 18 billion euros -lrb- $ 23 billion -rrb- rescue package from the german government .
the bank is expected to shed its eurohypo unit .
-lrb- 22.04.2009 -rrb- german government takes large stake in commerzbank the german government has agreed to take a 25-percent share in commerzbank .
the move signals the first time the government has taken a stake in a major private bank and comes as commerzbank is set to buy dresdner bank .
-lrb- 09.01.2009 -rrb- merkel seeks to make bank bailouts more attractive germany 's rescue package for struggling banks may be in for a revamp to make it more appealing to financial institutions that have so far rejected it , german media reported tuesday .
-lrb- 02.12.2008 -rrb- 07 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit tagesthema we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live stock exchange today in history 1841 : the birth of mass tourism dw-tv get an inside look at some of germany 's more unusual companies .
flying the german flag - costly voyages for shipping companies captains in the classroom - rostock 's maritime school organbuilding - the art and craft of the perfect sound saving makes cents – new heating technology for industry © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
berlin holds 47 percent of troubled hypo real estate -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 11.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de economy -pipe- 07.05.2009 berlin holds 47 percent of troubled hypo real estate großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : berlin 's buy up of shares has given the green light to nationalization the german government has announced it now holds more than 47 percent of the mortgage lender , hypo real estate , following its decision to take over the troubled lender . the government 's financial market stabilization fund , soffin , now holds a 47.31 percent share of munich-based hre , after the government 's bid to buy up shareholders ' stock .
the government 's offer , worth 290 million euros -lrb- $ 386 million -rrb- , expired at midnight monday .
each share had a cash offer of 1.39 euros .
in berlin , finance minister peer steinbrueck said he was pleased with the results of the share buy offer .
" this now means the government can continue with the planned takeover of hre shares , according to stock corporation law , " he said .
" only with the complete government takeover can hre 's survival be ensured and the taxpayers ' interests protected , " steinbrueck added . despite the fact that berlin failed to come up with 50 percent of shares , steinbrueck said that soffin could complete a takeover of the firm through means made available by german shareholder law .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : soffin 's rehm says hypo needs to be rescued to ensure the stabilty of germany 's economy hannes rehm , chairman of the soffin management committee , is optimistic that will happen : " we will consistently pursue our efforts to stabilize hre , " he said .
" the bank is of systemic relevance and must be rescued in order to ensure stability of the financial markets and the german economy .
i expect the envisaged capital increase to be approved by the extraordinary general meeting , " he added .
a capital increase is a type of equity issuance in which new stocks are offered for sale .
hre shareholders have been invited to the extraordinary general meeting on june 2 .
at the meeting , soffin will subscribe all of the new shares , excluding subscription rights of the shareholders .
this will give it a majority of 90 percent , as well as voting rights .
that will pave the way for a takeover of the shares held by the remaining minority shareholders - through a so-called " squeeze-out " procedure .
soffin does not expect the price to exceed the original offer price of 1.39 euros per share .
us private equity firm jc flowers & co , which rejects the government 's plans , still owns about 14 percent of hre . cg / rm , reuters / dp / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de nationalization is on the horizon for beleagered hypo real estate bank the german government has invested more than 100 billion euros in ailing mortgage lender hypo real estate bank to ensure it does n't collapse - now it wants total control .
-lrb- 05.05.2009 -rrb- hre to post more losses , takeover deadline looms as the german government and a us investment group battle over shares in the hypo real estate bank , it seems the struggling lender is still losing money .
-lrb- 04.05.2009 -rrb- flowers rejects government takeover bid for hre a major legal battle for the ownership of german bank hypo real estate is looming after a major investor rejected a bid from the german government .
-lrb- 30.04.2009 -rrb- 07 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live im focus - dokumentationen und reportagen we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live in-box listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
art german photographer lala aufsberg 's work is a fascinating historical record of the 20th century .
watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
doubts remain over medvedev 's power and policy after first year in office -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 09.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de russia -pipe- 07.05.2009 doubts remain over medvedev 's power and policy after first year in office großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : medvedev has had a busy first 12 months in power russian president dmitry medvedev marks the one-year anniversary of his coming to power on may 7 .
twelve months on , questions and doubts still remain over his legitimacy and his policies . global opinion was divided when dmitry medvedev became russian president on may 7 last year .
some saw the new leader as a puppet of vladimir putin , his predecessor and the man who medvedev had served loyally throughout his two terms in office .
others saw the incoming president as a man who could drive russia down a more liberal and democratic road , and reverse decades of state oppression .
one year on – a year during which medvedev has waged his first war and has been thrust into the forefront of the worst global economic crisis for over 80 years – questions and doubts still remain over whether medvedev is really the man leading russia and if he is , whether he is the right man to reform his nation .
so to what extent has medvedev been successful in attempting to answer those questions leveled against him ?
" from medvedev 's point of view , it 's probably been quite a successful year , " sam greene , the deputy director for operations at the carnegie endowment for international peace in moscow , told deutsche welle .
" this dual system of government which was put together – with medvedev as president and putin as prime minister – has not been without its problems but it 's worked relatively well .
it 's kept the ruling elite relatively cohesive and both medvedev and putin have remained popular politically and are seen as relatively legitimate both at home and internationally .
so it has been a success story for the experiment – which is what this presidency with putin as prime minister is ; a huge political experiment .
" but from a policy perspective , in terms of the reforms that medvedev talked about prior to becoming president ; strengthening the rule of law , diversifying the economy – there really have n't been any policy successes , " he added .
" his rhetoric has been very good .
he speaks very ably on the rule of law , on democracy , on economic liberalism but there was a lot of good rhetoric from putin on these issues for eight years and we did n't see any progress in that direction from him either . "
criticism stems from lack of reform progress much of the analysis of medvedev 's first year in power focuses on these promised reforms and the progress – or lack thereof – that russia has made in the spheres of democracy , human rights and press freedom .
according to professor margot light , a russia expert at the center for the study of global governance at the london school of economics , medvedev has fallen short of the optimists ' expectations .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : medvedev was initially against khodorkovsky 's second trial " there have been many words but very few deeds , " she said .
" medvedev came to power with everyone saying that he was far more liberal than putin .
in fact there has been very little sign of this .
it 's only been in the last couple of weeks that he 's started to talk the liberal talk , by giving an interview to an opposition newspaper , for example .
but apart from that there have been very little progress .
there has been the second trial of -lrb- jailed russian oil oligarch mikhail -rrb- khodorkovsky , even though medvedev himself seemed to be against it ; the electronic media is no freer than it was before he came to power and the non-governmental organizations are still having a tough time so there a very few signs that he has made much progress on the democratization front . "
meanwhile , amnesty international declared on the president 's first anniversary that little had been done to improve human rights in russia since he came to power .
in a statement released on thursday , amnesty said that in some areas the situation has deteriorated despite initial improvements , specifically in relation to attacks against lawyers , journalists and opposition activists which it said were on the rise .
sam greene agrees .
" the situation with the press has n't got any better , in fact in some cases it has actually gotten worse , " he said .
" we 've seen more violence against the press .
this is not state-sponsored violence but it 's part of the current climate and it is part of the responsibility of the state to improve the atmosphere and to make clear that violence against the media will not be tolerated .
" in terms of democracy , there was some talk about reforms to the electoral laws but they 've been slow in coming , " he added .
" we saw municipal elections around the country in which the ruling party continued to dominate , continued to rely on administrative resources and its ability to manipulate the system .
we saw this very clearly in the recent mayoral elections in sochi just like month . "
leadership partners still hugely popular in russia despite these criticisms , neither medvedev nor putin has suffered a serious reversal in popularity within the populace .
in fact , both retain huge support within russia .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : medvedev is gaining the kind of star status putin enjoys " medvedev enjoys very high ratings but the problem has always been that russians appear to prefer order to justice , " light said .
" russians are in favor of tough measures if they believe that those tough measures actually make the country more orderly .
so the president and putin still enjoy enormous support from the population . "
sam greene admits that medvedev and putin may have seen a minor dip in popularity but this is mainly due to the current economic crisis , which has seen unemployment in russia increase and income decrease , and not because of any democratic or liberal failures .
but greene believes that the population does n't hold the leadership partners responsible for its economic woes .
“ the people do n't blame medvedev and putin for these problems nor do they really expect the government or medvedev to be able to do much about them , " he said .
" the people are quite pragmatic , if not cynical , about the russian government 's ability to deal with this crisis . "
while medvedev 's polices have been increasingly scrutinized since he came to power , the partnership agreement struck between the president and his prime minister has also come under close inspection during this first year .
questions remain over who really is the boss bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the partnership has to and will endure , say experts the state of the two men 's relationship has been the subject of intense speculation lately as medvedev has grown into his role and repeated reports of an imminent split between the two have begun to circulate .
but both sam greene and margot light believe the partnership will endure .
" i think there was a very clear arrangement between the two of them ahead of their presidential election under which it was agreed that they were playing on the same team and playing the same role which was to maintain the outward legitimacy and stability of the political system and to mediate conflict between the various groups in the elite , " greene said .
" i would n't expect them to work at cross purposes unless there was a real split between the powerful elite in the country .
there seems to be a broad consensus that this current system needs to continue so i think the relationship between medvedev and putin will remain stable .
the only thing that 's changed is that medvedev has become a bit more comfortable in the position , has begun to understand what he can and can not do and become more confident with his rhetoric and his public persona . "
" there have been lots of attempts to find cracks between them , " light added .
" i think it 's fanciful .
i see no cracks between them .
if medvedev was there just to hold the place for putin until he could run again , the danger was always that medvedev would like the taste of power and decide he wanted to keep it for himself .
i see no sign that this has happened – yet , at any rate .
" however , internationally , medvedev is still seen very much as an instrument of putin 's policy , " light concluded .
" although he fulfills all the roles the constitution affords to the president , i still think there is a very strong feeling internationally that putin is making the decisions and medvedev is simply doing his bidding . "
author : nick amies editor chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de pro-kremlin candidate wins sochi mayoral poll amid claims of fraud amid claims of fraud , anatoly pakhomov , the pro-kremlin candidate in mayoral polls for the russian city of sochi , won a landslide victory in an election seen as a test of the political climate under president medvedev .
-lrb- 27.04.2009 -rrb- critics call putin treason bill means to quash opposition human rights organizations have criticized a new bill that would abolish jury trials for people suspected of treason , hostage-taking , organizing mass disturbances and several other serious crimes .
-lrb- 18.12.2008 -rrb- opinion : russia 's power duo offers tenuous political stability it 's an action-packed week in russian politics with dmitry medvedev and vladimir putin taking up their respective offices .
yet everything is not as rosy as it might appear , says deutsche welle 's ingo mannteufel .
-lrb- 05.05.2008 -rrb- 07 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit interview we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inspired minds listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
history austria returns the remains of 30 australian aborigines to their descendants after 100 years .
listen to the audio nuclear power france is n't following germany 's lead when it comes to shunning nuclear power .
watch the video espionage a russian court convicts a former intelligence officer for betraying 10 russian spies in the us .
listen to the audio poland a politician 's comment about the polish region of silesia stirs up an old debate about identity .
watch the video inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
prague summit to launch " eastern partnership " -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de european ties -pipe- 07.05.2009 prague summit to launch " eastern partnership " großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the " eastern partnership " is the brain child of poland and sweden good neighborhood policy is normally on the agenda of the eu rotating presidency .
but the nation at the helm determines which neighbors take priority .
that sweden takes over soon is good news for the eu 's eastern flank . when france was in charge during the second half of 2008 , president nicolas sarkozy made relations with his country 's mediterranean rim neighbors the cornerstone of his six month eu presidency .
membership in sarkozy 's " club med " was based on sharing a common mediterranean coastline , so morocco , turkey , israel and syria met the geographical criteria .
the idea was to provide an eu-mediterranean forum for tackling regional issues such as illegal boat migration from africa , combating terrorism and cleaning up the polluted sea .
the mediterranean union 's inaugural summit last july represented a milestone in bringing the heads of state of israel and its middle east adversaries together in paris , but the french eu initiative had already lost steam by the start of the czech republic 's presidency in january 2009 .
now with less than two months left of prague 's beleaguered eu presidency , the 27 nation bloc 's priorities have shifted northwards and eastwards geographically .
czech prime minister mirek topolanek was ousted last month and will be replaced on may 8 by an interim government .
topolanek 's successor jan fischer takes over the day after the eu launches its " eastern partnership " -lrb- ep -rrb- with six post-soviet states- armenia , azerbaijan , belarus , georgia , moldova and ukraine- at a summit in prague on may 7 .
eu wants stable eastern neighbors bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : eu commission president jose manuel barroso and his commissioners do n't want a new " iron curtain " eu officials say that the goal of the initiative is to help stabilize and modernize the states created from the break-up of the former soviet union by bringing in free markets and pro-democracy reforms .
the russia-georgia war last august over the breakaway province of south ossetia further underscored the eu 's need to " engage more deeply with its eastern neighbors to stabilize the region , " says sabine fischer , a russia and cis expert at the eu institute for security studies -lrb- euiss -rrb- in paris . then there is belarus , formerly called belorussia or white russia , which the eu has long regarded as the black sheep of the post-soviet cis states .
its president alexander lukashenko , who earned the reputation of being " europe 's last dictator " for his government 's dubious human rights record , had even been placed under an eu travel ban , which was lifted last october .
but now that lukaschenko has said he wants to normalize " difficult " relations with the eu , belarus has been invited to participate in the prague summit on a technical level .
however lukaschenko himself will not attend the summit sending instead his deputy vladimir semachko .
russia makes some noise bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : russian foreign minister sergey lavrov speaks out at last month 's annual brussels forum meeting in brussels since belarus is one of the kremlin 's closest allies , russia foreign minister sergei lavrov expressed his dismay over the eastern partnership at a meeting with eu diplomats in luxembourg on april 28 , saying that " any processes leading to developments within the eu … should ensure no overlap in the post-soviet area . " although moscow 's political leaders see an encroachment on their former " sphere of influence " , their bark is louder than their bite , according to russia analysts .
" russia 's political leadership does not really feel threatened by the eu 's rapprochement with the post-soviet states , " said fischer .
" its leaders are more relaxed with the eu , as opposed to nato , " she added .
stefan meister of the german council on foreign relations -lrb- dgap -rrb- who sees the eastern partnership as a regional grouping similar to the mediterranean union , thinks that lavrov might have felt slighted by being left out of the new initiative .
" but he also understands that this can be a typical eu initiative with a lot of talk , but maybe not much happening , " he said .
extension of existing eu structure the eastern partnership , which would be embedded in an existing structure called the european neighbourhood policy -lrb- enp -rrb- , emerged last year as the brainchild of poland and sweden .
enp was created in 2004 when the eu expanded eastwards to include the former soviet satellite states in the bloc , whose membership jumped from 15 to 25 .
romania and bulgaria later joined the eu in 2007 .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : south ossetian separatist fighters celebrate russian recognition of the breakaway georgian territories of south ossetia and abkhazia its initial objective was to minimize the impact of a new iron curtain between the enlarged eu and the neighboring post-soviet states even further east , by offering a privileged partnership based on a commitment to democratic values and market principles .
the eastern partnership builds up a stronger regional dimension that goes further than the enp , says oksana antonenko , a senior russia analyst at the international institute for strategic studies in london .
enp offers bilateral relations with all countries that border the entire eu by land and sea , including the mediterranean union countries , whereas the ep is a multilateral agreement involving only six countries , she explained .
" the ep opens the door to potentially deeper multi-speed integration with the eu on matters such as visa-free travel or free trade , " said antonenko , who explained that member states could keep progressing to a higher level of cooperation with the eu " a la carte " on a specific issue .
not a stepping stone to join the eu the partnership offers carrots to encourage political and economic reforms , but it is not a stepping stone to eventual eu membership , says dgap 's meister , who characterizes the ep as an alternative to joining the eu .
" it brings the six -lrb- cis -rrb- states closer to the value system of the eu and offers them something like a customs union , but maybe not what they really want - the perspective of eu membership down the road , " he said .
ukraine is eager to join the eu club , but the bloc is suffering from enlargement fatigue and the lisbon treaty , that is supposed to streamline decision-making , still hangs in the balance . one of the lisbon treaty 's goals is to create a more permanent eu presidency filled by a high profile politician for a period of two-and-a-half years to replace the current six month rotating system . when the czech term ends at the end of june , the swedes will take over , a stroke of luck for the eastern partnership , according to fischer .
" the swedes are going to put a strong emphasis on this -lrb- northeastern -rrb- region , " she said .
" after all , the ep was their initiative . " author : diana fong editor : susan houlton send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ? 07 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
in depth focus on libya dw-world looks at the turmoil in libya : what it means for tripoli and the rest of the world .
cairo clashes cairo 's tahrir square is back in the headlines after violent clashes between protesters and police .
watch the video podcast series college grad leom left a modern life in cambodia 's capital to bring knowledge to a remote village .
download the report subscribe to the series on itunes past episodes international conference media representatives around the world gather in bonn to discuss human rights .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
suspected war criminal loses us court appeal to stop deportation -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 11.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de world war ii -pipe- 07.05.2009 suspected war criminal loses us court appeal to stop deportation großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : john demjanjuk appears to be losing legal battle against deportation to germany a us supreme court judge has said he will not block the alleged nazi death camp guard john demjanjuk 's deportation to germany to face a war crimes trial . the 89-year-old demjanjuk claims he is too ill to fly to germany .
he is accused of being a guard at the sobibor extermination camp during world war ii and of being an accessory to the murder of some 29,000 jews .
demjanjuk , who is ukrainian born , denies the charges , saying he was captured by the nazis and then kept as a prisoner of war .
german authorities allege that demjanjuk , then 23 , worked from march-september 1943 as a guard in nazi-occupied poland at the sobibor concentration camp .
prosecutors in munich issued an arrest warrant for him in march .
the us supreme court move was seen as one of the last ways to prevent his being taken to germany .
however , under court rules , his lawyers may still submit applications for a stay to the court 's other eight justices .
the lower court had dismissed arguments by demjanjuk 's lawyer that transporting him to germany would pose an undue risk to his health .
it accepted us government assurances that he would receive sufficient medical care during the trip .
the us justice department said it would continue to work with the german government on demjanjuk 's removal , but a spokeswoman could not provide details about the timing of a possible deportation .
a german tribunal earlier on thursday ruled that the german government is under no duty to oppose demjanjuk 's expulsion from us soil to germany .
following world war ii , demjanjuk lived in germany as a refugee until 1952 when he changed his first name from ivan to john and moved to the united states .
demjanjuk was acquitted in 1993 by the israeli supreme court of charges that he worked at a different death camp , treblinka , saving him from the death sentence of a lower court in israel .
but when he returned to the us , he was stripped of his us citizenship . nrt , mh dpa / reuters / ap send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ? 07 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
in depth focus on libya dw-world looks at the turmoil in libya : what it means for tripoli and the rest of the world .
cairo clashes cairo 's tahrir square is back in the headlines after violent clashes between protesters and police .
watch the video podcast series college grad leom left a modern life in cambodia 's capital to bring knowledge to a remote village .
download the report subscribe to the series on itunes past episodes international conference media representatives around the world gather in bonn to discuss human rights .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
obama wins pledge from afghan , pakistani leaders to confront militants -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 09.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de diplomacy -pipe- 07.05.2009 obama wins pledge from afghan , pakistani leaders to confront militants großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : obama warned of more violence in pakistan and afghanistan at the three-way summit president barack obama won a fresh promise from the leaders of pakistan and afghanistan on wednesday to work together to defeat al qaeda , and vowed he would make " every effort " to avoid civilian deaths . afghanistan 's hamid karzai and pakistan 's asif ali zardari came to washington after heavy criticism of their efforts to combat a taliban resurgence in their countries .
after their talks obama said both men " fully appreciate the seriousness of the threat " posed by al qaeda and their allies .
" the road ahead will be difficult .
there will be more violence and there will be setbacks , " obama said , with karzai and zardari at his side in the grand foyer of the white house .
" but let me be clear - the united states has not only made a lasting commitment to defeat al qaeda but also to support the democratically elected sovereign governments of both pakistan and afghanistan .
that commitment will not waiver and that support will be sustained . "
the obama administration has sharply criticized both karzai and zardari in the past , questioning their commitment and capability to tackle the threat from al qaeda and the taliban .
civilian casualties caused by us military operations in both countries , including drone strikes inside pakistan , have infuriated many afghans and pakistanis and made it harder for both countries ' leaders to cooperate with the united states .
military action earlier this week is believed to have caused dozens of civilian deaths with regional lawmakers and the international committee of the red cross reporting that as many as 100 people may have died in an operation in the bala boluk district of farah province in western afghanistan .
" we deeply , deeply regret that loss , " us secretary of state hillary clinton said of the civilian deaths before meeting karzai and zardari .
later she called that meeting " in some ways a breakthrough " and said she was " very optimistic " the process was making a difference .
obama announced a new approach to the fight against al qaeda in both countries in late march , offering more aid but also more than 20,000 extra troops to afghanistan this year .
pakistan 's zardari , who has been under fierce criticism for his response to taliban militants who have made inroads in the swat and buner valleys this year , pleaded for support for his fledgling democracy .
" my democracy needs attention and needs nurturing , " zardari said .
" pakistani democracy will deliver , the terrorists will be defeated by our joint struggle .
me , my friend president karzai and the united states ... will stand shoulder to shoulder with the world to fight this cancer and this threat . "
the pakistan government recently launched a major military offensive following pressure from the us to stop the advance of extremists in the region .
the islamist taliban says the offensive violates a peace deal it made with islamabad , which allowed the introduction of shariah law in the swat valley in exchange for a ceasefire .
on wednesday , pakistani security forces attacked taliban fighters in the swat valley , killing at least 64 of them after the united states called on the government to show its commitment to fighting militancy .
but the growing taliban influence in north-western pakistan has raised international concerns over the stability of the nuclear-armed country .
meanwhile in berlin , pakistani defence minister chaudry ahmad mukhtar has met with his german counterpart franz josef jung and asked for international help .
mukhtar said pakistan did not have the capacity to fight what he described as a " guerrilla war " in the north-west of the country . nrt , nk dpa / reuters / ap send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de obama to up pressure on , offer incentives to pakistan and afghanistan money for security - that 's the deal that us president barack obama is to offer his pakistani and afghan counterparts on wednesday .
a former german ambassador to pakistan talks us through a potentially historic meeting .
-lrb- 05.05.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic pakistani defence minister visits germany us president barack obama unveils a new afghan war strategy 07 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
in depth focus on libya dw-world looks at the turmoil in libya : what it means for tripoli and the rest of the world .
cairo clashes cairo 's tahrir square is back in the headlines after violent clashes between protesters and police .
watch the video podcast series college grad leom left a modern life in cambodia 's capital to bring knowledge to a remote village .
download the report subscribe to the series on itunes past episodes international conference media representatives around the world gather in bonn to discuss human rights .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
steinmeier urges israeli counterpart to accept two-state plan -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 11.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de israel -pipe- 07.05.2009 steinmeier urges israeli counterpart to accept two-state plan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lieberman has been making his first official visit to berlin while in berlin , israel 's foreign minister has left a cloud over the mideast peace process , calling it a waste of money . israeli foreign minister avigdor lieberman has left german parliamentarians pessimistic about the future of the middle east peace process .
in berlin , the last stop of his four-day european tour , the right-wing minister refused to commit to a two-state solution for israel and the palestinian territories .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lieberman -lrb- right -rrb- with ruprecht polenz , chairman of the foreign affairs committee during talks with members of the german parliamentary foreign affairs committee lieberman said the peace process had been little more than a waste of money .
he also brought up iran , saying the country was a major threat .
later in the day , lieberman paid his respects at berlin 's holocaust memorial , laying a wreath at the 19,000-square-meter monument in the center of berlin .
lieberman later held talks with german interior minister wolfgang schaeuble , followed by dinner with his german counterpart frank-walter steinmeier .
germany 's top diplomat urged the controversial israeli foreign minister to adopt a two-state plan as the basis for peace in the middle east and the " sole path to peace and security . "
steinmeier emphasized that the german government expected the new israeli administration under prime minister benjamin netanyahu would abide with previous peace commitments .
the german minister said it was important to stregthen moderate forces in the region and actively involve them in the peace process .
with regard to the situation in the gaza strip , steinmeier said it was imperative that palestinians had access to aid supplies .
the israeli foreign minister , who heads a nationalist party in prime minister benjamin netanyahu 's coalition , caused a stir on his first day in office , when he announced that israel was no longer bound by the so-called annapolis peace process , which formed the basis of the israeli-palestinian peace talks in 2008 .
lieberman 's european visit - which has included meetings in rome , paris and european union talks in prague - was mostly conducted out of the media eye .
in berlin , no joint press conference or photo call was scheduled for his meeting with steinmeier .
this echoed lieberman 's reception in france , where foreign minister bernard kouchner chose not to hold a joint press conference as had been customary when lieberman 's predecessor tzipi livni came to paris . ch / pfd / nrt , rtr / dpa / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de merkel says " no alternative " to two-state solution in middle east german chancellor angela merkel has said there is no alternative to a two-state solution to the mideast crisis following talks in berlin on wednesday with jordan 's king abdullah ii .
-lrb- 06.05.2009 -rrb- netanyahu demands that palestinians recognize israel as jewish state israeli prime minister benjamin netanyahu has demanded palestinians recognize israel as a jewish state .
the call was made during his meeting with the visiting us special envoy to the middle east , george mitchell .
-lrb- 16.04.2009 -rrb- opinion : labour decision to join likud harms hopes for peace israeli labour party head ehud barack 's decision to take part in a government led by hardliner benjamin netanyahu is a disservice to the labour party and , more importantly , to hopes for peace , writes dw 's peter philipp .
-lrb- 25.03.2009 -rrb- 07 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live discover germany - the tv travel guide we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live concert hour early music days in regensburg -lrb- 1 -rrb- listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
art german photographer lala aufsberg 's work is a fascinating historical record of the 20th century .
watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
obama wins pledge from afghan , pakistani leaders to confront militants -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 07.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de diplomacy -pipe- 07.05.2009 obama wins pledge from afghan , pakistani leaders to confront militants großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : obama warned of more violence in pakistan and afghanistan at the three-way summit president barack obama won a fresh promise from the leaders of pakistan and afghanistan on wednesday to work together to defeat al qaeda , and vowed he would make " every effort " to avoid civilian deaths . afghanistan 's hamid karzai and pakistan 's asif ali zardari came to washington after heavy criticism of their efforts to combat a taliban resurgence in their countries .
after their talks obama said both men " fully appreciate the seriousness of the threat " posed by al qaeda and their allies .
" the road ahead will be difficult .
there will be more violence and there will be setbacks , " obama said , with karzai and zardari at his side in the grand foyer of the white house .
" but let me be clear - the united states has not only made a lasting commitment to defeat al qaeda but also to support the democratically elected sovereign governments of both pakistan and afghanistan .
that commitment will not waiver and that support will be sustained . "
the obama administration has sharply criticized both karzai and zardari in the past , questioning their commitment and capability to tackle the threat from al qaeda and the taliban .
civilian casualties caused by us military operations in both countries , including drone strikes inside pakistan , have infuriated many afghans and pakistanis and made it harder for both countries ' leaders to cooperate with the united states .
military action earlier this week is believed to have caused dozens of civilian deaths with regional lawmakers and the international committee of the red cross reporting that as many as 100 people may have died in an operation in the bala boluk district of farah province in western afghanistan .
" we deeply , deeply regret that loss , " us secretary of state hillary clinton said of the civilian deaths before meeting karzai and zardari .
later she called that meeting " in some ways a breakthrough " and said she was " very optimistic " the process was making a difference .
obama announced a new approach to the fight against al qaeda in both countries in late march , offering more aid but also more than 20,000 extra troops to afghanistan this year .
pakistan 's zardari , who has been under fierce criticism for his response to taliban militants who have made inroads in the swat and buner valleys this year , pleaded for support for his fledgling democracy .
" my democracy needs attention and needs nurturing , " zardari said .
" pakistani democracy will deliver , the terrorists will be defeated by our joint struggle .
me , my friend president karzai and the united states ... will stand shoulder to shoulder with the world to fight this cancer and this threat . "
the pakistan government recently launched a major military offensive following pressure from the us to stop the advance of extremists in the region .
the islamist taliban says the offensive violates a peace deal it made with islamabad , which allowed the introduction of shariah law in the swat valley in exchange for a ceasefire .
on wednesday , pakistani security forces attacked taliban fighters in the swat valley , killing at least 64 of them after the united states called on the government to show its commitment to fighting militancy .
but the growing taliban influence in north-western pakistan has raised international concerns over the stability of the nuclear-armed country .
meanwhile in berlin , pakistani defence minister chaudry ahmad mukhtar has met with his german counterpart franz josef jung and asked for international help .
mukhtar said pakistan did not have the capacity to fight what he described as a " guerrilla war " in the north-west of the country . nrt , nk dpa / reuters / ap send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de obama to up pressure on , offer incentives to pakistan and afghanistan money for security - that 's the deal that us president barack obama is to offer his pakistani and afghan counterparts on wednesday .
a former german ambassador to pakistan talks us through a potentially historic meeting .
-lrb- 05.05.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic pakistani defence minister visits germany us president barack obama unveils a new afghan war strategy 07 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
podcast series kades , from one of nairobi 's largest slums , plays djb in shujaaz , a weekly radio show .
download the podcast international conference media representatives around the world gather in bonn to discuss human rights .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
suspected war criminal loses us court appeal to stop deportation -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 28.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de world war ii -pipe- 07.05.2009 suspected war criminal loses us court appeal to stop deportation großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : john demjanjuk appears to be losing legal battle against deportation to germany a us supreme court judge has said he will not block the alleged nazi death camp guard john demjanjuk 's deportation to germany to face a war crimes trial . the 89-year-old demjanjuk claims he is too ill to fly to germany .
he is accused of being a guard at the sobibor extermination camp during world war ii and of being an accessory to the murder of some 29,000 jews .
demjanjuk , who is ukrainian born , denies the charges , saying he was captured by the nazis and then kept as a prisoner of war .
german authorities allege that demjanjuk , then 23 , worked from march-september 1943 as a guard in nazi-occupied poland at the sobibor concentration camp .
prosecutors in munich issued an arrest warrant for him in march .
the us supreme court move was seen as one of the last ways to prevent his being taken to germany .
however , under court rules , his lawyers may still submit applications for a stay to the court 's other eight justices .
the lower court had dismissed arguments by demjanjuk 's lawyer that transporting him to germany would pose an undue risk to his health .
it accepted us government assurances that he would receive sufficient medical care during the trip .
the us justice department said it would continue to work with the german government on demjanjuk 's removal , but a spokeswoman could not provide details about the timing of a possible deportation .
a german tribunal earlier on thursday ruled that the german government is under no duty to oppose demjanjuk 's expulsion from us soil to germany .
following world war ii , demjanjuk lived in germany as a refugee until 1952 when he changed his first name from ivan to john and moved to the united states .
demjanjuk was acquitted in 1993 by the israeli supreme court of charges that he worked at a different death camp , treblinka , saving him from the death sentence of a lower court in israel .
but when he returned to the us , he was stripped of his us citizenship . nrt , mh dpa / reuters / ap send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ? radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
in depth focus on libya dw-world looks at the turmoil in libya : what it means for tripoli and the rest of the world .
podcast series lotta from finland combines her passions for gymnastics and volunteering .
download the report subscribe to the series on itunes past episodes international conference media representatives around the world gather in bonn to discuss human rights .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
suspected war criminal loses us court appeal to stop deportation -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 24.10.2010 home news germany europe world from tierra del fuego to tijuana asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de world war ii -pipe- 07.05.2009 suspected war criminal loses us court appeal to stop deportation großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : john demjanjuk appears to be losing legal battle against deportation to germany a us supreme court judge has said he will not block the alleged nazi death camp guard john demjanjuk 's deportation to germany to face a war crimes trial . the 89-year-old demjanjuk claims he is too ill to fly to germany .
he is accused of being a guard at the sobibor extermination camp during world war ii and of being an accessory to the murder of some 29,000 jews .
demjanjuk , who is ukrainian born , denies the charges , saying he was captured by the nazis and then kept as a prisoner of war .
german authorities allege that demjanjuk , then 23 , worked from march-september 1943 as a guard in nazi-occupied poland at the sobibor concentration camp .
prosecutors in munich issued an arrest warrant for him in march .
the us supreme court move was seen as one of the last ways to prevent his being taken to germany .
however , under court rules , his lawyers may still submit applications for a stay to the court 's other eight justices .
the lower court had dismissed arguments by demjanjuk 's lawyer that transporting him to germany would pose an undue risk to his health .
it accepted us government assurances that he would receive sufficient medical care during the trip .
the us justice department said it would continue to work with the german government on demjanjuk 's removal , but a spokeswoman could not provide details about the timing of a possible deportation .
a german tribunal earlier on thursday ruled that the german government is under no duty to oppose demjanjuk 's expulsion from us soil to germany .
following world war ii , demjanjuk lived in germany as a refugee until 1952 when he changed his first name from ivan to john and moved to the united states .
demjanjuk was acquitted in 1993 by the israeli supreme court of charges that he worked at a different death camp , treblinka , saving him from the death sentence of a lower court in israel .
but when he returned to the us , he was stripped of his us citizenship . nrt , mh dpa / reuters / ap send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live radio d listen live new nato a meeting between chancellor merkel and nato chief rasmussen focussed on the future of the alliance .
watch the video learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan new web site check out deutsche welle 's new asia page in english .
dw asia online news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's newest media partner latin america take a multimedia journey discover the region and its people © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
suspected war criminal loses us court appeal to stop deportation -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 05.12.2010 home news germany europe world from tierra del fuego to tijuana asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de world war ii -pipe- 07.05.2009 suspected war criminal loses us court appeal to stop deportation großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : john demjanjuk appears to be losing legal battle against deportation to germany a us supreme court judge has said he will not block the alleged nazi death camp guard john demjanjuk 's deportation to germany to face a war crimes trial . the 89-year-old demjanjuk claims he is too ill to fly to germany .
he is accused of being a guard at the sobibor extermination camp during world war ii and of being an accessory to the murder of some 29,000 jews .
demjanjuk , who is ukrainian born , denies the charges , saying he was captured by the nazis and then kept as a prisoner of war .
german authorities allege that demjanjuk , then 23 , worked from march-september 1943 as a guard in nazi-occupied poland at the sobibor concentration camp .
prosecutors in munich issued an arrest warrant for him in march .
the us supreme court move was seen as one of the last ways to prevent his being taken to germany .
however , under court rules , his lawyers may still submit applications for a stay to the court 's other eight justices .
the lower court had dismissed arguments by demjanjuk 's lawyer that transporting him to germany would pose an undue risk to his health .
it accepted us government assurances that he would receive sufficient medical care during the trip .
the us justice department said it would continue to work with the german government on demjanjuk 's removal , but a spokeswoman could not provide details about the timing of a possible deportation .
a german tribunal earlier on thursday ruled that the german government is under no duty to oppose demjanjuk 's expulsion from us soil to germany .
following world war ii , demjanjuk lived in germany as a refugee until 1952 when he changed his first name from ivan to john and moved to the united states .
demjanjuk was acquitted in 1993 by the israeli supreme court of charges that he worked at a different death camp , treblinka , saving him from the death sentence of a lower court in israel .
but when he returned to the us , he was stripped of his us citizenship . nrt , mh dpa / reuters / ap send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
bundeswehr how well-prepared will the new-look bundeswehr be for the challenges of the 21st century ?
watch the video learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan new web site check out deutsche welle 's new asia page in english .
dw asia online latin america take a multimedia journey discover the region and its people news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's newest media partner © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
suspected war criminal loses us court appeal to stop deportation -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de world war ii -pipe- 07.05.2009 suspected war criminal loses us court appeal to stop deportation großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : john demjanjuk appears to be losing legal battle against deportation to germany a us supreme court judge has said he will not block the alleged nazi death camp guard john demjanjuk 's deportation to germany to face a war crimes trial . the 89-year-old demjanjuk claims he is too ill to fly to germany .
he is accused of being a guard at the sobibor extermination camp during world war ii and of being an accessory to the murder of some 29,000 jews .
demjanjuk , who is ukrainian born , denies the charges , saying he was captured by the nazis and then kept as a prisoner of war .
german authorities allege that demjanjuk , then 23 , worked from march-september 1943 as a guard in nazi-occupied poland at the sobibor concentration camp .
prosecutors in munich issued an arrest warrant for him in march .
the us supreme court move was seen as one of the last ways to prevent his being taken to germany .
however , under court rules , his lawyers may still submit applications for a stay to the court 's other eight justices .
the lower court had dismissed arguments by demjanjuk 's lawyer that transporting him to germany would pose an undue risk to his health .
it accepted us government assurances that he would receive sufficient medical care during the trip .
the us justice department said it would continue to work with the german government on demjanjuk 's removal , but a spokeswoman could not provide details about the timing of a possible deportation .
a german tribunal earlier on thursday ruled that the german government is under no duty to oppose demjanjuk 's expulsion from us soil to germany .
following world war ii , demjanjuk lived in germany as a refugee until 1952 when he changed his first name from ivan to john and moved to the united states .
demjanjuk was acquitted in 1993 by the israeli supreme court of charges that he worked at a different death camp , treblinka , saving him from the death sentence of a lower court in israel .
but when he returned to the us , he was stripped of his us citizenship . nrt , mh dpa / reuters / ap send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ? radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
transatlantic relations obama in europe two years after president obama 's first european visit , the transatlantic ties remain strong .
in depth al qaeda 's future deutsche welle takes a closer look at osama bin laden and the terrorist network he spearheaded .
podcast series roxy cruz from east la found a passion for the environment while working with farmers in nepal .
listen to the report subscribe to the series on itunes past episodes international conference media representatives around the world gather in bonn to discuss human rights .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
suspected war criminal loses us court appeal to stop deportation -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 16.09.2010 home news germany europe world from tierra del fuego to tijuana asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de world war ii -pipe- 07.05.2009 suspected war criminal loses us court appeal to stop deportation großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : john demjanjuk appears to be losing legal battle against deportation to germany a us supreme court judge has said he will not block the alleged nazi death camp guard john demjanjuk 's deportation to germany to face a war crimes trial . the 89-year-old demjanjuk claims he is too ill to fly to germany .
he is accused of being a guard at the sobibor extermination camp during world war ii and of being an accessory to the murder of some 29,000 jews .
demjanjuk , who is ukrainian born , denies the charges , saying he was captured by the nazis and then kept as a prisoner of war .
german authorities allege that demjanjuk , then 23 , worked from march-september 1943 as a guard in nazi-occupied poland at the sobibor concentration camp .
prosecutors in munich issued an arrest warrant for him in march .
the us supreme court move was seen as one of the last ways to prevent his being taken to germany .
however , under court rules , his lawyers may still submit applications for a stay to the court 's other eight justices .
the lower court had dismissed arguments by demjanjuk 's lawyer that transporting him to germany would pose an undue risk to his health .
it accepted us government assurances that he would receive sufficient medical care during the trip .
the us justice department said it would continue to work with the german government on demjanjuk 's removal , but a spokeswoman could not provide details about the timing of a possible deportation .
a german tribunal earlier on thursday ruled that the german government is under no duty to oppose demjanjuk 's expulsion from us soil to germany .
following world war ii , demjanjuk lived in germany as a refugee until 1952 when he changed his first name from ivan to john and moved to the united states .
demjanjuk was acquitted in 1993 by the israeli supreme court of charges that he worked at a different death camp , treblinka , saving him from the death sentence of a lower court in israel .
but when he returned to the us , he was stripped of his us citizenship . nrt , mh dpa / reuters / ap send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live im focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live arts on the air listen live peace talks neither side at the middle east talks is showing it will move forward quickly towards an agreement .
watch the video afghan elections the us commander in afghanistan , general petraeus , wants more nato troops ahead of elections .
watch the video learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan new web site check out deutsche welle 's new asia page in english .
dw asia online news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's newest media partner latin america take a multimedia journey discover the region and its people © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german industrial orders make surprise jump -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 29.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de business -pipe- 07.05.2009 german industrial orders make surprise jump großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : daimler truck factory in woerth - demand for german manufactured goods is up german industrial orders in march showed their first rise for six months , on the back of an increase in orders from abroad . preliminary government figures show that german industrial orders grew an unexpected 3.3 percent in march , driven by an increase in demand from abroad .
the rise - economists had expected a moderate fall for the world 's top exporter - is the first piece of hard data to back up the government 's prediction that the economy is set to grow slightly in 2010 .
the german economy is expected to experience negative growth of around six percent this year .
germany 's economics ministry said the seasonally adjusted rise did not even begin to make up for recent months , with orders for goods falling by 14.5 percent in the first quarter .
the ministry said , though , that the latest numbers showed the trend had changed .
the march increase compared with a 3.1 percent drop in february ; and was largely due to a 5.6 percent increase in orders from abroad .
domestic orders also grew by just over one percent .
the month-on-month climb in march was stronger than expected and indicated that europe 's biggest economy may already be on the rebound from the worst effects of the global recession .
however , the european commission slashed its economic projections on monday , saying europe 's economy would shrink by four per cent this year .
that 's double the figure that it predicted at the start of the year . ch / pfd , rtr / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german business confidence falls ; economists say turnaround near business confidence in europe 's largest economy has reached an all time low , but according to some economists , things could level out and even rebound in the coming months .
-lrb- 26.03.2009 -rrb- europe to lose 3.5 million jobs in 2009 , study says a new study by the eu commission says that jobless rolls in the european union will swell by a further 3.5 million this year as the global economic slowdown batters labor markets across europe .
-lrb- 18.02.2009 -rrb- airbus warns of " horrible " year ahead european aircraft manufacturing giant airbus expects a dismal year with orders plummeting as the global economic crisis hits the aviation industry .
-lrb- 15.01.2009 -rrb- radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - news with in depth we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive. tourism germany 's north sea coast boasts some of the longest and most attractive beaches in europe .
watch the video dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
suspected war criminal loses us court appeal to stop deportation -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 30.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de world war ii -pipe- 07.05.2009 suspected war criminal loses us court appeal to stop deportation großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : john demjanjuk appears to be losing legal battle against deportation to germany a us supreme court judge has said he will not block the alleged nazi death camp guard john demjanjuk 's deportation to germany to face a war crimes trial . the 89-year-old demjanjuk claims he is too ill to fly to germany .
he is accused of being a guard at the sobibor extermination camp during world war ii and of being an accessory to the murder of some 29,000 jews .
demjanjuk , who is ukrainian born , denies the charges , saying he was captured by the nazis and then kept as a prisoner of war .
german authorities allege that demjanjuk , then 23 , worked from march-september 1943 as a guard in nazi-occupied poland at the sobibor concentration camp .
prosecutors in munich issued an arrest warrant for him in march .
the us supreme court move was seen as one of the last ways to prevent his being taken to germany .
however , under court rules , his lawyers may still submit applications for a stay to the court 's other eight justices .
the lower court had dismissed arguments by demjanjuk 's lawyer that transporting him to germany would pose an undue risk to his health .
it accepted us government assurances that he would receive sufficient medical care during the trip .
the us justice department said it would continue to work with the german government on demjanjuk 's removal , but a spokeswoman could not provide details about the timing of a possible deportation .
a german tribunal earlier on thursday ruled that the german government is under no duty to oppose demjanjuk 's expulsion from us soil to germany .
following world war ii , demjanjuk lived in germany as a refugee until 1952 when he changed his first name from ivan to john and moved to the united states .
demjanjuk was acquitted in 1993 by the israeli supreme court of charges that he worked at a different death camp , treblinka , saving him from the death sentence of a lower court in israel .
but when he returned to the us , he was stripped of his us citizenship . nrt , mh dpa / reuters / ap send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ? radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
south asia regional cooperation is making little progress in the strategically important region .
listen to the report in depth focus on libya dw-world looks at the turmoil in libya : what it means for tripoli and the rest of the world .
podcast series a berlin designer prompts thought about waste by turning trash , like used teabags , into treasures .
download the report subscribe to the series on itunes past episodes climate change check out deutsche welle 's multimedia coverage of people and projects combating climate change .
the global ideas page learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german industrial orders make surprise jump -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de business -pipe- 07.05.2009 german industrial orders make surprise jump großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : daimler truck factory in woerth - demand for german manufactured goods is up german industrial orders in march showed their first rise for six months , on the back of an increase in orders from abroad . preliminary government figures show that german industrial orders grew an unexpected 3.3 percent in march , driven by an increase in demand from abroad .
the rise - economists had expected a moderate fall for the world 's top exporter - is the first piece of hard data to back up the government 's prediction that the economy is set to grow slightly in 2010 .
the german economy is expected to experience negative growth of around six percent this year .
germany 's economics ministry said the seasonally adjusted rise did not even begin to make up for recent months , with orders for goods falling by 14.5 percent in the first quarter .
the ministry said , though , that the latest numbers showed the trend had changed .
the march increase compared with a 3.1 percent drop in february ; and was largely due to a 5.6 percent increase in orders from abroad .
domestic orders also grew by just over one percent .
the month-on-month climb in march was stronger than expected and indicated that europe 's biggest economy may already be on the rebound from the worst effects of the global recession .
however , the european commission slashed its economic projections on monday , saying europe 's economy would shrink by four per cent this year .
that 's double the figure that it predicted at the start of the year . ch / pfd , rtr / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german business confidence falls ; economists say turnaround near business confidence in europe 's largest economy has reached an all time low , but according to some economists , things could level out and even rebound in the coming months .
-lrb- 26.03.2009 -rrb- europe to lose 3.5 million jobs in 2009 , study says a new study by the eu commission says that jobless rolls in the european union will swell by a further 3.5 million this year as the global economic slowdown batters labor markets across europe .
-lrb- 18.02.2009 -rrb- airbus warns of " horrible " year ahead european aircraft manufacturing giant airbus expects a dismal year with orders plummeting as the global economic crisis hits the aviation industry .
-lrb- 15.01.2009 -rrb- radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - news with in depth we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live concert hour schwetzingen festival -lrb- 1 -rrb- listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
art german photographer lala aufsberg 's work is a fascinating historical record of the 20th century .
watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german industrial orders make surprise jump -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 11.09.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de business -pipe- 07.05.2009 german industrial orders make surprise jump großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : daimler truck factory in woerth - demand for german manufactured goods is up german industrial orders in march showed their first rise for six months , on the back of an increase in orders from abroad . preliminary government figures show that german industrial orders grew an unexpected 3.3 percent in march , driven by an increase in demand from abroad .
the rise - economists had expected a moderate fall for the world 's top exporter - is the first piece of hard data to back up the government 's prediction that the economy is set to grow slightly in 2010 .
the german economy is expected to experience negative growth of around six percent this year .
germany 's economics ministry said the seasonally adjusted rise did not even begin to make up for recent months , with orders for goods falling by 14.5 percent in the first quarter .
the ministry said , though , that the latest numbers showed the trend had changed .
the march increase compared with a 3.1 percent drop in february ; and was largely due to a 5.6 percent increase in orders from abroad .
domestic orders also grew by just over one percent .
the month-on-month climb in march was stronger than expected and indicated that europe 's biggest economy may already be on the rebound from the worst effects of the global recession .
however , the european commission slashed its economic projections on monday , saying europe 's economy would shrink by four per cent this year .
that 's double the figure that it predicted at the start of the year . ch / pfd , rtr / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german business confidence falls ; economists say turnaround near business confidence in europe 's largest economy has reached an all time low , but according to some economists , things could level out and even rebound in the coming months .
-lrb- 26.03.2009 -rrb- europe to lose 3.5 million jobs in 2009 , study says a new study by the eu commission says that jobless rolls in the european union will swell by a further 3.5 million this year as the global economic slowdown batters labor markets across europe .
-lrb- 18.02.2009 -rrb- airbus warns of " horrible " year ahead european aircraft manufacturing giant airbus expects a dismal year with orders plummeting as the global economic crisis hits the aviation industry .
-lrb- 15.01.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live popxport we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german industrial orders make surprise jump -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 26.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de business -pipe- 07.05.2009 german industrial orders make surprise jump großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : daimler truck factory in woerth - demand for german manufactured goods is up german industrial orders in march showed their first rise for six months , on the back of an increase in orders from abroad . preliminary government figures show that german industrial orders grew an unexpected 3.3 percent in march , driven by an increase in demand from abroad .
the rise - economists had expected a moderate fall for the world 's top exporter - is the first piece of hard data to back up the government 's prediction that the economy is set to grow slightly in 2010 .
the german economy is expected to experience negative growth of around six percent this year .
germany 's economics ministry said the seasonally adjusted rise did not even begin to make up for recent months , with orders for goods falling by 14.5 percent in the first quarter .
the ministry said , though , that the latest numbers showed the trend had changed .
the march increase compared with a 3.1 percent drop in february ; and was largely due to a 5.6 percent increase in orders from abroad .
domestic orders also grew by just over one percent .
the month-on-month climb in march was stronger than expected and indicated that europe 's biggest economy may already be on the rebound from the worst effects of the global recession .
however , the european commission slashed its economic projections on monday , saying europe 's economy would shrink by four per cent this year .
that 's double the figure that it predicted at the start of the year . ch / pfd , rtr / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german business confidence falls ; economists say turnaround near business confidence in europe 's largest economy has reached an all time low , but according to some economists , things could level out and even rebound in the coming months .
-lrb- 26.03.2009 -rrb- europe to lose 3.5 million jobs in 2009 , study says a new study by the eu commission says that jobless rolls in the european union will swell by a further 3.5 million this year as the global economic slowdown batters labor markets across europe .
-lrb- 18.02.2009 -rrb- airbus warns of " horrible " year ahead european aircraft manufacturing giant airbus expects a dismal year with orders plummeting as the global economic crisis hits the aviation industry .
-lrb- 15.01.2009 -rrb- radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live arts on the air vienna ’ s annual cultural festival listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
animals wild boars with hearty appetites are proving problematic in berlin , where food is plentiful .
listen to the audio feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german industrial orders make surprise jump -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 04.12.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de business -pipe- 07.05.2009 german industrial orders make surprise jump großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : daimler truck factory in woerth - demand for german manufactured goods is up german industrial orders in march showed their first rise for six months , on the back of an increase in orders from abroad . preliminary government figures show that german industrial orders grew an unexpected 3.3 percent in march , driven by an increase in demand from abroad .
the rise - economists had expected a moderate fall for the world 's top exporter - is the first piece of hard data to back up the government 's prediction that the economy is set to grow slightly in 2010 .
the german economy is expected to experience negative growth of around six percent this year .
germany 's economics ministry said the seasonally adjusted rise did not even begin to make up for recent months , with orders for goods falling by 14.5 percent in the first quarter .
the ministry said , though , that the latest numbers showed the trend had changed .
the march increase compared with a 3.1 percent drop in february ; and was largely due to a 5.6 percent increase in orders from abroad .
domestic orders also grew by just over one percent .
the month-on-month climb in march was stronger than expected and indicated that europe 's biggest economy may already be on the rebound from the worst effects of the global recession .
however , the european commission slashed its economic projections on monday , saying europe 's economy would shrink by four per cent this year .
that 's double the figure that it predicted at the start of the year . ch / pfd , rtr / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german business confidence falls ; economists say turnaround near business confidence in europe 's largest economy has reached an all time low , but according to some economists , things could level out and even rebound in the coming months .
-lrb- 26.03.2009 -rrb- europe to lose 3.5 million jobs in 2009 , study says a new study by the eu commission says that jobless rolls in the european union will swell by a further 3.5 million this year as the global economic slowdown batters labor markets across europe .
-lrb- 18.02.2009 -rrb- airbus warns of " horrible " year ahead european aircraft manufacturing giant airbus expects a dismal year with orders plummeting as the global economic crisis hits the aviation industry .
-lrb- 15.01.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live in focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inside europe listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
travel passau is called the three river city , but it is just as famous for its baroque splendor .
passau - baroque facades and vibrant arts watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german industrial orders make surprise jump -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 23.10.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de business -pipe- 07.05.2009 german industrial orders make surprise jump großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : daimler truck factory in woerth - demand for german manufactured goods is up german industrial orders in march showed their first rise for six months , on the back of an increase in orders from abroad . preliminary government figures show that german industrial orders grew an unexpected 3.3 percent in march , driven by an increase in demand from abroad .
the rise - economists had expected a moderate fall for the world 's top exporter - is the first piece of hard data to back up the government 's prediction that the economy is set to grow slightly in 2010 .
the german economy is expected to experience negative growth of around six percent this year .
germany 's economics ministry said the seasonally adjusted rise did not even begin to make up for recent months , with orders for goods falling by 14.5 percent in the first quarter .
the ministry said , though , that the latest numbers showed the trend had changed .
the march increase compared with a 3.1 percent drop in february ; and was largely due to a 5.6 percent increase in orders from abroad .
domestic orders also grew by just over one percent .
the month-on-month climb in march was stronger than expected and indicated that europe 's biggest economy may already be on the rebound from the worst effects of the global recession .
however , the european commission slashed its economic projections on monday , saying europe 's economy would shrink by four per cent this year .
that 's double the figure that it predicted at the start of the year . ch / pfd , rtr / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german business confidence falls ; economists say turnaround near business confidence in europe 's largest economy has reached an all time low , but according to some economists , things could level out and even rebound in the coming months .
-lrb- 26.03.2009 -rrb- europe to lose 3.5 million jobs in 2009 , study says a new study by the eu commission says that jobless rolls in the european union will swell by a further 3.5 million this year as the global economic slowdown batters labor markets across europe .
-lrb- 18.02.2009 -rrb- airbus warns of " horrible " year ahead european aircraft manufacturing giant airbus expects a dismal year with orders plummeting as the global economic crisis hits the aviation industry .
-lrb- 15.01.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inside europe listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
steinmeier urges israeli counterpart to accept two-state plan -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 06.10.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de israel -pipe- 07.05.2009 steinmeier urges israeli counterpart to accept two-state plan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lieberman has been making his first official visit to berlin while in berlin , israel 's foreign minister has left a cloud over the mideast peace process , calling it a waste of money . israeli foreign minister avigdor lieberman has left german parliamentarians pessimistic about the future of the middle east peace process .
in berlin , the last stop of his four-day european tour , the right-wing minister refused to commit to a two-state solution for israel and the palestinian territories .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lieberman -lrb- right -rrb- with ruprecht polenz , chairman of the foreign affairs committee during talks with members of the german parliamentary foreign affairs committee lieberman said the peace process had been little more than a waste of money .
he also brought up iran , saying the country was a major threat .
later in the day , lieberman paid his respects at berlin 's holocaust memorial , laying a wreath at the 19,000-square-meter monument in the center of berlin .
lieberman later held talks with german interior minister wolfgang schaeuble , followed by dinner with his german counterpart frank-walter steinmeier .
germany 's top diplomat urged the controversial israeli foreign minister to adopt a two-state plan as the basis for peace in the middle east and the " sole path to peace and security . "
steinmeier emphasized that the german government expected the new israeli administration under prime minister benjamin netanyahu would abide with previous peace commitments .
the german minister said it was important to stregthen moderate forces in the region and actively involve them in the peace process .
with regard to the situation in the gaza strip , steinmeier said it was imperative that palestinians had access to aid supplies .
the israeli foreign minister , who heads a nationalist party in prime minister benjamin netanyahu 's coalition , caused a stir on his first day in office , when he announced that israel was no longer bound by the so-called annapolis peace process , which formed the basis of the israeli-palestinian peace talks in 2008 .
lieberman 's european visit - which has included meetings in rome , paris and european union talks in prague - was mostly conducted out of the media eye .
in berlin , no joint press conference or photo call was scheduled for his meeting with steinmeier .
this echoed lieberman 's reception in france , where foreign minister bernard kouchner chose not to hold a joint press conference as had been customary when lieberman 's predecessor tzipi livni came to paris . ch / pfd / nrt , rtr / dpa / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de merkel says " no alternative " to two-state solution in middle east german chancellor angela merkel has said there is no alternative to a two-state solution to the mideast crisis following talks in berlin on wednesday with jordan 's king abdullah ii .
-lrb- 06.05.2009 -rrb- netanyahu demands that palestinians recognize israel as jewish state israeli prime minister benjamin netanyahu has demanded palestinians recognize israel as a jewish state .
the call was made during his meeting with the visiting us special envoy to the middle east , george mitchell .
-lrb- 16.04.2009 -rrb- opinion : labour decision to join likud harms hopes for peace israeli labour party head ehud barack 's decision to take part in a government led by hardliner benjamin netanyahu is a disservice to the labour party and , more importantly , to hopes for peace , writes dw 's peter philipp .
-lrb- 25.03.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
steinmeier urges israeli counterpart to accept two-state plan -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 04.12.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de israel -pipe- 07.05.2009 steinmeier urges israeli counterpart to accept two-state plan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lieberman has been making his first official visit to berlin while in berlin , israel 's foreign minister has left a cloud over the mideast peace process , calling it a waste of money . israeli foreign minister avigdor lieberman has left german parliamentarians pessimistic about the future of the middle east peace process .
in berlin , the last stop of his four-day european tour , the right-wing minister refused to commit to a two-state solution for israel and the palestinian territories .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lieberman -lrb- right -rrb- with ruprecht polenz , chairman of the foreign affairs committee during talks with members of the german parliamentary foreign affairs committee lieberman said the peace process had been little more than a waste of money .
he also brought up iran , saying the country was a major threat .
later in the day , lieberman paid his respects at berlin 's holocaust memorial , laying a wreath at the 19,000-square-meter monument in the center of berlin .
lieberman later held talks with german interior minister wolfgang schaeuble , followed by dinner with his german counterpart frank-walter steinmeier .
germany 's top diplomat urged the controversial israeli foreign minister to adopt a two-state plan as the basis for peace in the middle east and the " sole path to peace and security . "
steinmeier emphasized that the german government expected the new israeli administration under prime minister benjamin netanyahu would abide with previous peace commitments .
the german minister said it was important to stregthen moderate forces in the region and actively involve them in the peace process .
with regard to the situation in the gaza strip , steinmeier said it was imperative that palestinians had access to aid supplies .
the israeli foreign minister , who heads a nationalist party in prime minister benjamin netanyahu 's coalition , caused a stir on his first day in office , when he announced that israel was no longer bound by the so-called annapolis peace process , which formed the basis of the israeli-palestinian peace talks in 2008 .
lieberman 's european visit - which has included meetings in rome , paris and european union talks in prague - was mostly conducted out of the media eye .
in berlin , no joint press conference or photo call was scheduled for his meeting with steinmeier .
this echoed lieberman 's reception in france , where foreign minister bernard kouchner chose not to hold a joint press conference as had been customary when lieberman 's predecessor tzipi livni came to paris . ch / pfd / nrt , rtr / dpa / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de merkel says " no alternative " to two-state solution in middle east german chancellor angela merkel has said there is no alternative to a two-state solution to the mideast crisis following talks in berlin on wednesday with jordan 's king abdullah ii .
-lrb- 06.05.2009 -rrb- netanyahu demands that palestinians recognize israel as jewish state israeli prime minister benjamin netanyahu has demanded palestinians recognize israel as a jewish state .
the call was made during his meeting with the visiting us special envoy to the middle east , george mitchell .
-lrb- 16.04.2009 -rrb- opinion : labour decision to join likud harms hopes for peace israeli labour party head ehud barack 's decision to take part in a government led by hardliner benjamin netanyahu is a disservice to the labour party and , more importantly , to hopes for peace , writes dw 's peter philipp .
-lrb- 25.03.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live im focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
travel passau is called the three river city , but it is just as famous for its baroque splendor .
passau - baroque facades and vibrant arts watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
steinmeier urges israeli counterpart to accept two-state plan -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 26.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de israel -pipe- 07.05.2009 steinmeier urges israeli counterpart to accept two-state plan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lieberman has been making his first official visit to berlin while in berlin , israel 's foreign minister has left a cloud over the mideast peace process , calling it a waste of money . israeli foreign minister avigdor lieberman has left german parliamentarians pessimistic about the future of the middle east peace process .
in berlin , the last stop of his four-day european tour , the right-wing minister refused to commit to a two-state solution for israel and the palestinian territories .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lieberman -lrb- right -rrb- with ruprecht polenz , chairman of the foreign affairs committee during talks with members of the german parliamentary foreign affairs committee lieberman said the peace process had been little more than a waste of money .
he also brought up iran , saying the country was a major threat .
later in the day , lieberman paid his respects at berlin 's holocaust memorial , laying a wreath at the 19,000-square-meter monument in the center of berlin .
lieberman later held talks with german interior minister wolfgang schaeuble , followed by dinner with his german counterpart frank-walter steinmeier .
germany 's top diplomat urged the controversial israeli foreign minister to adopt a two-state plan as the basis for peace in the middle east and the " sole path to peace and security . "
steinmeier emphasized that the german government expected the new israeli administration under prime minister benjamin netanyahu would abide with previous peace commitments .
the german minister said it was important to stregthen moderate forces in the region and actively involve them in the peace process .
with regard to the situation in the gaza strip , steinmeier said it was imperative that palestinians had access to aid supplies .
the israeli foreign minister , who heads a nationalist party in prime minister benjamin netanyahu 's coalition , caused a stir on his first day in office , when he announced that israel was no longer bound by the so-called annapolis peace process , which formed the basis of the israeli-palestinian peace talks in 2008 .
lieberman 's european visit - which has included meetings in rome , paris and european union talks in prague - was mostly conducted out of the media eye .
in berlin , no joint press conference or photo call was scheduled for his meeting with steinmeier .
this echoed lieberman 's reception in france , where foreign minister bernard kouchner chose not to hold a joint press conference as had been customary when lieberman 's predecessor tzipi livni came to paris . ch / pfd / nrt , rtr / dpa / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de merkel says " no alternative " to two-state solution in middle east german chancellor angela merkel has said there is no alternative to a two-state solution to the mideast crisis following talks in berlin on wednesday with jordan 's king abdullah ii .
-lrb- 06.05.2009 -rrb- netanyahu demands that palestinians recognize israel as jewish state israeli prime minister benjamin netanyahu has demanded palestinians recognize israel as a jewish state .
the call was made during his meeting with the visiting us special envoy to the middle east , george mitchell .
-lrb- 16.04.2009 -rrb- opinion : labour decision to join likud harms hopes for peace israeli labour party head ehud barack 's decision to take part in a government led by hardliner benjamin netanyahu is a disservice to the labour party and , more importantly , to hopes for peace , writes dw 's peter philipp .
-lrb- 25.03.2009 -rrb- radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live arts on the air vienna ’ s annual cultural festival listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
animals wild boars with hearty appetites are proving problematic in berlin , where food is plentiful .
listen to the audio feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
steinmeier urges israeli counterpart to accept two-state plan -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 05.09.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de israel -pipe- 07.05.2009 steinmeier urges israeli counterpart to accept two-state plan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lieberman has been making his first official visit to berlin while in berlin , israel 's foreign minister has left a cloud over the mideast peace process , calling it a waste of money . israeli foreign minister avigdor lieberman has left german parliamentarians pessimistic about the future of the middle east peace process .
in berlin , the last stop of his four-day european tour , the right-wing minister refused to commit to a two-state solution for israel and the palestinian territories .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lieberman -lrb- right -rrb- with ruprecht polenz , chairman of the foreign affairs committee during talks with members of the german parliamentary foreign affairs committee lieberman said the peace process had been little more than a waste of money .
he also brought up iran , saying the country was a major threat .
later in the day , lieberman paid his respects at berlin 's holocaust memorial , laying a wreath at the 19,000-square-meter monument in the center of berlin .
lieberman later held talks with german interior minister wolfgang schaeuble , followed by dinner with his german counterpart frank-walter steinmeier .
germany 's top diplomat urged the controversial israeli foreign minister to adopt a two-state plan as the basis for peace in the middle east and the " sole path to peace and security . "
steinmeier emphasized that the german government expected the new israeli administration under prime minister benjamin netanyahu would abide with previous peace commitments .
the german minister said it was important to stregthen moderate forces in the region and actively involve them in the peace process .
with regard to the situation in the gaza strip , steinmeier said it was imperative that palestinians had access to aid supplies .
the israeli foreign minister , who heads a nationalist party in prime minister benjamin netanyahu 's coalition , caused a stir on his first day in office , when he announced that israel was no longer bound by the so-called annapolis peace process , which formed the basis of the israeli-palestinian peace talks in 2008 .
lieberman 's european visit - which has included meetings in rome , paris and european union talks in prague - was mostly conducted out of the media eye .
in berlin , no joint press conference or photo call was scheduled for his meeting with steinmeier .
this echoed lieberman 's reception in france , where foreign minister bernard kouchner chose not to hold a joint press conference as had been customary when lieberman 's predecessor tzipi livni came to paris . ch / pfd / nrt , rtr / dpa / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de merkel says " no alternative " to two-state solution in middle east german chancellor angela merkel has said there is no alternative to a two-state solution to the mideast crisis following talks in berlin on wednesday with jordan 's king abdullah ii .
-lrb- 06.05.2009 -rrb- netanyahu demands that palestinians recognize israel as jewish state israeli prime minister benjamin netanyahu has demanded palestinians recognize israel as a jewish state .
the call was made during his meeting with the visiting us special envoy to the middle east , george mitchell .
-lrb- 16.04.2009 -rrb- opinion : labour decision to join likud harms hopes for peace israeli labour party head ehud barack 's decision to take part in a government led by hardliner benjamin netanyahu is a disservice to the labour party and , more importantly , to hopes for peace , writes dw 's peter philipp .
-lrb- 25.03.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live sports report listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
steinmeier urges israeli counterpart to accept two-state plan -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de israel -pipe- 07.05.2009 steinmeier urges israeli counterpart to accept two-state plan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lieberman has been making his first official visit to berlin while in berlin , israel 's foreign minister has left a cloud over the mideast peace process , calling it a waste of money . israeli foreign minister avigdor lieberman has left german parliamentarians pessimistic about the future of the middle east peace process .
in berlin , the last stop of his four-day european tour , the right-wing minister refused to commit to a two-state solution for israel and the palestinian territories .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lieberman -lrb- right -rrb- with ruprecht polenz , chairman of the foreign affairs committee during talks with members of the german parliamentary foreign affairs committee lieberman said the peace process had been little more than a waste of money .
he also brought up iran , saying the country was a major threat .
later in the day , lieberman paid his respects at berlin 's holocaust memorial , laying a wreath at the 19,000-square-meter monument in the center of berlin .
lieberman later held talks with german interior minister wolfgang schaeuble , followed by dinner with his german counterpart frank-walter steinmeier .
germany 's top diplomat urged the controversial israeli foreign minister to adopt a two-state plan as the basis for peace in the middle east and the " sole path to peace and security . "
steinmeier emphasized that the german government expected the new israeli administration under prime minister benjamin netanyahu would abide with previous peace commitments .
the german minister said it was important to stregthen moderate forces in the region and actively involve them in the peace process .
with regard to the situation in the gaza strip , steinmeier said it was imperative that palestinians had access to aid supplies .
the israeli foreign minister , who heads a nationalist party in prime minister benjamin netanyahu 's coalition , caused a stir on his first day in office , when he announced that israel was no longer bound by the so-called annapolis peace process , which formed the basis of the israeli-palestinian peace talks in 2008 .
lieberman 's european visit - which has included meetings in rome , paris and european union talks in prague - was mostly conducted out of the media eye .
in berlin , no joint press conference or photo call was scheduled for his meeting with steinmeier .
this echoed lieberman 's reception in france , where foreign minister bernard kouchner chose not to hold a joint press conference as had been customary when lieberman 's predecessor tzipi livni came to paris . ch / pfd / nrt , rtr / dpa / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de merkel says " no alternative " to two-state solution in middle east german chancellor angela merkel has said there is no alternative to a two-state solution to the mideast crisis following talks in berlin on wednesday with jordan 's king abdullah ii .
-lrb- 06.05.2009 -rrb- netanyahu demands that palestinians recognize israel as jewish state israeli prime minister benjamin netanyahu has demanded palestinians recognize israel as a jewish state .
the call was made during his meeting with the visiting us special envoy to the middle east , george mitchell .
-lrb- 16.04.2009 -rrb- opinion : labour decision to join likud harms hopes for peace israeli labour party head ehud barack 's decision to take part in a government led by hardliner benjamin netanyahu is a disservice to the labour party and , more importantly , to hopes for peace , writes dw 's peter philipp .
-lrb- 25.03.2009 -rrb- radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live im focus - dokumentationen und reportagen we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live in-box -lsb- in-box -rsb- feedback from around the world listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
art german photographer lala aufsberg 's work is a fascinating historical record of the 20th century .
watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
steinmeier urges israeli counterpart to accept two-state plan -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 29.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de israel -pipe- 07.05.2009 steinmeier urges israeli counterpart to accept two-state plan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lieberman has been making his first official visit to berlin while in berlin , israel 's foreign minister has left a cloud over the mideast peace process , calling it a waste of money . israeli foreign minister avigdor lieberman has left german parliamentarians pessimistic about the future of the middle east peace process .
in berlin , the last stop of his four-day european tour , the right-wing minister refused to commit to a two-state solution for israel and the palestinian territories .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lieberman -lrb- right -rrb- with ruprecht polenz , chairman of the foreign affairs committee during talks with members of the german parliamentary foreign affairs committee lieberman said the peace process had been little more than a waste of money .
he also brought up iran , saying the country was a major threat .
later in the day , lieberman paid his respects at berlin 's holocaust memorial , laying a wreath at the 19,000-square-meter monument in the center of berlin .
lieberman later held talks with german interior minister wolfgang schaeuble , followed by dinner with his german counterpart frank-walter steinmeier .
germany 's top diplomat urged the controversial israeli foreign minister to adopt a two-state plan as the basis for peace in the middle east and the " sole path to peace and security . "
steinmeier emphasized that the german government expected the new israeli administration under prime minister benjamin netanyahu would abide with previous peace commitments .
the german minister said it was important to stregthen moderate forces in the region and actively involve them in the peace process .
with regard to the situation in the gaza strip , steinmeier said it was imperative that palestinians had access to aid supplies .
the israeli foreign minister , who heads a nationalist party in prime minister benjamin netanyahu 's coalition , caused a stir on his first day in office , when he announced that israel was no longer bound by the so-called annapolis peace process , which formed the basis of the israeli-palestinian peace talks in 2008 .
lieberman 's european visit - which has included meetings in rome , paris and european union talks in prague - was mostly conducted out of the media eye .
in berlin , no joint press conference or photo call was scheduled for his meeting with steinmeier .
this echoed lieberman 's reception in france , where foreign minister bernard kouchner chose not to hold a joint press conference as had been customary when lieberman 's predecessor tzipi livni came to paris . ch / pfd / nrt , rtr / dpa / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de merkel says " no alternative " to two-state solution in middle east german chancellor angela merkel has said there is no alternative to a two-state solution to the mideast crisis following talks in berlin on wednesday with jordan 's king abdullah ii .
-lrb- 06.05.2009 -rrb- netanyahu demands that palestinians recognize israel as jewish state israeli prime minister benjamin netanyahu has demanded palestinians recognize israel as a jewish state .
the call was made during his meeting with the visiting us special envoy to the middle east , george mitchell .
-lrb- 16.04.2009 -rrb- opinion : labour decision to join likud harms hopes for peace israeli labour party head ehud barack 's decision to take part in a government led by hardliner benjamin netanyahu is a disservice to the labour party and , more importantly , to hopes for peace , writes dw 's peter philipp .
-lrb- 25.03.2009 -rrb- radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live kick off !
countdown - spezial : ausblick auf die kommende saison we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive. tourism germany 's north sea coast boasts some of the longest and most attractive beaches in europe .
watch the video dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
bremen book a place in the uefa cup final , clinching a win against rivals hamburg -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 19.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de soccer -pipe- 07.05.2009 bremen book a place in the uefa cup final , clinching a win against rivals hamburg großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bremen 's diego scores but will miss the uefa cup final .
werder bremen came from a goal down to win 3-2 away to sv hamburg thursday to book a uefa cup final date in istanbul against ukrainian side shakhtar donetsk . diego , claudio pizarro and frank baumann were the goal-scoring heroes for bremen to advance to their first ever european final on may 20 in istanbul .
bremen went into the clash trailing 1-0 from the first leg but conceded a goal to hosts hamburg in the 13th minute when joris mathijsen powered his way upfield from defence before finding ivica olic who chipped the ball over bremen 's goalkeepr tim wiese .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : hamburgs 's ivica olic , left , scores his side 's first goal past bremen 's goalkeeper tim wiese olic could have doubled hamburg 's lead on 27 minutes but his effort from close range was saved .
within two minutes bremen were level when diego and pizarro combined well before the brazilian slotted the ball past frank rost .
diego nearly netted a second on 37 minutes but his shot from 25 metres hit the crossbar .
however , the 24-year-old was booked two minutes before the break for an off-the-ball row with alex silva , who also saw yellow , meaning the brazilian will miss the final .
" it was a difficult situation i did n't do anything , not to go to the final is very bad for me , " said diego .
peruvian striker pizarro scored on 66 minutes , beating rost at the near post although the hamburg goalkeeper really should have done better .
baumann looked to have put the game beyond hamburg with bremen 's third seven minutes from time and although olic popped up to score his second of the game to make it 3-2 on the night to set up a tense finale , bremen held on to make it to their first uefa cup final .
" we played well , it was tough to come from two goals down , " said pizarro .
" diego played a great match its a pity he 's not in the final but thats football . "
bremen are the first german side to reach a uefa cup final since borussia dortmund reached the final in 2002 only to lose against feyenoord rotterdam .
ruhr valley side schalke 04 were the last german winners back in 1997 .
same procedure ?
thursday 's semi-final fixture is the third in a series of four matches to be played between the two northern german clubs within a 19-day period . the first game went bremen 's way when goalkeeper tim wiese made three saves in a penalty shootout to knock hamburg out of the german cup semi-final on april 22 . the second saw hamburg gain revenge eight days later with its 0-1 victory in bremen .
the fourth and final derby match is a bundesliga fixture scheduled for sunday , may 10 . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : thomas schaaf has coached werder bremen for a decade intense rivalry as the two biggest cities in northern germany , hamburg and bremen have a long history of competing with each other as hanseatic trading powers , regional centers of industry and culture , and sporting contenders . " what 's very special is that they more or less share the same backyard from which they can get their soccer fans , " deutsche welle 's sports head wolfgang van kann says .
" so it 's always a question of who is better , and where the fans will go . " from a historical perspective , it 's difficult to say which club has been more successful .
according to the so-called " eternal table , " which records the performances of all bundesliga clubs since the competition was founded in 1963 , werder bremen and hamburg are ranked second and third respectively .
at the time of writing , they were separated by just six points . " clearly hamburg has the longer tradition and the longer streak of success , " van kann says .
" bremen has only come up in the last one or two decades , but with huge success . " while hamburg has n't won a title since it lifted the german cup in 1987 , bremen won the german double in 2004 and has qualified for the champions league for the past five seasons . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : fans were disgusted when hooligans killed a 16-year-old in 1982 " the clubs have always been very different , " van kann explains .
" for example you can see that hamburg has had several coaches within the past few years , while bremen has only had one coach for the last 10 years . " fan violence one thing the two clubs do have in common is a dedicated fan base .
hamburg boasts almost 55,000 members , while bremen has more than 30,000 .
but violence involving so-called " ultras " and militant fan groups has driven a wedge between the two cities on more than one occasion . the worst incident took place in october 1982 , when hamburg hosted bremen for a second-round german cup match .
despite a large police presence around the main train station and the stadium , hooligans belonging to a group known as the " hamburg lions " attacked visitors with beer cans , stones and fireworks . a 16-year-old bremen fan named adrian maleika was killed after he was hit on the head by a stone .
while most of germany was shocked , a number of hard-line fans were quoted in the press as being indifferent or hungry for revenge . tensions between supporters of the rival clubs threatened to boil over until representatives of more than 200 fan groups met in the town of scheessel , half-way between bremen and hamburg , and signed a " peace deal " banning revenge attacks . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : werder bremen topped the bundesliga in 1993 and 2004 while provocative lyrics sung in stadiums during northern derbies occasionally refer to the incident , most fans have put the conflict behind them , and prefer to remember - or forget - these four landmark matches from the past 30 years : bremen 6-0 hamburg , may 1 , 2004 the most one-sided result between the two clubs was in bremen as the 2003-04 bundesliga season drew to an end .
some 42,000 spectators watched hamburg striker sergej barbarez score an own-goal and trigger an avalanche of bremen goals .
one match later , werder bremen won the championship with a spectacular 3-1 victory over bayern munich . bremen 4-2 hamburg , october 27 , 1993 just over 34,000 fans turned out to watch the fourth round german cup fixture in bremen 's weserstadion .
austrian midfielder andreas herzog gave bremen an early lead , but hamburg managed to score twice after the break before bernd hobsch leveled the scores in the 74th minute .
when hamburg 's andreas sassen was shown a red card , bremen 's frank neubarth and wynton rufer capitalized by both finding the net in the final four minutes .
the convincing victory saw werder bremen progress through the tournament to win the 1993 german cup . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : horst hrubesch was a key player for hamburg in 1982 .
bremen 5-0 hamburg , may 29 , 1993 bremen also secured the bundesliga crown with one game to spare in 1993 thanks to this overwhelming victory .
andreas herzog and wynton rufer both scored as the home crowd celebrated their club 's third title .
bremen ended the season one point ahead of bayern munich , leaving hamburg to finish 11th .
legendary bremen coach otto rehhagel described the victory as a " milestone " for the club . hamburg 5-0 bremen , may 15 , 1982 one of hamburg 's two highest-ever wins against their northern derby rivals came in the closing stages of the 1981/1982 campaign .
a total of 53,400 fans watched horst hrubesch - now germany 's under-21 coach - score a hat-trick as hamburg demolished bremen 's defense to win the bundesliga title at the expense of second-placed fc cologne . author : sam edmonds editor : darren mara send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de hamburg move closer to uefa final after bremen defeat sv hamburg took the advantage on thursday after defeating bremen 1-0 in the first leg of their uefa cup semi-final matches .
hamburg 's coach says their position is good for the second leg , but bremen is not giving up .
-lrb- 01.05.2009 -rrb- german , ukrainian clubs fight for uefa cup honors domestic pride will be at stake in europe when ukrainian and german clubs battle against each other in the semi-finals of the uefa cup in first-leg matches on thursday .
-lrb- 30.04.2009 -rrb- werder bremen beat hamburg in cup semi-final bremen beat hamburg on penalties to reach the cup final .
bremen 's goalie tim wiese was the man of the game as he saved three penalties .
his side will now face leverkusen in the final .
-lrb- 23.04.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 dw-tv europe live in focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live in-box feedback from around the world listen live bundesliga predictions match day 17 picks the dw pundits are back from the alien abduction that kept them silent last week .
dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report high scorer freiburg 's papiss demba cisse opens up to dw-tv 's bundesliga kick off ! about his goalscoring ways .
watch the report scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results at a glance .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia moenchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
bremen book a place in the uefa cup final , clinching a win against rivals hamburg -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 07.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de soccer -pipe- 07.05.2009 bremen book a place in the uefa cup final , clinching a win against rivals hamburg großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bremen 's diego scores but will miss the uefa cup final .
werder bremen came from a goal down to win 3-2 away to sv hamburg thursday to book a uefa cup final date in istanbul against ukrainian side shakhtar donetsk . diego , claudio pizarro and frank baumann were the goal-scoring heroes for bremen to advance to their first ever european final on may 20 in istanbul .
bremen went into the clash trailing 1-0 from the first leg but conceded a goal to hosts hamburg in the 13th minute when joris mathijsen powered his way upfield from defence before finding ivica olic who chipped the ball over bremen 's goalkeepr tim wiese .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : hamburgs 's ivica olic , left , scores his side 's first goal past bremen 's goalkeeper tim wiese olic could have doubled hamburg 's lead on 27 minutes but his effort from close range was saved .
within two minutes bremen were level when diego and pizarro combined well before the brazilian slotted the ball past frank rost .
diego nearly netted a second on 37 minutes but his shot from 25 metres hit the crossbar .
however , the 24-year-old was booked two minutes before the break for an off-the-ball row with alex silva , who also saw yellow , meaning the brazilian will miss the final .
" it was a difficult situation i did n't do anything , not to go to the final is very bad for me , " said diego .
peruvian striker pizarro scored on 66 minutes , beating rost at the near post although the hamburg goalkeeper really should have done better .
baumann looked to have put the game beyond hamburg with bremen 's third seven minutes from time and although olic popped up to score his second of the game to make it 3-2 on the night to set up a tense finale , bremen held on to make it to their first uefa cup final .
" we played well , it was tough to come from two goals down , " said pizarro .
" diego played a great match its a pity he 's not in the final but thats football . "
bremen are the first german side to reach a uefa cup final since borussia dortmund reached the final in 2002 only to lose against feyenoord rotterdam .
ruhr valley side schalke 04 were the last german winners back in 1997 .
same procedure ?
thursday 's semi-final fixture is the third in a series of four matches to be played between the two northern german clubs within a 19-day period . the first game went bremen 's way when goalkeeper tim wiese made three saves in a penalty shootout to knock hamburg out of the german cup semi-final on april 22 . the second saw hamburg gain revenge eight days later with its 0-1 victory in bremen .
the fourth and final derby match is a bundesliga fixture scheduled for sunday , may 10 . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : thomas schaaf has coached werder bremen for a decade intense rivalry as the two biggest cities in northern germany , hamburg and bremen have a long history of competing with each other as hanseatic trading powers , regional centers of industry and culture , and sporting contenders . " what 's very special is that they more or less share the same backyard from which they can get their soccer fans , " deutsche welle 's sports head wolfgang van kann says .
" so it 's always a question of who is better , and where the fans will go . " from a historical perspective , it 's difficult to say which club has been more successful .
according to the so-called " eternal table , " which records the performances of all bundesliga clubs since the competition was founded in 1963 , werder bremen and hamburg are ranked second and third respectively .
at the time of writing , they were separated by just six points . " clearly hamburg has the longer tradition and the longer streak of success , " van kann says .
" bremen has only come up in the last one or two decades , but with huge success . " while hamburg has n't won a title since it lifted the german cup in 1987 , bremen won the german double in 2004 and has qualified for the champions league for the past five seasons . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : fans were disgusted when hooligans killed a 16-year-old in 1982 " the clubs have always been very different , " van kann explains .
" for example you can see that hamburg has had several coaches within the past few years , while bremen has only had one coach for the last 10 years . " fan violence one thing the two clubs do have in common is a dedicated fan base .
hamburg boasts almost 55,000 members , while bremen has more than 30,000 .
but violence involving so-called " ultras " and militant fan groups has driven a wedge between the two cities on more than one occasion . the worst incident took place in october 1982 , when hamburg hosted bremen for a second-round german cup match .
despite a large police presence around the main train station and the stadium , hooligans belonging to a group known as the " hamburg lions " attacked visitors with beer cans , stones and fireworks . a 16-year-old bremen fan named adrian maleika was killed after he was hit on the head by a stone .
while most of germany was shocked , a number of hard-line fans were quoted in the press as being indifferent or hungry for revenge . tensions between supporters of the rival clubs threatened to boil over until representatives of more than 200 fan groups met in the town of scheessel , half-way between bremen and hamburg , and signed a " peace deal " banning revenge attacks . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : werder bremen topped the bundesliga in 1993 and 2004 while provocative lyrics sung in stadiums during northern derbies occasionally refer to the incident , most fans have put the conflict behind them , and prefer to remember - or forget - these four landmark matches from the past 30 years : bremen 6-0 hamburg , may 1 , 2004 the most one-sided result between the two clubs was in bremen as the 2003-04 bundesliga season drew to an end .
some 42,000 spectators watched hamburg striker sergej barbarez score an own-goal and trigger an avalanche of bremen goals .
one match later , werder bremen won the championship with a spectacular 3-1 victory over bayern munich . bremen 4-2 hamburg , october 27 , 1993 just over 34,000 fans turned out to watch the fourth round german cup fixture in bremen 's weserstadion .
austrian midfielder andreas herzog gave bremen an early lead , but hamburg managed to score twice after the break before bernd hobsch leveled the scores in the 74th minute .
when hamburg 's andreas sassen was shown a red card , bremen 's frank neubarth and wynton rufer capitalized by both finding the net in the final four minutes .
the convincing victory saw werder bremen progress through the tournament to win the 1993 german cup . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : horst hrubesch was a key player for hamburg in 1982 .
bremen 5-0 hamburg , may 29 , 1993 bremen also secured the bundesliga crown with one game to spare in 1993 thanks to this overwhelming victory .
andreas herzog and wynton rufer both scored as the home crowd celebrated their club 's third title .
bremen ended the season one point ahead of bayern munich , leaving hamburg to finish 11th .
legendary bremen coach otto rehhagel described the victory as a " milestone " for the club . hamburg 5-0 bremen , may 15 , 1982 one of hamburg 's two highest-ever wins against their northern derby rivals came in the closing stages of the 1981/1982 campaign .
a total of 53,400 fans watched horst hrubesch - now germany 's under-21 coach - score a hat-trick as hamburg demolished bremen 's defense to win the bundesliga title at the expense of second-placed fc cologne . author : sam edmonds editor : darren mara send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de hamburg move closer to uefa final after bremen defeat sv hamburg took the advantage on thursday after defeating bremen 1-0 in the first leg of their uefa cup semi-final matches .
hamburg 's coach says their position is good for the second leg , but bremen is not giving up .
-lrb- 01.05.2009 -rrb- german , ukrainian clubs fight for uefa cup honors domestic pride will be at stake in europe when ukrainian and german clubs battle against each other in the semi-finals of the uefa cup in first-leg matches on thursday .
-lrb- 30.04.2009 -rrb- werder bremen beat hamburg in cup semi-final bremen beat hamburg on penalties to reach the cup final .
bremen 's goalie tim wiese was the man of the game as he saved three penalties .
his side will now face leverkusen in the final .
-lrb- 23.04.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inside europe listen live dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report bundesliga predictions the voodoo we do dw 's experts resort to a mixture of voodoo and chicken bones to predict week eleven 's results .
scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results at a glance .
dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia moenchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg players bremen and peru 's claudio pizarro talks on becoming the top foreign scorer in bundesliga history .
watch the report © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
bremen book a place in the uefa cup final , clinching a win against rivals hamburg -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 19.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de soccer -pipe- 07.05.2009 bremen book a place in the uefa cup final , clinching a win against rivals hamburg großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bremen 's diego scores but will miss the uefa cup final .
werder bremen came from a goal down to win 3-2 away to sv hamburg thursday to book a uefa cup final date in istanbul against ukrainian side shakhtar donetsk . diego , claudio pizarro and frank baumann were the goal-scoring heroes for bremen to advance to their first ever european final on may 20 in istanbul .
bremen went into the clash trailing 1-0 from the first leg but conceded a goal to hosts hamburg in the 13th minute when joris mathijsen powered his way upfield from defence before finding ivica olic who chipped the ball over bremen 's goalkeepr tim wiese .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : hamburgs 's ivica olic , left , scores his side 's first goal past bremen 's goalkeeper tim wiese olic could have doubled hamburg 's lead on 27 minutes but his effort from close range was saved .
within two minutes bremen were level when diego and pizarro combined well before the brazilian slotted the ball past frank rost .
diego nearly netted a second on 37 minutes but his shot from 25 metres hit the crossbar .
however , the 24-year-old was booked two minutes before the break for an off-the-ball row with alex silva , who also saw yellow , meaning the brazilian will miss the final .
" it was a difficult situation i did n't do anything , not to go to the final is very bad for me , " said diego .
peruvian striker pizarro scored on 66 minutes , beating rost at the near post although the hamburg goalkeeper really should have done better .
baumann looked to have put the game beyond hamburg with bremen 's third seven minutes from time and although olic popped up to score his second of the game to make it 3-2 on the night to set up a tense finale , bremen held on to make it to their first uefa cup final .
" we played well , it was tough to come from two goals down , " said pizarro .
" diego played a great match its a pity he 's not in the final but thats football . "
bremen are the first german side to reach a uefa cup final since borussia dortmund reached the final in 2002 only to lose against feyenoord rotterdam .
ruhr valley side schalke 04 were the last german winners back in 1997 .
same procedure ?
thursday 's semi-final fixture is the third in a series of four matches to be played between the two northern german clubs within a 19-day period . the first game went bremen 's way when goalkeeper tim wiese made three saves in a penalty shootout to knock hamburg out of the german cup semi-final on april 22 . the second saw hamburg gain revenge eight days later with its 0-1 victory in bremen .
the fourth and final derby match is a bundesliga fixture scheduled for sunday , may 10 . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : thomas schaaf has coached werder bremen for a decade intense rivalry as the two biggest cities in northern germany , hamburg and bremen have a long history of competing with each other as hanseatic trading powers , regional centers of industry and culture , and sporting contenders . " what 's very special is that they more or less share the same backyard from which they can get their soccer fans , " deutsche welle 's sports head wolfgang van kann says .
" so it 's always a question of who is better , and where the fans will go . " from a historical perspective , it 's difficult to say which club has been more successful .
according to the so-called " eternal table , " which records the performances of all bundesliga clubs since the competition was founded in 1963 , werder bremen and hamburg are ranked second and third respectively .
at the time of writing , they were separated by just six points . " clearly hamburg has the longer tradition and the longer streak of success , " van kann says .
" bremen has only come up in the last one or two decades , but with huge success . " while hamburg has n't won a title since it lifted the german cup in 1987 , bremen won the german double in 2004 and has qualified for the champions league for the past five seasons . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : fans were disgusted when hooligans killed a 16-year-old in 1982 " the clubs have always been very different , " van kann explains .
" for example you can see that hamburg has had several coaches within the past few years , while bremen has only had one coach for the last 10 years . " fan violence one thing the two clubs do have in common is a dedicated fan base .
hamburg boasts almost 55,000 members , while bremen has more than 30,000 .
but violence involving so-called " ultras " and militant fan groups has driven a wedge between the two cities on more than one occasion . the worst incident took place in october 1982 , when hamburg hosted bremen for a second-round german cup match .
despite a large police presence around the main train station and the stadium , hooligans belonging to a group known as the " hamburg lions " attacked visitors with beer cans , stones and fireworks . a 16-year-old bremen fan named adrian maleika was killed after he was hit on the head by a stone .
while most of germany was shocked , a number of hard-line fans were quoted in the press as being indifferent or hungry for revenge . tensions between supporters of the rival clubs threatened to boil over until representatives of more than 200 fan groups met in the town of scheessel , half-way between bremen and hamburg , and signed a " peace deal " banning revenge attacks . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : werder bremen topped the bundesliga in 1993 and 2004 while provocative lyrics sung in stadiums during northern derbies occasionally refer to the incident , most fans have put the conflict behind them , and prefer to remember - or forget - these four landmark matches from the past 30 years : bremen 6-0 hamburg , may 1 , 2004 the most one-sided result between the two clubs was in bremen as the 2003-04 bundesliga season drew to an end .
some 42,000 spectators watched hamburg striker sergej barbarez score an own-goal and trigger an avalanche of bremen goals .
one match later , werder bremen won the championship with a spectacular 3-1 victory over bayern munich . bremen 4-2 hamburg , october 27 , 1993 just over 34,000 fans turned out to watch the fourth round german cup fixture in bremen 's weserstadion .
austrian midfielder andreas herzog gave bremen an early lead , but hamburg managed to score twice after the break before bernd hobsch leveled the scores in the 74th minute .
when hamburg 's andreas sassen was shown a red card , bremen 's frank neubarth and wynton rufer capitalized by both finding the net in the final four minutes .
the convincing victory saw werder bremen progress through the tournament to win the 1993 german cup . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : horst hrubesch was a key player for hamburg in 1982 .
bremen 5-0 hamburg , may 29 , 1993 bremen also secured the bundesliga crown with one game to spare in 1993 thanks to this overwhelming victory .
andreas herzog and wynton rufer both scored as the home crowd celebrated their club 's third title .
bremen ended the season one point ahead of bayern munich , leaving hamburg to finish 11th .
legendary bremen coach otto rehhagel described the victory as a " milestone " for the club . hamburg 5-0 bremen , may 15 , 1982 one of hamburg 's two highest-ever wins against their northern derby rivals came in the closing stages of the 1981/1982 campaign .
a total of 53,400 fans watched horst hrubesch - now germany 's under-21 coach - score a hat-trick as hamburg demolished bremen 's defense to win the bundesliga title at the expense of second-placed fc cologne . author : sam edmonds editor : darren mara send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de hamburg move closer to uefa final after bremen defeat sv hamburg took the advantage on thursday after defeating bremen 1-0 in the first leg of their uefa cup semi-final matches .
hamburg 's coach says their position is good for the second leg , but bremen is not giving up .
-lrb- 01.05.2009 -rrb- german , ukrainian clubs fight for uefa cup honors domestic pride will be at stake in europe when ukrainian and german clubs battle against each other in the semi-finals of the uefa cup in first-leg matches on thursday .
-lrb- 30.04.2009 -rrb- werder bremen beat hamburg in cup semi-final bremen beat hamburg on penalties to reach the cup final .
bremen 's goalie tim wiese was the man of the game as he saved three penalties .
his side will now face leverkusen in the final .
-lrb- 23.04.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live hits in germany hits in germany listen live dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report bundesliga predictions week four picks dw sports sizes up the week four match-ups in the bundesliga .
and hopes to pick a couple right .
scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results at a glance .
dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia moenchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german industrial orders make surprise jump -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.12.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de business -pipe- 07.05.2009 german industrial orders make surprise jump großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : daimler truck factory in woerth - demand for german manufactured goods is up german industrial orders in march showed their first rise for six months , on the back of an increase in orders from abroad . preliminary government figures show that german industrial orders grew an unexpected 3.3 percent in march , driven by an increase in demand from abroad .
the rise - economists had expected a moderate fall for the world 's top exporter - is the first piece of hard data to back up the government 's prediction that the economy is set to grow slightly in 2010 .
the german economy is expected to experience negative growth of around six percent this year .
germany 's economics ministry said the seasonally adjusted rise did not even begin to make up for recent months , with orders for goods falling by 14.5 percent in the first quarter .
the ministry said , though , that the latest numbers showed the trend had changed .
the march increase compared with a 3.1 percent drop in february ; and was largely due to a 5.6 percent increase in orders from abroad .
domestic orders also grew by just over one percent .
the month-on-month climb in march was stronger than expected and indicated that europe 's biggest economy may already be on the rebound from the worst effects of the global recession .
however , the european commission slashed its economic projections on monday , saying europe 's economy would shrink by four per cent this year .
that 's double the figure that it predicted at the start of the year . ch / pfd , rtr / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german business confidence falls ; economists say turnaround near business confidence in europe 's largest economy has reached an all time low , but according to some economists , things could level out and even rebound in the coming months .
-lrb- 26.03.2009 -rrb- europe to lose 3.5 million jobs in 2009 , study says a new study by the eu commission says that jobless rolls in the european union will swell by a further 3.5 million this year as the global economic slowdown batters labor markets across europe .
-lrb- 18.02.2009 -rrb- airbus warns of " horrible " year ahead european aircraft manufacturing giant airbus expects a dismal year with orders plummeting as the global economic crisis hits the aviation industry .
-lrb- 15.01.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live learning by ear listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
travel passau is called the three river city , but it is just as famous for its baroque splendor .
passau - baroque facades and vibrant arts watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german industrial orders make surprise jump -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 14.01.2011 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de business -pipe- 07.05.2009 german industrial orders make surprise jump großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : daimler truck factory in woerth - demand for german manufactured goods is up german industrial orders in march showed their first rise for six months , on the back of an increase in orders from abroad . preliminary government figures show that german industrial orders grew an unexpected 3.3 percent in march , driven by an increase in demand from abroad .
the rise - economists had expected a moderate fall for the world 's top exporter - is the first piece of hard data to back up the government 's prediction that the economy is set to grow slightly in 2010 .
the german economy is expected to experience negative growth of around six percent this year .
germany 's economics ministry said the seasonally adjusted rise did not even begin to make up for recent months , with orders for goods falling by 14.5 percent in the first quarter .
the ministry said , though , that the latest numbers showed the trend had changed .
the march increase compared with a 3.1 percent drop in february ; and was largely due to a 5.6 percent increase in orders from abroad .
domestic orders also grew by just over one percent .
the month-on-month climb in march was stronger than expected and indicated that europe 's biggest economy may already be on the rebound from the worst effects of the global recession .
however , the european commission slashed its economic projections on monday , saying europe 's economy would shrink by four per cent this year .
that 's double the figure that it predicted at the start of the year . ch / pfd , rtr / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german business confidence falls ; economists say turnaround near business confidence in europe 's largest economy has reached an all time low , but according to some economists , things could level out and even rebound in the coming months .
-lrb- 26.03.2009 -rrb- europe to lose 3.5 million jobs in 2009 , study says a new study by the eu commission says that jobless rolls in the european union will swell by a further 3.5 million this year as the global economic slowdown batters labor markets across europe .
-lrb- 18.02.2009 -rrb- airbus warns of " horrible " year ahead european aircraft manufacturing giant airbus expects a dismal year with orders plummeting as the global economic crisis hits the aviation industry .
-lrb- 15.01.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
bremen book a place in the uefa cup final , clinching a win against rivals hamburg -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 30.03.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de soccer -pipe- 07.05.2009 bremen book a place in the uefa cup final , clinching a win against rivals hamburg großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bremen 's diego scores but will miss the uefa cup final .
werder bremen came from a goal down to win 3-2 away to sv hamburg thursday to book a uefa cup final date in istanbul against ukrainian side shakhtar donetsk . diego , claudio pizarro and frank baumann were the goal-scoring heroes for bremen to advance to their first ever european final on may 20 in istanbul .
bremen went into the clash trailing 1-0 from the first leg but conceded a goal to hosts hamburg in the 13th minute when joris mathijsen powered his way upfield from defence before finding ivica olic who chipped the ball over bremen 's goalkeepr tim wiese .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : hamburgs 's ivica olic , left , scores his side 's first goal past bremen 's goalkeeper tim wiese olic could have doubled hamburg 's lead on 27 minutes but his effort from close range was saved .
within two minutes bremen were level when diego and pizarro combined well before the brazilian slotted the ball past frank rost .
diego nearly netted a second on 37 minutes but his shot from 25 metres hit the crossbar .
however , the 24-year-old was booked two minutes before the break for an off-the-ball row with alex silva , who also saw yellow , meaning the brazilian will miss the final .
" it was a difficult situation i did n't do anything , not to go to the final is very bad for me , " said diego .
peruvian striker pizarro scored on 66 minutes , beating rost at the near post although the hamburg goalkeeper really should have done better .
baumann looked to have put the game beyond hamburg with bremen 's third seven minutes from time and although olic popped up to score his second of the game to make it 3-2 on the night to set up a tense finale , bremen held on to make it to their first uefa cup final .
" we played well , it was tough to come from two goals down , " said pizarro .
" diego played a great match its a pity he 's not in the final but thats football . "
bremen are the first german side to reach a uefa cup final since borussia dortmund reached the final in 2002 only to lose against feyenoord rotterdam .
ruhr valley side schalke 04 were the last german winners back in 1997 .
same procedure ?
thursday 's semi-final fixture is the third in a series of four matches to be played between the two northern german clubs within a 19-day period . the first game went bremen 's way when goalkeeper tim wiese made three saves in a penalty shootout to knock hamburg out of the german cup semi-final on april 22 . the second saw hamburg gain revenge eight days later with its 0-1 victory in bremen .
the fourth and final derby match is a bundesliga fixture scheduled for sunday , may 10 . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : thomas schaaf has coached werder bremen for a decade intense rivalry as the two biggest cities in northern germany , hamburg and bremen have a long history of competing with each other as hanseatic trading powers , regional centers of industry and culture , and sporting contenders . " what 's very special is that they more or less share the same backyard from which they can get their soccer fans , " deutsche welle 's sports head wolfgang van kann says .
" so it 's always a question of who is better , and where the fans will go . " from a historical perspective , it 's difficult to say which club has been more successful .
according to the so-called " eternal table , " which records the performances of all bundesliga clubs since the competition was founded in 1963 , werder bremen and hamburg are ranked second and third respectively .
at the time of writing , they were separated by just six points . " clearly hamburg has the longer tradition and the longer streak of success , " van kann says .
" bremen has only come up in the last one or two decades , but with huge success . " while hamburg has n't won a title since it lifted the german cup in 1987 , bremen won the german double in 2004 and has qualified for the champions league for the past five seasons . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : fans were disgusted when hooligans killed a 16-year-old in 1982 " the clubs have always been very different , " van kann explains .
" for example you can see that hamburg has had several coaches within the past few years , while bremen has only had one coach for the last 10 years . " fan violence one thing the two clubs do have in common is a dedicated fan base .
hamburg boasts almost 55,000 members , while bremen has more than 30,000 .
but violence involving so-called " ultras " and militant fan groups has driven a wedge between the two cities on more than one occasion . the worst incident took place in october 1982 , when hamburg hosted bremen for a second-round german cup match .
despite a large police presence around the main train station and the stadium , hooligans belonging to a group known as the " hamburg lions " attacked visitors with beer cans , stones and fireworks . a 16-year-old bremen fan named adrian maleika was killed after he was hit on the head by a stone .
while most of germany was shocked , a number of hard-line fans were quoted in the press as being indifferent or hungry for revenge . tensions between supporters of the rival clubs threatened to boil over until representatives of more than 200 fan groups met in the town of scheessel , half-way between bremen and hamburg , and signed a " peace deal " banning revenge attacks . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : werder bremen topped the bundesliga in 1993 and 2004 while provocative lyrics sung in stadiums during northern derbies occasionally refer to the incident , most fans have put the conflict behind them , and prefer to remember - or forget - these four landmark matches from the past 30 years : bremen 6-0 hamburg , may 1 , 2004 the most one-sided result between the two clubs was in bremen as the 2003-04 bundesliga season drew to an end .
some 42,000 spectators watched hamburg striker sergej barbarez score an own-goal and trigger an avalanche of bremen goals .
one match later , werder bremen won the championship with a spectacular 3-1 victory over bayern munich . bremen 4-2 hamburg , october 27 , 1993 just over 34,000 fans turned out to watch the fourth round german cup fixture in bremen 's weserstadion .
austrian midfielder andreas herzog gave bremen an early lead , but hamburg managed to score twice after the break before bernd hobsch leveled the scores in the 74th minute .
when hamburg 's andreas sassen was shown a red card , bremen 's frank neubarth and wynton rufer capitalized by both finding the net in the final four minutes .
the convincing victory saw werder bremen progress through the tournament to win the 1993 german cup . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : horst hrubesch was a key player for hamburg in 1982 .
bremen 5-0 hamburg , may 29 , 1993 bremen also secured the bundesliga crown with one game to spare in 1993 thanks to this overwhelming victory .
andreas herzog and wynton rufer both scored as the home crowd celebrated their club 's third title .
bremen ended the season one point ahead of bayern munich , leaving hamburg to finish 11th .
legendary bremen coach otto rehhagel described the victory as a " milestone " for the club . hamburg 5-0 bremen , may 15 , 1982 one of hamburg 's two highest-ever wins against their northern derby rivals came in the closing stages of the 1981/1982 campaign .
a total of 53,400 fans watched horst hrubesch - now germany 's under-21 coach - score a hat-trick as hamburg demolished bremen 's defense to win the bundesliga title at the expense of second-placed fc cologne . author : sam edmonds editor : darren mara send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de hamburg move closer to uefa final after bremen defeat sv hamburg took the advantage on thursday after defeating bremen 1-0 in the first leg of their uefa cup semi-final matches .
hamburg 's coach says their position is good for the second leg , but bremen is not giving up .
-lrb- 01.05.2009 -rrb- german , ukrainian clubs fight for uefa cup honors domestic pride will be at stake in europe when ukrainian and german clubs battle against each other in the semi-finals of the uefa cup in first-leg matches on thursday .
-lrb- 30.04.2009 -rrb- werder bremen beat hamburg in cup semi-final bremen beat hamburg on penalties to reach the cup final .
bremen 's goalie tim wiese was the man of the game as he saved three penalties .
his side will now face leverkusen in the final .
-lrb- 23.04.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer on dw-radio .
sports report scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia mönchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
bremen book a place in the uefa cup final , clinching a win against rivals hamburg -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 14.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de soccer -pipe- 07.05.2009 bremen book a place in the uefa cup final , clinching a win against rivals hamburg großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bremen 's diego scores but will miss the uefa cup final .
werder bremen came from a goal down to win 3-2 away to sv hamburg thursday to book a uefa cup final date in istanbul against ukrainian side shakhtar donetsk . diego , claudio pizarro and frank baumann were the goal-scoring heroes for bremen to advance to their first ever european final on may 20 in istanbul .
bremen went into the clash trailing 1-0 from the first leg but conceded a goal to hosts hamburg in the 13th minute when joris mathijsen powered his way upfield from defence before finding ivica olic who chipped the ball over bremen 's goalkeepr tim wiese .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : hamburgs 's ivica olic , left , scores his side 's first goal past bremen 's goalkeeper tim wiese olic could have doubled hamburg 's lead on 27 minutes but his effort from close range was saved .
within two minutes bremen were level when diego and pizarro combined well before the brazilian slotted the ball past frank rost .
diego nearly netted a second on 37 minutes but his shot from 25 metres hit the crossbar .
however , the 24-year-old was booked two minutes before the break for an off-the-ball row with alex silva , who also saw yellow , meaning the brazilian will miss the final .
" it was a difficult situation i did n't do anything , not to go to the final is very bad for me , " said diego .
peruvian striker pizarro scored on 66 minutes , beating rost at the near post although the hamburg goalkeeper really should have done better .
baumann looked to have put the game beyond hamburg with bremen 's third seven minutes from time and although olic popped up to score his second of the game to make it 3-2 on the night to set up a tense finale , bremen held on to make it to their first uefa cup final .
" we played well , it was tough to come from two goals down , " said pizarro .
" diego played a great match its a pity he 's not in the final but thats football . "
bremen are the first german side to reach a uefa cup final since borussia dortmund reached the final in 2002 only to lose against feyenoord rotterdam .
ruhr valley side schalke 04 were the last german winners back in 1997 .
same procedure ?
thursday 's semi-final fixture is the third in a series of four matches to be played between the two northern german clubs within a 19-day period . the first game went bremen 's way when goalkeeper tim wiese made three saves in a penalty shootout to knock hamburg out of the german cup semi-final on april 22 . the second saw hamburg gain revenge eight days later with its 0-1 victory in bremen .
the fourth and final derby match is a bundesliga fixture scheduled for sunday , may 10 . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : thomas schaaf has coached werder bremen for a decade intense rivalry as the two biggest cities in northern germany , hamburg and bremen have a long history of competing with each other as hanseatic trading powers , regional centers of industry and culture , and sporting contenders . " what 's very special is that they more or less share the same backyard from which they can get their soccer fans , " deutsche welle 's sports head wolfgang van kann says .
" so it 's always a question of who is better , and where the fans will go . " from a historical perspective , it 's difficult to say which club has been more successful .
according to the so-called " eternal table , " which records the performances of all bundesliga clubs since the competition was founded in 1963 , werder bremen and hamburg are ranked second and third respectively .
at the time of writing , they were separated by just six points . " clearly hamburg has the longer tradition and the longer streak of success , " van kann says .
" bremen has only come up in the last one or two decades , but with huge success . " while hamburg has n't won a title since it lifted the german cup in 1987 , bremen won the german double in 2004 and has qualified for the champions league for the past five seasons . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : fans were disgusted when hooligans killed a 16-year-old in 1982 " the clubs have always been very different , " van kann explains .
" for example you can see that hamburg has had several coaches within the past few years , while bremen has only had one coach for the last 10 years . " fan violence one thing the two clubs do have in common is a dedicated fan base .
hamburg boasts almost 55,000 members , while bremen has more than 30,000 .
but violence involving so-called " ultras " and militant fan groups has driven a wedge between the two cities on more than one occasion . the worst incident took place in october 1982 , when hamburg hosted bremen for a second-round german cup match .
despite a large police presence around the main train station and the stadium , hooligans belonging to a group known as the " hamburg lions " attacked visitors with beer cans , stones and fireworks . a 16-year-old bremen fan named adrian maleika was killed after he was hit on the head by a stone .
while most of germany was shocked , a number of hard-line fans were quoted in the press as being indifferent or hungry for revenge . tensions between supporters of the rival clubs threatened to boil over until representatives of more than 200 fan groups met in the town of scheessel , half-way between bremen and hamburg , and signed a " peace deal " banning revenge attacks . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : werder bremen topped the bundesliga in 1993 and 2004 while provocative lyrics sung in stadiums during northern derbies occasionally refer to the incident , most fans have put the conflict behind them , and prefer to remember - or forget - these four landmark matches from the past 30 years : bremen 6-0 hamburg , may 1 , 2004 the most one-sided result between the two clubs was in bremen as the 2003-04 bundesliga season drew to an end .
some 42,000 spectators watched hamburg striker sergej barbarez score an own-goal and trigger an avalanche of bremen goals .
one match later , werder bremen won the championship with a spectacular 3-1 victory over bayern munich . bremen 4-2 hamburg , october 27 , 1993 just over 34,000 fans turned out to watch the fourth round german cup fixture in bremen 's weserstadion .
austrian midfielder andreas herzog gave bremen an early lead , but hamburg managed to score twice after the break before bernd hobsch leveled the scores in the 74th minute .
when hamburg 's andreas sassen was shown a red card , bremen 's frank neubarth and wynton rufer capitalized by both finding the net in the final four minutes .
the convincing victory saw werder bremen progress through the tournament to win the 1993 german cup . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : horst hrubesch was a key player for hamburg in 1982 .
bremen 5-0 hamburg , may 29 , 1993 bremen also secured the bundesliga crown with one game to spare in 1993 thanks to this overwhelming victory .
andreas herzog and wynton rufer both scored as the home crowd celebrated their club 's third title .
bremen ended the season one point ahead of bayern munich , leaving hamburg to finish 11th .
legendary bremen coach otto rehhagel described the victory as a " milestone " for the club . hamburg 5-0 bremen , may 15 , 1982 one of hamburg 's two highest-ever wins against their northern derby rivals came in the closing stages of the 1981/1982 campaign .
a total of 53,400 fans watched horst hrubesch - now germany 's under-21 coach - score a hat-trick as hamburg demolished bremen 's defense to win the bundesliga title at the expense of second-placed fc cologne . author : sam edmonds editor : darren mara send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de hamburg move closer to uefa final after bremen defeat sv hamburg took the advantage on thursday after defeating bremen 1-0 in the first leg of their uefa cup semi-final matches .
hamburg 's coach says their position is good for the second leg , but bremen is not giving up .
-lrb- 01.05.2009 -rrb- german , ukrainian clubs fight for uefa cup honors domestic pride will be at stake in europe when ukrainian and german clubs battle against each other in the semi-finals of the uefa cup in first-leg matches on thursday .
-lrb- 30.04.2009 -rrb- werder bremen beat hamburg in cup semi-final bremen beat hamburg on penalties to reach the cup final .
bremen 's goalie tim wiese was the man of the game as he saved three penalties .
his side will now face leverkusen in the final .
-lrb- 23.04.2009 -rrb- 9797 dw-tv europe live euromaxx - leben und kultur in europa we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-radio listen to the latest from german soccer on dw-radio .
sports report anti-racism girls wanted : scouting for germany 's next generation of female football talent listen to the audio art women 's football - a source of inspiration watch the video video women 's soccer is more popular than ever in the us .
watch the video final standings click here for the final 2010-11 bundesliga table . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
european central bank cuts rates to record low -pipe- nrs-import -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 05.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de economy -pipe- 07.05.2009 european central bank cuts rates to record low großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : jean-claude trichet , the ecb president .
the european central bank has cut its main interest rate to a record low one percent .
the cut was the fourth this year by the frankfurt-based bank , and it may not be the last . ecb president jean-claude trichet announced the cut on thursday , saying the bank was planning to shore up financial market confidence and boost liquidity by extending the period over which the ecb lends funds to banks at fixed rates from 6 months to 12 months and purchasing bonds .
the quarter point rate cut was the fourth this year by the frankfurt-based bank , which sets monetary policy for countries that share the euro currency .
trichet said that inflationary pressures had diminished in the economic downturn , but that the euro-zone economy appeared to be stabilising .
" the latest economic data suggest tentative signs of a stabilisation at very low levels after a first quarter which was significantly weaker than expected , " he told the news conference after the bank 's decision .
" the world economy including the eurozone is still undergoing a severe downturn with the prospect of both external and domestic demand remaining very weak over 2009 before gradually recovering in the course of 2010 , " trichet said .
he also said inflation expectations were consistent with keeping it in line with the bank 's target of price growth at or just below 2 percent .
eurozone inflation is at a record low of 0.6 percent and although some economic data are showing signs of stabilisation , the european commission this week forecast the eurozone 's economy would shrink by 4.0 percent this year .
the ecb has cut rates from 4.25 percent since last october .
trichet indicated that thursday 's rate cut was not necessarily the last . ch / pfd , rtr / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de eu agrees to boost aid to struggling member countries the european union has agreed to double the amount of a bailout fund to 50 billion euros -lrb- $ 67 billion -rrb- .
the fund was created to provide emergency loans to eastern eu countries hit hard by the financial crisis .
-lrb- 05.05.2009 -rrb- japanese pm lauds swift german reaction to financial crisis japanese prime minister taro aso was in berlin on tuesday as part of a three-day trip to europe .
the global economic downturn was on aso 's mind as he met with german chancellor angela merkel .
-lrb- 05.05.2009 -rrb- spring employment boost fails to materialize a much-hoped-for springtime jobs boost has failed to materialize , official german figures show .
-lrb- 30.04.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german industrial orders make surprise jump -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 15.09.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de business -pipe- 07.05.2009 german industrial orders make surprise jump großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : daimler truck factory in woerth - demand for german manufactured goods is up german industrial orders in march showed their first rise for six months , on the back of an increase in orders from abroad . preliminary government figures show that german industrial orders grew an unexpected 3.3 percent in march , driven by an increase in demand from abroad .
the rise - economists had expected a moderate fall for the world 's top exporter - is the first piece of hard data to back up the government 's prediction that the economy is set to grow slightly in 2010 .
the german economy is expected to experience negative growth of around six percent this year .
germany 's economics ministry said the seasonally adjusted rise did not even begin to make up for recent months , with orders for goods falling by 14.5 percent in the first quarter .
the ministry said , though , that the latest numbers showed the trend had changed .
the march increase compared with a 3.1 percent drop in february ; and was largely due to a 5.6 percent increase in orders from abroad .
domestic orders also grew by just over one percent .
the month-on-month climb in march was stronger than expected and indicated that europe 's biggest economy may already be on the rebound from the worst effects of the global recession .
however , the european commission slashed its economic projections on monday , saying europe 's economy would shrink by four per cent this year .
that 's double the figure that it predicted at the start of the year . ch / pfd , rtr / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german business confidence falls ; economists say turnaround near business confidence in europe 's largest economy has reached an all time low , but according to some economists , things could level out and even rebound in the coming months .
-lrb- 26.03.2009 -rrb- europe to lose 3.5 million jobs in 2009 , study says a new study by the eu commission says that jobless rolls in the european union will swell by a further 3.5 million this year as the global economic slowdown batters labor markets across europe .
-lrb- 18.02.2009 -rrb- airbus warns of " horrible " year ahead european aircraft manufacturing giant airbus expects a dismal year with orders plummeting as the global economic crisis hits the aviation industry .
-lrb- 15.01.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
fiat reported to have plans to shut down german opel plant -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.12.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de auto industry -pipe- 07.05.2009 fiat reported to have plans to shut down german opel plant großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : at this stage , the road fiat plans to take in its proposed opel takeover is unclear italian auto group fiat could shut down as many as five factories , including one in germany , as part of its plans to take over the european operations of struggling us auto giant , general motors . according to media reports that cite fiat 's proposal to the german government from earlier this week , the opel plant in kaiserslautern would cease operations under fiat .
plants in bochum and the opel headquarters at ruesselsheim would , according to the reports , be scaled down , as part of " project phoenix " .
one gm plant in england , one in austria , as well as two italian factories would also be part of the shutdown list , according to the reports .
however , this contradicts fiat ceo sergio marchionne 's denial earlier this week that any of opel 's four german plans would be closed . job cuts " inevitable " - no matter who takes over bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : opel employees ' fate is still very much up in the air armin schild , a member of opel 's supervisory board , said job cuts would be inevitable in a takeover of opel .
job cut plans are one of the key criteria on which the suitability of potential investors in opel will be judged , according to a checklist drawn up by vice-chancellor frank-walter steinmeier -lrb- spd -rrb- , who will is to challenge chancellor angela merkel -lrb- cdu -rrb- in september 's federal election .
schild , who represents labor union ig metall on the board , also said the austrian-canadian car parts maker magna has so far presented a more concrete takeover proposal .
media reports have said that possible partners for magna include russian carmaker gaz as well as russia 's sberbank .
gaz and its owner , billionaire oleg deripaska , have repeatedly denied interest .
general motors teeters on bridge of bankruptcy meanwhile , opel 's parent company , general motors , has announced a quarterly net loss of six billion dollars -lrb- 4.5 billion euros -rrb- - its eighth quarterly loss in a row .
it also announced a loss of 2 billion dollars -lrb- 1.5 billion euros -rrb- from its european operations .
revenue dropped by 47 percent , to 22.4 billion dollars .
gm , the largest us carmaker , is currently operating under a us federal bail-out plan .
it is threatened with bankruptcy , as has already happened to its competitor , chrysler .
us president barack obama has given gm an end-of-may deadline for a new restructuring plan to be implemented . cg / dpa , reuters / ap / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de fiat denies it plans to cut 18,000 jobs , close factories fiat has denied a german news report that it plans to cut 18,000 jobs and close 10 factories in europe , should it succeed in its bid to take over gm 's european operations .
-lrb- 06.05.2009 -rrb- fiat boss commits to opel plants in germany the head of italian automaker fiat , sergio marchionne , has said in an interview he wants to keep open all four opel plants in germany after a possible takeover of the struggling carmaker .
-lrb- 05.05.2009 -rrb- magna meets with guttenberg over possible opel deal representatives from the canadian-austrian car parts supplier have presented germany 's economics minister with a draft plan for bailing out opel .
but the troubled carmaker remains a bone of contention .
-lrb- 28.04.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
travel passau is called the three river city , but it is just as famous for its baroque splendor .
passau - baroque facades and vibrant arts watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
obama wins pledge from afghan , pakistani leaders to confront militants -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.10.2010 home news germany europe world from tierra del fuego to tijuana asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de diplomacy -pipe- 07.05.2009 obama wins pledge from afghan , pakistani leaders to confront militants großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : obama warned of more violence in pakistan and afghanistan at the three-way summit president barack obama won a fresh promise from the leaders of pakistan and afghanistan on wednesday to work together to defeat al qaeda , and vowed he would make " every effort " to avoid civilian deaths . afghanistan 's hamid karzai and pakistan 's asif ali zardari came to washington after heavy criticism of their efforts to combat a taliban resurgence in their countries .
after their talks obama said both men " fully appreciate the seriousness of the threat " posed by al qaeda and their allies .
" the road ahead will be difficult .
there will be more violence and there will be setbacks , " obama said , with karzai and zardari at his side in the grand foyer of the white house .
" but let me be clear - the united states has not only made a lasting commitment to defeat al qaeda but also to support the democratically elected sovereign governments of both pakistan and afghanistan .
that commitment will not waiver and that support will be sustained . "
the obama administration has sharply criticized both karzai and zardari in the past , questioning their commitment and capability to tackle the threat from al qaeda and the taliban .
civilian casualties caused by us military operations in both countries , including drone strikes inside pakistan , have infuriated many afghans and pakistanis and made it harder for both countries ' leaders to cooperate with the united states .
military action earlier this week is believed to have caused dozens of civilian deaths with regional lawmakers and the international committee of the red cross reporting that as many as 100 people may have died in an operation in the bala boluk district of farah province in western afghanistan .
" we deeply , deeply regret that loss , " us secretary of state hillary clinton said of the civilian deaths before meeting karzai and zardari .
later she called that meeting " in some ways a breakthrough " and said she was " very optimistic " the process was making a difference .
obama announced a new approach to the fight against al qaeda in both countries in late march , offering more aid but also more than 20,000 extra troops to afghanistan this year .
pakistan 's zardari , who has been under fierce criticism for his response to taliban militants who have made inroads in the swat and buner valleys this year , pleaded for support for his fledgling democracy .
" my democracy needs attention and needs nurturing , " zardari said .
" pakistani democracy will deliver , the terrorists will be defeated by our joint struggle .
me , my friend president karzai and the united states ... will stand shoulder to shoulder with the world to fight this cancer and this threat . "
the pakistan government recently launched a major military offensive following pressure from the us to stop the advance of extremists in the region .
the islamist taliban says the offensive violates a peace deal it made with islamabad , which allowed the introduction of shariah law in the swat valley in exchange for a ceasefire .
on wednesday , pakistani security forces attacked taliban fighters in the swat valley , killing at least 64 of them after the united states called on the government to show its commitment to fighting militancy .
but the growing taliban influence in north-western pakistan has raised international concerns over the stability of the nuclear-armed country .
meanwhile in berlin , pakistani defence minister chaudry ahmad mukhtar has met with his german counterpart franz josef jung and asked for international help .
mukhtar said pakistan did not have the capacity to fight what he described as a " guerrilla war " in the north-west of the country . nrt , nk dpa / reuters / ap send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de obama to up pressure on , offer incentives to pakistan and afghanistan money for security - that 's the deal that us president barack obama is to offer his pakistani and afghan counterparts on wednesday .
a former german ambassador to pakistan talks us through a potentially historic meeting .
-lrb- 05.05.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic pakistani defence minister visits germany us president barack obama unveils a new afghan war strategy feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live global 3000 we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live hits in germany pop from the german top 100 listen live life at gitmo dw-tv visits guantanamo bay for a closer look at the infamous detention camp the report as video on demand learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan new web site check out deutsche welle 's new asia page in english .
dw asia online news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's newest media partner latin america take a multimedia journey discover the region and its people © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
obama wins pledge from afghan , pakistani leaders to confront militants -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 16.09.2010 home news germany europe world from tierra del fuego to tijuana asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de diplomacy -pipe- 07.05.2009 obama wins pledge from afghan , pakistani leaders to confront militants großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : obama warned of more violence in pakistan and afghanistan at the three-way summit president barack obama won a fresh promise from the leaders of pakistan and afghanistan on wednesday to work together to defeat al qaeda , and vowed he would make " every effort " to avoid civilian deaths . afghanistan 's hamid karzai and pakistan 's asif ali zardari came to washington after heavy criticism of their efforts to combat a taliban resurgence in their countries .
after their talks obama said both men " fully appreciate the seriousness of the threat " posed by al qaeda and their allies .
" the road ahead will be difficult .
there will be more violence and there will be setbacks , " obama said , with karzai and zardari at his side in the grand foyer of the white house .
" but let me be clear - the united states has not only made a lasting commitment to defeat al qaeda but also to support the democratically elected sovereign governments of both pakistan and afghanistan .
that commitment will not waiver and that support will be sustained . "
the obama administration has sharply criticized both karzai and zardari in the past , questioning their commitment and capability to tackle the threat from al qaeda and the taliban .
civilian casualties caused by us military operations in both countries , including drone strikes inside pakistan , have infuriated many afghans and pakistanis and made it harder for both countries ' leaders to cooperate with the united states .
military action earlier this week is believed to have caused dozens of civilian deaths with regional lawmakers and the international committee of the red cross reporting that as many as 100 people may have died in an operation in the bala boluk district of farah province in western afghanistan .
" we deeply , deeply regret that loss , " us secretary of state hillary clinton said of the civilian deaths before meeting karzai and zardari .
later she called that meeting " in some ways a breakthrough " and said she was " very optimistic " the process was making a difference .
obama announced a new approach to the fight against al qaeda in both countries in late march , offering more aid but also more than 20,000 extra troops to afghanistan this year .
pakistan 's zardari , who has been under fierce criticism for his response to taliban militants who have made inroads in the swat and buner valleys this year , pleaded for support for his fledgling democracy .
" my democracy needs attention and needs nurturing , " zardari said .
" pakistani democracy will deliver , the terrorists will be defeated by our joint struggle .
me , my friend president karzai and the united states ... will stand shoulder to shoulder with the world to fight this cancer and this threat . "
the pakistan government recently launched a major military offensive following pressure from the us to stop the advance of extremists in the region .
the islamist taliban says the offensive violates a peace deal it made with islamabad , which allowed the introduction of shariah law in the swat valley in exchange for a ceasefire .
on wednesday , pakistani security forces attacked taliban fighters in the swat valley , killing at least 64 of them after the united states called on the government to show its commitment to fighting militancy .
but the growing taliban influence in north-western pakistan has raised international concerns over the stability of the nuclear-armed country .
meanwhile in berlin , pakistani defence minister chaudry ahmad mukhtar has met with his german counterpart franz josef jung and asked for international help .
mukhtar said pakistan did not have the capacity to fight what he described as a " guerrilla war " in the north-west of the country . nrt , nk dpa / reuters / ap send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de obama to up pressure on , offer incentives to pakistan and afghanistan money for security - that 's the deal that us president barack obama is to offer his pakistani and afghan counterparts on wednesday .
a former german ambassador to pakistan talks us through a potentially historic meeting .
-lrb- 05.05.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic pakistani defence minister visits germany us president barack obama unveils a new afghan war strategy feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live challenging talks us secretary of state hillary clinton faces a difficult task at the middle east peace talks .
watch the video afghan elections the us commander in afghanistan , general petraeus , wants more nato troops ahead of elections .
watch the video learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan new web site check out deutsche welle 's new asia page in english .
dw asia online news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's newest media partner latin america take a multimedia journey discover the region and its people © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
obama wins pledge from afghan , pakistani leaders to confront militants -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 30.03.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de diplomacy -pipe- 07.05.2009 obama wins pledge from afghan , pakistani leaders to confront militants großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : obama warned of more violence in pakistan and afghanistan at the three-way summit president barack obama won a fresh promise from the leaders of pakistan and afghanistan on wednesday to work together to defeat al qaeda , and vowed he would make " every effort " to avoid civilian deaths . afghanistan 's hamid karzai and pakistan 's asif ali zardari came to washington after heavy criticism of their efforts to combat a taliban resurgence in their countries .
after their talks obama said both men " fully appreciate the seriousness of the threat " posed by al qaeda and their allies .
" the road ahead will be difficult .
there will be more violence and there will be setbacks , " obama said , with karzai and zardari at his side in the grand foyer of the white house .
" but let me be clear - the united states has not only made a lasting commitment to defeat al qaeda but also to support the democratically elected sovereign governments of both pakistan and afghanistan .
that commitment will not waiver and that support will be sustained . "
the obama administration has sharply criticized both karzai and zardari in the past , questioning their commitment and capability to tackle the threat from al qaeda and the taliban .
civilian casualties caused by us military operations in both countries , including drone strikes inside pakistan , have infuriated many afghans and pakistanis and made it harder for both countries ' leaders to cooperate with the united states .
military action earlier this week is believed to have caused dozens of civilian deaths with regional lawmakers and the international committee of the red cross reporting that as many as 100 people may have died in an operation in the bala boluk district of farah province in western afghanistan .
" we deeply , deeply regret that loss , " us secretary of state hillary clinton said of the civilian deaths before meeting karzai and zardari .
later she called that meeting " in some ways a breakthrough " and said she was " very optimistic " the process was making a difference .
obama announced a new approach to the fight against al qaeda in both countries in late march , offering more aid but also more than 20,000 extra troops to afghanistan this year .
pakistan 's zardari , who has been under fierce criticism for his response to taliban militants who have made inroads in the swat and buner valleys this year , pleaded for support for his fledgling democracy .
" my democracy needs attention and needs nurturing , " zardari said .
" pakistani democracy will deliver , the terrorists will be defeated by our joint struggle .
me , my friend president karzai and the united states ... will stand shoulder to shoulder with the world to fight this cancer and this threat . "
the pakistan government recently launched a major military offensive following pressure from the us to stop the advance of extremists in the region .
the islamist taliban says the offensive violates a peace deal it made with islamabad , which allowed the introduction of shariah law in the swat valley in exchange for a ceasefire .
on wednesday , pakistani security forces attacked taliban fighters in the swat valley , killing at least 64 of them after the united states called on the government to show its commitment to fighting militancy .
but the growing taliban influence in north-western pakistan has raised international concerns over the stability of the nuclear-armed country .
meanwhile in berlin , pakistani defence minister chaudry ahmad mukhtar has met with his german counterpart franz josef jung and asked for international help .
mukhtar said pakistan did not have the capacity to fight what he described as a " guerrilla war " in the north-west of the country . nrt , nk dpa / reuters / ap send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de obama to up pressure on , offer incentives to pakistan and afghanistan money for security - that 's the deal that us president barack obama is to offer his pakistani and afghan counterparts on wednesday .
a former german ambassador to pakistan talks us through a potentially historic meeting .
-lrb- 05.05.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic pakistani defence minister visits germany us president barack obama unveils a new afghan war strategy feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
death penalty amnesty says china and middle east countries are still the main culprits in terms of executions .
watch the video transatlantic voices expert opinion no international cooperation has been declared dead or dying as often as the european union .
international conference media representatives around the world gather in bonn to discuss human rights .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
obama wins pledge from afghan , pakistani leaders to confront militants -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 06.01.2011 home news germany europe world from tierra del fuego to tijuana asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de diplomacy -pipe- 07.05.2009 obama wins pledge from afghan , pakistani leaders to confront militants großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : obama warned of more violence in pakistan and afghanistan at the three-way summit president barack obama won a fresh promise from the leaders of pakistan and afghanistan on wednesday to work together to defeat al qaeda , and vowed he would make " every effort " to avoid civilian deaths . afghanistan 's hamid karzai and pakistan 's asif ali zardari came to washington after heavy criticism of their efforts to combat a taliban resurgence in their countries .
after their talks obama said both men " fully appreciate the seriousness of the threat " posed by al qaeda and their allies .
" the road ahead will be difficult .
there will be more violence and there will be setbacks , " obama said , with karzai and zardari at his side in the grand foyer of the white house .
" but let me be clear - the united states has not only made a lasting commitment to defeat al qaeda but also to support the democratically elected sovereign governments of both pakistan and afghanistan .
that commitment will not waiver and that support will be sustained . "
the obama administration has sharply criticized both karzai and zardari in the past , questioning their commitment and capability to tackle the threat from al qaeda and the taliban .
civilian casualties caused by us military operations in both countries , including drone strikes inside pakistan , have infuriated many afghans and pakistanis and made it harder for both countries ' leaders to cooperate with the united states .
military action earlier this week is believed to have caused dozens of civilian deaths with regional lawmakers and the international committee of the red cross reporting that as many as 100 people may have died in an operation in the bala boluk district of farah province in western afghanistan .
" we deeply , deeply regret that loss , " us secretary of state hillary clinton said of the civilian deaths before meeting karzai and zardari .
later she called that meeting " in some ways a breakthrough " and said she was " very optimistic " the process was making a difference .
obama announced a new approach to the fight against al qaeda in both countries in late march , offering more aid but also more than 20,000 extra troops to afghanistan this year .
pakistan 's zardari , who has been under fierce criticism for his response to taliban militants who have made inroads in the swat and buner valleys this year , pleaded for support for his fledgling democracy .
" my democracy needs attention and needs nurturing , " zardari said .
" pakistani democracy will deliver , the terrorists will be defeated by our joint struggle .
me , my friend president karzai and the united states ... will stand shoulder to shoulder with the world to fight this cancer and this threat . "
the pakistan government recently launched a major military offensive following pressure from the us to stop the advance of extremists in the region .
the islamist taliban says the offensive violates a peace deal it made with islamabad , which allowed the introduction of shariah law in the swat valley in exchange for a ceasefire .
on wednesday , pakistani security forces attacked taliban fighters in the swat valley , killing at least 64 of them after the united states called on the government to show its commitment to fighting militancy .
but the growing taliban influence in north-western pakistan has raised international concerns over the stability of the nuclear-armed country .
meanwhile in berlin , pakistani defence minister chaudry ahmad mukhtar has met with his german counterpart franz josef jung and asked for international help .
mukhtar said pakistan did not have the capacity to fight what he described as a " guerrilla war " in the north-west of the country . nrt , nk dpa / reuters / ap send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de obama to up pressure on , offer incentives to pakistan and afghanistan money for security - that 's the deal that us president barack obama is to offer his pakistani and afghan counterparts on wednesday .
a former german ambassador to pakistan talks us through a potentially historic meeting .
-lrb- 05.05.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic pakistani defence minister visits germany us president barack obama unveils a new afghan war strategy feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
the road ahead the nato exit strategy aims to hand security to afghan forces , however that is a long way off .
watch the video learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan latin america take a multimedia journey discover the region and its people news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's newest media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
obama wins pledge from afghan , pakistani leaders to confront militants -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 14.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de diplomacy -pipe- 07.05.2009 obama wins pledge from afghan , pakistani leaders to confront militants großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : obama warned of more violence in pakistan and afghanistan at the three-way summit president barack obama won a fresh promise from the leaders of pakistan and afghanistan on wednesday to work together to defeat al qaeda , and vowed he would make " every effort " to avoid civilian deaths . afghanistan 's hamid karzai and pakistan 's asif ali zardari came to washington after heavy criticism of their efforts to combat a taliban resurgence in their countries .
after their talks obama said both men " fully appreciate the seriousness of the threat " posed by al qaeda and their allies .
" the road ahead will be difficult .
there will be more violence and there will be setbacks , " obama said , with karzai and zardari at his side in the grand foyer of the white house .
" but let me be clear - the united states has not only made a lasting commitment to defeat al qaeda but also to support the democratically elected sovereign governments of both pakistan and afghanistan .
that commitment will not waiver and that support will be sustained . "
the obama administration has sharply criticized both karzai and zardari in the past , questioning their commitment and capability to tackle the threat from al qaeda and the taliban .
civilian casualties caused by us military operations in both countries , including drone strikes inside pakistan , have infuriated many afghans and pakistanis and made it harder for both countries ' leaders to cooperate with the united states .
military action earlier this week is believed to have caused dozens of civilian deaths with regional lawmakers and the international committee of the red cross reporting that as many as 100 people may have died in an operation in the bala boluk district of farah province in western afghanistan .
" we deeply , deeply regret that loss , " us secretary of state hillary clinton said of the civilian deaths before meeting karzai and zardari .
later she called that meeting " in some ways a breakthrough " and said she was " very optimistic " the process was making a difference .
obama announced a new approach to the fight against al qaeda in both countries in late march , offering more aid but also more than 20,000 extra troops to afghanistan this year .
pakistan 's zardari , who has been under fierce criticism for his response to taliban militants who have made inroads in the swat and buner valleys this year , pleaded for support for his fledgling democracy .
" my democracy needs attention and needs nurturing , " zardari said .
" pakistani democracy will deliver , the terrorists will be defeated by our joint struggle .
me , my friend president karzai and the united states ... will stand shoulder to shoulder with the world to fight this cancer and this threat . "
the pakistan government recently launched a major military offensive following pressure from the us to stop the advance of extremists in the region .
the islamist taliban says the offensive violates a peace deal it made with islamabad , which allowed the introduction of shariah law in the swat valley in exchange for a ceasefire .
on wednesday , pakistani security forces attacked taliban fighters in the swat valley , killing at least 64 of them after the united states called on the government to show its commitment to fighting militancy .
but the growing taliban influence in north-western pakistan has raised international concerns over the stability of the nuclear-armed country .
meanwhile in berlin , pakistani defence minister chaudry ahmad mukhtar has met with his german counterpart franz josef jung and asked for international help .
mukhtar said pakistan did not have the capacity to fight what he described as a " guerrilla war " in the north-west of the country . nrt , nk dpa / reuters / ap send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de obama to up pressure on , offer incentives to pakistan and afghanistan money for security - that 's the deal that us president barack obama is to offer his pakistani and afghan counterparts on wednesday .
a former german ambassador to pakistan talks us through a potentially historic meeting .
-lrb- 05.05.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic pakistani defence minister visits germany us president barack obama unveils a new afghan war strategy 9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
cairo crisis egypt 's military council has warned protesters it will move in to break up the demonstrations .
watch the video in depth focus on libya dw-world looks at the turmoil in libya : what it means for tripoli and the rest of the world .
international conference media representatives around the world gather in bonn to discuss human rights .
podcast series by teaching stand-up comedy , bryan encourages his students to discover their talents .
download the report subscribe to the series on itunes past episodes learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
prague summit to launch " eastern partnership " -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 30.03.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de european ties -pipe- 07.05.2009 prague summit to launch " eastern partnership " großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the " eastern partnership " is the brain child of poland and sweden good neighborhood policy is normally on the agenda of the eu rotating presidency .
but the nation at the helm determines which neighbors take priority .
that sweden takes over soon is good news for the eu 's eastern flank . when france was in charge during the second half of 2008 , president nicolas sarkozy made relations with his country 's mediterranean rim neighbors the cornerstone of his six month eu presidency .
membership in sarkozy 's " club med " was based on sharing a common mediterranean coastline , so morocco , turkey , israel and syria met the geographical criteria .
the idea was to provide an eu-mediterranean forum for tackling regional issues such as illegal boat migration from africa , combating terrorism and cleaning up the polluted sea .
the mediterranean union 's inaugural summit last july represented a milestone in bringing the heads of state of israel and its middle east adversaries together in paris , but the french eu initiative had already lost steam by the start of the czech republic 's presidency in january 2009 .
now with less than two months left of prague 's beleaguered eu presidency , the 27 nation bloc 's priorities have shifted northwards and eastwards geographically .
czech prime minister mirek topolanek was ousted last month and will be replaced on may 8 by an interim government .
topolanek 's successor jan fischer takes over the day after the eu launches its " eastern partnership " -lrb- ep -rrb- with six post-soviet states- armenia , azerbaijan , belarus , georgia , moldova and ukraine- at a summit in prague on may 7 .
eu wants stable eastern neighbors bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : eu commission president jose manuel barroso and his commissioners do n't want a new " iron curtain " eu officials say that the goal of the initiative is to help stabilize and modernize the states created from the break-up of the former soviet union by bringing in free markets and pro-democracy reforms .
the russia-georgia war last august over the breakaway province of south ossetia further underscored the eu 's need to " engage more deeply with its eastern neighbors to stabilize the region , " says sabine fischer , a russia and cis expert at the eu institute for security studies -lrb- euiss -rrb- in paris . then there is belarus , formerly called belorussia or white russia , which the eu has long regarded as the black sheep of the post-soviet cis states .
its president alexander lukashenko , who earned the reputation of being " europe 's last dictator " for his government 's dubious human rights record , had even been placed under an eu travel ban , which was lifted last october .
but now that lukaschenko has said he wants to normalize " difficult " relations with the eu , belarus has been invited to participate in the prague summit on a technical level .
however lukaschenko himself will not attend the summit sending instead his deputy vladimir semachko .
russia makes some noise bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : russian foreign minister sergey lavrov speaks out at last month 's annual brussels forum meeting in brussels since belarus is one of the kremlin 's closest allies , russia foreign minister sergei lavrov expressed his dismay over the eastern partnership at a meeting with eu diplomats in luxembourg on april 28 , saying that " any processes leading to developments within the eu … should ensure no overlap in the post-soviet area . " although moscow 's political leaders see an encroachment on their former " sphere of influence " , their bark is louder than their bite , according to russia analysts .
" russia 's political leadership does not really feel threatened by the eu 's rapprochement with the post-soviet states , " said fischer .
" its leaders are more relaxed with the eu , as opposed to nato , " she added .
stefan meister of the german council on foreign relations -lrb- dgap -rrb- who sees the eastern partnership as a regional grouping similar to the mediterranean union , thinks that lavrov might have felt slighted by being left out of the new initiative .
" but he also understands that this can be a typical eu initiative with a lot of talk , but maybe not much happening , " he said .
extension of existing eu structure the eastern partnership , which would be embedded in an existing structure called the european neighbourhood policy -lrb- enp -rrb- , emerged last year as the brainchild of poland and sweden .
enp was created in 2004 when the eu expanded eastwards to include the former soviet satellite states in the bloc , whose membership jumped from 15 to 25 .
romania and bulgaria later joined the eu in 2007 .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : south ossetian separatist fighters celebrate russian recognition of the breakaway georgian territories of south ossetia and abkhazia its initial objective was to minimize the impact of a new iron curtain between the enlarged eu and the neighboring post-soviet states even further east , by offering a privileged partnership based on a commitment to democratic values and market principles .
the eastern partnership builds up a stronger regional dimension that goes further than the enp , says oksana antonenko , a senior russia analyst at the international institute for strategic studies in london .
enp offers bilateral relations with all countries that border the entire eu by land and sea , including the mediterranean union countries , whereas the ep is a multilateral agreement involving only six countries , she explained .
" the ep opens the door to potentially deeper multi-speed integration with the eu on matters such as visa-free travel or free trade , " said antonenko , who explained that member states could keep progressing to a higher level of cooperation with the eu " a la carte " on a specific issue .
not a stepping stone to join the eu the partnership offers carrots to encourage political and economic reforms , but it is not a stepping stone to eventual eu membership , says dgap 's meister , who characterizes the ep as an alternative to joining the eu .
" it brings the six -lrb- cis -rrb- states closer to the value system of the eu and offers them something like a customs union , but maybe not what they really want - the perspective of eu membership down the road , " he said .
ukraine is eager to join the eu club , but the bloc is suffering from enlargement fatigue and the lisbon treaty , that is supposed to streamline decision-making , still hangs in the balance . one of the lisbon treaty 's goals is to create a more permanent eu presidency filled by a high profile politician for a period of two-and-a-half years to replace the current six month rotating system . when the czech term ends at the end of june , the swedes will take over , a stroke of luck for the eastern partnership , according to fischer .
" the swedes are going to put a strong emphasis on this -lrb- northeastern -rrb- region , " she said .
" after all , the ep was their initiative . " author : diana fong editor : susan houlton send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
death penalty amnesty says china and middle east countries are still the main culprits in terms of executions .
watch the video transatlantic voices expert opinion no international cooperation has been declared dead or dying as often as the european union .
international conference media representatives around the world gather in bonn to discuss human rights .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
prague summit to launch " eastern partnership " -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.09.2010 home news germany europe world from tierra del fuego to tijuana asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de european ties -pipe- 07.05.2009 prague summit to launch " eastern partnership " großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the " eastern partnership " is the brain child of poland and sweden good neighborhood policy is normally on the agenda of the eu rotating presidency .
but the nation at the helm determines which neighbors take priority .
that sweden takes over soon is good news for the eu 's eastern flank . when france was in charge during the second half of 2008 , president nicolas sarkozy made relations with his country 's mediterranean rim neighbors the cornerstone of his six month eu presidency .
membership in sarkozy 's " club med " was based on sharing a common mediterranean coastline , so morocco , turkey , israel and syria met the geographical criteria .
the idea was to provide an eu-mediterranean forum for tackling regional issues such as illegal boat migration from africa , combating terrorism and cleaning up the polluted sea .
the mediterranean union 's inaugural summit last july represented a milestone in bringing the heads of state of israel and its middle east adversaries together in paris , but the french eu initiative had already lost steam by the start of the czech republic 's presidency in january 2009 .
now with less than two months left of prague 's beleaguered eu presidency , the 27 nation bloc 's priorities have shifted northwards and eastwards geographically .
czech prime minister mirek topolanek was ousted last month and will be replaced on may 8 by an interim government .
topolanek 's successor jan fischer takes over the day after the eu launches its " eastern partnership " -lrb- ep -rrb- with six post-soviet states- armenia , azerbaijan , belarus , georgia , moldova and ukraine- at a summit in prague on may 7 .
eu wants stable eastern neighbors bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : eu commission president jose manuel barroso and his commissioners do n't want a new " iron curtain " eu officials say that the goal of the initiative is to help stabilize and modernize the states created from the break-up of the former soviet union by bringing in free markets and pro-democracy reforms .
the russia-georgia war last august over the breakaway province of south ossetia further underscored the eu 's need to " engage more deeply with its eastern neighbors to stabilize the region , " says sabine fischer , a russia and cis expert at the eu institute for security studies -lrb- euiss -rrb- in paris . then there is belarus , formerly called belorussia or white russia , which the eu has long regarded as the black sheep of the post-soviet cis states .
its president alexander lukashenko , who earned the reputation of being " europe 's last dictator " for his government 's dubious human rights record , had even been placed under an eu travel ban , which was lifted last october .
but now that lukaschenko has said he wants to normalize " difficult " relations with the eu , belarus has been invited to participate in the prague summit on a technical level .
however lukaschenko himself will not attend the summit sending instead his deputy vladimir semachko .
russia makes some noise bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : russian foreign minister sergey lavrov speaks out at last month 's annual brussels forum meeting in brussels since belarus is one of the kremlin 's closest allies , russia foreign minister sergei lavrov expressed his dismay over the eastern partnership at a meeting with eu diplomats in luxembourg on april 28 , saying that " any processes leading to developments within the eu … should ensure no overlap in the post-soviet area . " although moscow 's political leaders see an encroachment on their former " sphere of influence " , their bark is louder than their bite , according to russia analysts .
" russia 's political leadership does not really feel threatened by the eu 's rapprochement with the post-soviet states , " said fischer .
" its leaders are more relaxed with the eu , as opposed to nato , " she added .
stefan meister of the german council on foreign relations -lrb- dgap -rrb- who sees the eastern partnership as a regional grouping similar to the mediterranean union , thinks that lavrov might have felt slighted by being left out of the new initiative .
" but he also understands that this can be a typical eu initiative with a lot of talk , but maybe not much happening , " he said .
extension of existing eu structure the eastern partnership , which would be embedded in an existing structure called the european neighbourhood policy -lrb- enp -rrb- , emerged last year as the brainchild of poland and sweden .
enp was created in 2004 when the eu expanded eastwards to include the former soviet satellite states in the bloc , whose membership jumped from 15 to 25 .
romania and bulgaria later joined the eu in 2007 .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : south ossetian separatist fighters celebrate russian recognition of the breakaway georgian territories of south ossetia and abkhazia its initial objective was to minimize the impact of a new iron curtain between the enlarged eu and the neighboring post-soviet states even further east , by offering a privileged partnership based on a commitment to democratic values and market principles .
the eastern partnership builds up a stronger regional dimension that goes further than the enp , says oksana antonenko , a senior russia analyst at the international institute for strategic studies in london .
enp offers bilateral relations with all countries that border the entire eu by land and sea , including the mediterranean union countries , whereas the ep is a multilateral agreement involving only six countries , she explained .
" the ep opens the door to potentially deeper multi-speed integration with the eu on matters such as visa-free travel or free trade , " said antonenko , who explained that member states could keep progressing to a higher level of cooperation with the eu " a la carte " on a specific issue .
not a stepping stone to join the eu the partnership offers carrots to encourage political and economic reforms , but it is not a stepping stone to eventual eu membership , says dgap 's meister , who characterizes the ep as an alternative to joining the eu .
" it brings the six -lrb- cis -rrb- states closer to the value system of the eu and offers them something like a customs union , but maybe not what they really want - the perspective of eu membership down the road , " he said .
ukraine is eager to join the eu club , but the bloc is suffering from enlargement fatigue and the lisbon treaty , that is supposed to streamline decision-making , still hangs in the balance . one of the lisbon treaty 's goals is to create a more permanent eu presidency filled by a high profile politician for a period of two-and-a-half years to replace the current six month rotating system . when the czech term ends at the end of june , the swedes will take over , a stroke of luck for the eastern partnership , according to fischer .
" the swedes are going to put a strong emphasis on this -lrb- northeastern -rrb- region , " she said .
" after all , the ep was their initiative . " author : diana fong editor : susan houlton send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live european business week making europe 's business your business listen live taliban terror the taliban have called on voters to boycott afghan female candidates and threatened terror attacks .
watch the video learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan new web site check out deutsche welle 's new asia page in english .
dw asia online news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's newest media partner latin america take a multimedia journey discover the region and its people © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
prague summit to launch " eastern partnership " -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 06.11.2010 home news germany europe world from tierra del fuego to tijuana asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de european ties -pipe- 07.05.2009 prague summit to launch " eastern partnership " großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the " eastern partnership " is the brain child of poland and sweden good neighborhood policy is normally on the agenda of the eu rotating presidency .
but the nation at the helm determines which neighbors take priority .
that sweden takes over soon is good news for the eu 's eastern flank . when france was in charge during the second half of 2008 , president nicolas sarkozy made relations with his country 's mediterranean rim neighbors the cornerstone of his six month eu presidency .
membership in sarkozy 's " club med " was based on sharing a common mediterranean coastline , so morocco , turkey , israel and syria met the geographical criteria .
the idea was to provide an eu-mediterranean forum for tackling regional issues such as illegal boat migration from africa , combating terrorism and cleaning up the polluted sea .
the mediterranean union 's inaugural summit last july represented a milestone in bringing the heads of state of israel and its middle east adversaries together in paris , but the french eu initiative had already lost steam by the start of the czech republic 's presidency in january 2009 .
now with less than two months left of prague 's beleaguered eu presidency , the 27 nation bloc 's priorities have shifted northwards and eastwards geographically .
czech prime minister mirek topolanek was ousted last month and will be replaced on may 8 by an interim government .
topolanek 's successor jan fischer takes over the day after the eu launches its " eastern partnership " -lrb- ep -rrb- with six post-soviet states- armenia , azerbaijan , belarus , georgia , moldova and ukraine- at a summit in prague on may 7 .
eu wants stable eastern neighbors bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : eu commission president jose manuel barroso and his commissioners do n't want a new " iron curtain " eu officials say that the goal of the initiative is to help stabilize and modernize the states created from the break-up of the former soviet union by bringing in free markets and pro-democracy reforms .
the russia-georgia war last august over the breakaway province of south ossetia further underscored the eu 's need to " engage more deeply with its eastern neighbors to stabilize the region , " says sabine fischer , a russia and cis expert at the eu institute for security studies -lrb- euiss -rrb- in paris . then there is belarus , formerly called belorussia or white russia , which the eu has long regarded as the black sheep of the post-soviet cis states .
its president alexander lukashenko , who earned the reputation of being " europe 's last dictator " for his government 's dubious human rights record , had even been placed under an eu travel ban , which was lifted last october .
but now that lukaschenko has said he wants to normalize " difficult " relations with the eu , belarus has been invited to participate in the prague summit on a technical level .
however lukaschenko himself will not attend the summit sending instead his deputy vladimir semachko .
russia makes some noise bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : russian foreign minister sergey lavrov speaks out at last month 's annual brussels forum meeting in brussels since belarus is one of the kremlin 's closest allies , russia foreign minister sergei lavrov expressed his dismay over the eastern partnership at a meeting with eu diplomats in luxembourg on april 28 , saying that " any processes leading to developments within the eu … should ensure no overlap in the post-soviet area . " although moscow 's political leaders see an encroachment on their former " sphere of influence " , their bark is louder than their bite , according to russia analysts .
" russia 's political leadership does not really feel threatened by the eu 's rapprochement with the post-soviet states , " said fischer .
" its leaders are more relaxed with the eu , as opposed to nato , " she added .
stefan meister of the german council on foreign relations -lrb- dgap -rrb- who sees the eastern partnership as a regional grouping similar to the mediterranean union , thinks that lavrov might have felt slighted by being left out of the new initiative .
" but he also understands that this can be a typical eu initiative with a lot of talk , but maybe not much happening , " he said .
extension of existing eu structure the eastern partnership , which would be embedded in an existing structure called the european neighbourhood policy -lrb- enp -rrb- , emerged last year as the brainchild of poland and sweden .
enp was created in 2004 when the eu expanded eastwards to include the former soviet satellite states in the bloc , whose membership jumped from 15 to 25 .
romania and bulgaria later joined the eu in 2007 .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : south ossetian separatist fighters celebrate russian recognition of the breakaway georgian territories of south ossetia and abkhazia its initial objective was to minimize the impact of a new iron curtain between the enlarged eu and the neighboring post-soviet states even further east , by offering a privileged partnership based on a commitment to democratic values and market principles .
the eastern partnership builds up a stronger regional dimension that goes further than the enp , says oksana antonenko , a senior russia analyst at the international institute for strategic studies in london .
enp offers bilateral relations with all countries that border the entire eu by land and sea , including the mediterranean union countries , whereas the ep is a multilateral agreement involving only six countries , she explained .
" the ep opens the door to potentially deeper multi-speed integration with the eu on matters such as visa-free travel or free trade , " said antonenko , who explained that member states could keep progressing to a higher level of cooperation with the eu " a la carte " on a specific issue .
not a stepping stone to join the eu the partnership offers carrots to encourage political and economic reforms , but it is not a stepping stone to eventual eu membership , says dgap 's meister , who characterizes the ep as an alternative to joining the eu .
" it brings the six -lrb- cis -rrb- states closer to the value system of the eu and offers them something like a customs union , but maybe not what they really want - the perspective of eu membership down the road , " he said .
ukraine is eager to join the eu club , but the bloc is suffering from enlargement fatigue and the lisbon treaty , that is supposed to streamline decision-making , still hangs in the balance . one of the lisbon treaty 's goals is to create a more permanent eu presidency filled by a high profile politician for a period of two-and-a-half years to replace the current six month rotating system . when the czech term ends at the end of june , the swedes will take over , a stroke of luck for the eastern partnership , according to fischer .
" the swedes are going to put a strong emphasis on this -lrb- northeastern -rrb- region , " she said .
" after all , the ep was their initiative . " author : diana fong editor : susan houlton send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan new web site check out deutsche welle 's new asia page in english .
dw asia online news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's newest media partner latin america take a multimedia journey discover the region and its people © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
prague summit to launch " eastern partnership " -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.12.2010 home news germany europe world from tierra del fuego to tijuana asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de european ties -pipe- 07.05.2009 prague summit to launch " eastern partnership " großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the " eastern partnership " is the brain child of poland and sweden good neighborhood policy is normally on the agenda of the eu rotating presidency .
but the nation at the helm determines which neighbors take priority .
that sweden takes over soon is good news for the eu 's eastern flank . when france was in charge during the second half of 2008 , president nicolas sarkozy made relations with his country 's mediterranean rim neighbors the cornerstone of his six month eu presidency .
membership in sarkozy 's " club med " was based on sharing a common mediterranean coastline , so morocco , turkey , israel and syria met the geographical criteria .
the idea was to provide an eu-mediterranean forum for tackling regional issues such as illegal boat migration from africa , combating terrorism and cleaning up the polluted sea .
the mediterranean union 's inaugural summit last july represented a milestone in bringing the heads of state of israel and its middle east adversaries together in paris , but the french eu initiative had already lost steam by the start of the czech republic 's presidency in january 2009 .
now with less than two months left of prague 's beleaguered eu presidency , the 27 nation bloc 's priorities have shifted northwards and eastwards geographically .
czech prime minister mirek topolanek was ousted last month and will be replaced on may 8 by an interim government .
topolanek 's successor jan fischer takes over the day after the eu launches its " eastern partnership " -lrb- ep -rrb- with six post-soviet states- armenia , azerbaijan , belarus , georgia , moldova and ukraine- at a summit in prague on may 7 .
eu wants stable eastern neighbors bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : eu commission president jose manuel barroso and his commissioners do n't want a new " iron curtain " eu officials say that the goal of the initiative is to help stabilize and modernize the states created from the break-up of the former soviet union by bringing in free markets and pro-democracy reforms .
the russia-georgia war last august over the breakaway province of south ossetia further underscored the eu 's need to " engage more deeply with its eastern neighbors to stabilize the region , " says sabine fischer , a russia and cis expert at the eu institute for security studies -lrb- euiss -rrb- in paris . then there is belarus , formerly called belorussia or white russia , which the eu has long regarded as the black sheep of the post-soviet cis states .
its president alexander lukashenko , who earned the reputation of being " europe 's last dictator " for his government 's dubious human rights record , had even been placed under an eu travel ban , which was lifted last october .
but now that lukaschenko has said he wants to normalize " difficult " relations with the eu , belarus has been invited to participate in the prague summit on a technical level .
however lukaschenko himself will not attend the summit sending instead his deputy vladimir semachko .
russia makes some noise bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : russian foreign minister sergey lavrov speaks out at last month 's annual brussels forum meeting in brussels since belarus is one of the kremlin 's closest allies , russia foreign minister sergei lavrov expressed his dismay over the eastern partnership at a meeting with eu diplomats in luxembourg on april 28 , saying that " any processes leading to developments within the eu … should ensure no overlap in the post-soviet area . " although moscow 's political leaders see an encroachment on their former " sphere of influence " , their bark is louder than their bite , according to russia analysts .
" russia 's political leadership does not really feel threatened by the eu 's rapprochement with the post-soviet states , " said fischer .
" its leaders are more relaxed with the eu , as opposed to nato , " she added .
stefan meister of the german council on foreign relations -lrb- dgap -rrb- who sees the eastern partnership as a regional grouping similar to the mediterranean union , thinks that lavrov might have felt slighted by being left out of the new initiative .
" but he also understands that this can be a typical eu initiative with a lot of talk , but maybe not much happening , " he said .
extension of existing eu structure the eastern partnership , which would be embedded in an existing structure called the european neighbourhood policy -lrb- enp -rrb- , emerged last year as the brainchild of poland and sweden .
enp was created in 2004 when the eu expanded eastwards to include the former soviet satellite states in the bloc , whose membership jumped from 15 to 25 .
romania and bulgaria later joined the eu in 2007 .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : south ossetian separatist fighters celebrate russian recognition of the breakaway georgian territories of south ossetia and abkhazia its initial objective was to minimize the impact of a new iron curtain between the enlarged eu and the neighboring post-soviet states even further east , by offering a privileged partnership based on a commitment to democratic values and market principles .
the eastern partnership builds up a stronger regional dimension that goes further than the enp , says oksana antonenko , a senior russia analyst at the international institute for strategic studies in london .
enp offers bilateral relations with all countries that border the entire eu by land and sea , including the mediterranean union countries , whereas the ep is a multilateral agreement involving only six countries , she explained .
" the ep opens the door to potentially deeper multi-speed integration with the eu on matters such as visa-free travel or free trade , " said antonenko , who explained that member states could keep progressing to a higher level of cooperation with the eu " a la carte " on a specific issue .
not a stepping stone to join the eu the partnership offers carrots to encourage political and economic reforms , but it is not a stepping stone to eventual eu membership , says dgap 's meister , who characterizes the ep as an alternative to joining the eu .
" it brings the six -lrb- cis -rrb- states closer to the value system of the eu and offers them something like a customs union , but maybe not what they really want - the perspective of eu membership down the road , " he said .
ukraine is eager to join the eu club , but the bloc is suffering from enlargement fatigue and the lisbon treaty , that is supposed to streamline decision-making , still hangs in the balance . one of the lisbon treaty 's goals is to create a more permanent eu presidency filled by a high profile politician for a period of two-and-a-half years to replace the current six month rotating system . when the czech term ends at the end of june , the swedes will take over , a stroke of luck for the eastern partnership , according to fischer .
" the swedes are going to put a strong emphasis on this -lrb- northeastern -rrb- region , " she said .
" after all , the ep was their initiative . " author : diana fong editor : susan houlton send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
focus wikileaks read our dw-world focus on the latest wikileaks revelations and their impact around the globe .
african aid germany has been slow to react to the way china and others are changing the rules on aid for africa .
watch the video learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan new web site check out deutsche welle 's new asia page in english .
dw asia online latin america take a multimedia journey discover the region and its people news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's newest media partner © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
prague summit to launch " eastern partnership " -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 14.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de european ties -pipe- 07.05.2009 prague summit to launch " eastern partnership " großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the " eastern partnership " is the brain child of poland and sweden good neighborhood policy is normally on the agenda of the eu rotating presidency .
but the nation at the helm determines which neighbors take priority .
that sweden takes over soon is good news for the eu 's eastern flank . when france was in charge during the second half of 2008 , president nicolas sarkozy made relations with his country 's mediterranean rim neighbors the cornerstone of his six month eu presidency .
membership in sarkozy 's " club med " was based on sharing a common mediterranean coastline , so morocco , turkey , israel and syria met the geographical criteria .
the idea was to provide an eu-mediterranean forum for tackling regional issues such as illegal boat migration from africa , combating terrorism and cleaning up the polluted sea .
the mediterranean union 's inaugural summit last july represented a milestone in bringing the heads of state of israel and its middle east adversaries together in paris , but the french eu initiative had already lost steam by the start of the czech republic 's presidency in january 2009 .
now with less than two months left of prague 's beleaguered eu presidency , the 27 nation bloc 's priorities have shifted northwards and eastwards geographically .
czech prime minister mirek topolanek was ousted last month and will be replaced on may 8 by an interim government .
topolanek 's successor jan fischer takes over the day after the eu launches its " eastern partnership " -lrb- ep -rrb- with six post-soviet states- armenia , azerbaijan , belarus , georgia , moldova and ukraine- at a summit in prague on may 7 .
eu wants stable eastern neighbors bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : eu commission president jose manuel barroso and his commissioners do n't want a new " iron curtain " eu officials say that the goal of the initiative is to help stabilize and modernize the states created from the break-up of the former soviet union by bringing in free markets and pro-democracy reforms .
the russia-georgia war last august over the breakaway province of south ossetia further underscored the eu 's need to " engage more deeply with its eastern neighbors to stabilize the region , " says sabine fischer , a russia and cis expert at the eu institute for security studies -lrb- euiss -rrb- in paris . then there is belarus , formerly called belorussia or white russia , which the eu has long regarded as the black sheep of the post-soviet cis states .
its president alexander lukashenko , who earned the reputation of being " europe 's last dictator " for his government 's dubious human rights record , had even been placed under an eu travel ban , which was lifted last october .
but now that lukaschenko has said he wants to normalize " difficult " relations with the eu , belarus has been invited to participate in the prague summit on a technical level .
however lukaschenko himself will not attend the summit sending instead his deputy vladimir semachko .
russia makes some noise bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : russian foreign minister sergey lavrov speaks out at last month 's annual brussels forum meeting in brussels since belarus is one of the kremlin 's closest allies , russia foreign minister sergei lavrov expressed his dismay over the eastern partnership at a meeting with eu diplomats in luxembourg on april 28 , saying that " any processes leading to developments within the eu … should ensure no overlap in the post-soviet area . " although moscow 's political leaders see an encroachment on their former " sphere of influence " , their bark is louder than their bite , according to russia analysts .
" russia 's political leadership does not really feel threatened by the eu 's rapprochement with the post-soviet states , " said fischer .
" its leaders are more relaxed with the eu , as opposed to nato , " she added .
stefan meister of the german council on foreign relations -lrb- dgap -rrb- who sees the eastern partnership as a regional grouping similar to the mediterranean union , thinks that lavrov might have felt slighted by being left out of the new initiative .
" but he also understands that this can be a typical eu initiative with a lot of talk , but maybe not much happening , " he said .
extension of existing eu structure the eastern partnership , which would be embedded in an existing structure called the european neighbourhood policy -lrb- enp -rrb- , emerged last year as the brainchild of poland and sweden .
enp was created in 2004 when the eu expanded eastwards to include the former soviet satellite states in the bloc , whose membership jumped from 15 to 25 .
romania and bulgaria later joined the eu in 2007 .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : south ossetian separatist fighters celebrate russian recognition of the breakaway georgian territories of south ossetia and abkhazia its initial objective was to minimize the impact of a new iron curtain between the enlarged eu and the neighboring post-soviet states even further east , by offering a privileged partnership based on a commitment to democratic values and market principles .
the eastern partnership builds up a stronger regional dimension that goes further than the enp , says oksana antonenko , a senior russia analyst at the international institute for strategic studies in london .
enp offers bilateral relations with all countries that border the entire eu by land and sea , including the mediterranean union countries , whereas the ep is a multilateral agreement involving only six countries , she explained .
" the ep opens the door to potentially deeper multi-speed integration with the eu on matters such as visa-free travel or free trade , " said antonenko , who explained that member states could keep progressing to a higher level of cooperation with the eu " a la carte " on a specific issue .
not a stepping stone to join the eu the partnership offers carrots to encourage political and economic reforms , but it is not a stepping stone to eventual eu membership , says dgap 's meister , who characterizes the ep as an alternative to joining the eu .
" it brings the six -lrb- cis -rrb- states closer to the value system of the eu and offers them something like a customs union , but maybe not what they really want - the perspective of eu membership down the road , " he said .
ukraine is eager to join the eu club , but the bloc is suffering from enlargement fatigue and the lisbon treaty , that is supposed to streamline decision-making , still hangs in the balance . one of the lisbon treaty 's goals is to create a more permanent eu presidency filled by a high profile politician for a period of two-and-a-half years to replace the current six month rotating system . when the czech term ends at the end of june , the swedes will take over , a stroke of luck for the eastern partnership , according to fischer .
" the swedes are going to put a strong emphasis on this -lrb- northeastern -rrb- region , " she said .
" after all , the ep was their initiative . " author : diana fong editor : susan houlton send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ? 9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
cairo crisis egypt 's military council has warned protesters it will move in to break up the demonstrations .
watch the video in depth focus on libya dw-world looks at the turmoil in libya : what it means for tripoli and the rest of the world .
international conference media representatives around the world gather in bonn to discuss human rights .
podcast series by teaching stand-up comedy , bryan encourages his students to discover their talents .
download the report subscribe to the series on itunes past episodes learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
georgian opposition clash with police as nato war games begin -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 14.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de georgia -pipe- 07.05.2009 georgian opposition clash with police as nato war games begin großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the nato military exercises that include computer training have flared tensions with georgia 's former soviet master , russia .
riot police in georgia clashed with anti-government officials during a late night rally , attempting to disrupt the kick off of nato 's controversial military exercises . it was the first major outbreak of violence in what 's now been a month of demonstrations against georgia 's president in the capital , tbilisi .
thousands of protestors converged on parliament to demand president mikhail saakashvili 's resignation , as well as the release of three jailed supporters .
georgia 's interior ministry spokesman shota utiashvili said police used truncheons to beat back protesters who were climbing over a fence surrounding the building .
nato exercises reignite georgia-russia tension the month-long nato training activities began on wednesday , and are part of a simulated crisis response operation and peacekeeping exercises .
they will involve at least 1,100 soldiers from 10 nato countries and six of the alliance 's " partner " countries .
the military exercises are being held at a georgian military base formerly used by the russian air force .
the operations have strained ties further between the ex-soviet georgia and its cold war-era rival .
russia fiercely objects to georgia hosting the operation , saying it threatens stability in the region .
earlier in the week , georgia accused russia of backing a brief military mutiny that allegedly included a plot to assassinate the president . cg / rm , reuters / afp / ap send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de nato denies georgia war-games agenda russian anger simmers as a month of partnership for peace -lrb- pfp -rrb- military exercises featuring nato states starts in georgia .
but nato claims that there is no agenda and that moscow was fully informed .
-lrb- 05.05.2009 -rrb- nato expels russian diplomats from brussels amid spying row nato has ordered the expulsion of two diplomats from russia 's nato mission in connection with a spy scandal - a move moscow calls a " provocation . " -lrb- 30.04.2009 -rrb- nato and russia resume formal ties after an eight-month freeze , nato and russia have once again taken up official relations .
but while a dialogue has resumed , disagreement between the two sides still exists .
-lrb- 29.04.2009 -rrb- 9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
cairo crisis egypt 's military council has warned protesters it will move in to break up the demonstrations .
watch the video in depth focus on libya dw-world looks at the turmoil in libya : what it means for tripoli and the rest of the world .
international conference media representatives around the world gather in bonn to discuss human rights .
podcast series by teaching stand-up comedy , bryan encourages his students to discover their talents .
download the report subscribe to the series on itunes past episodes learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
georgian opposition clash with police as nato war games begin -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 22.09.2010 home news germany europe world from tierra del fuego to tijuana asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de georgia -pipe- 07.05.2009 georgian opposition clash with police as nato war games begin großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the nato military exercises that include computer training have flared tensions with georgia 's former soviet master , russia .
riot police in georgia clashed with anti-government officials during a late night rally , attempting to disrupt the kick off of nato 's controversial military exercises . it was the first major outbreak of violence in what 's now been a month of demonstrations against georgia 's president in the capital , tbilisi .
thousands of protestors converged on parliament to demand president mikhail saakashvili 's resignation , as well as the release of three jailed supporters .
georgia 's interior ministry spokesman shota utiashvili said police used truncheons to beat back protesters who were climbing over a fence surrounding the building .
nato exercises reignite georgia-russia tension the month-long nato training activities began on wednesday , and are part of a simulated crisis response operation and peacekeeping exercises .
they will involve at least 1,100 soldiers from 10 nato countries and six of the alliance 's " partner " countries .
the military exercises are being held at a georgian military base formerly used by the russian air force .
the operations have strained ties further between the ex-soviet georgia and its cold war-era rival .
russia fiercely objects to georgia hosting the operation , saying it threatens stability in the region .
earlier in the week , georgia accused russia of backing a brief military mutiny that allegedly included a plot to assassinate the president . cg / rm , reuters / afp / ap send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de nato denies georgia war-games agenda russian anger simmers as a month of partnership for peace -lrb- pfp -rrb- military exercises featuring nato states starts in georgia .
but nato claims that there is no agenda and that moscow was fully informed .
-lrb- 05.05.2009 -rrb- nato expels russian diplomats from brussels amid spying row nato has ordered the expulsion of two diplomats from russia 's nato mission in connection with a spy scandal - a move moscow calls a " provocation . " -lrb- 30.04.2009 -rrb- nato and russia resume formal ties after an eight-month freeze , nato and russia have once again taken up official relations .
but while a dialogue has resumed , disagreement between the two sides still exists .
-lrb- 29.04.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live in focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live spectrum listen live nuclear weapons israel is under pressure from neighbors to reveal more about its own nuclear weapons program listen to the report learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan new web site check out deutsche welle 's new asia page in english .
dw asia online news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's newest media partner latin america take a multimedia journey discover the region and its people © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
georgian opposition clash with police as nato war games begin -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 06.11.2010 home news germany europe world from tierra del fuego to tijuana asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de georgia -pipe- 07.05.2009 georgian opposition clash with police as nato war games begin großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the nato military exercises that include computer training have flared tensions with georgia 's former soviet master , russia .
riot police in georgia clashed with anti-government officials during a late night rally , attempting to disrupt the kick off of nato 's controversial military exercises . it was the first major outbreak of violence in what 's now been a month of demonstrations against georgia 's president in the capital , tbilisi .
thousands of protestors converged on parliament to demand president mikhail saakashvili 's resignation , as well as the release of three jailed supporters .
georgia 's interior ministry spokesman shota utiashvili said police used truncheons to beat back protesters who were climbing over a fence surrounding the building .
nato exercises reignite georgia-russia tension the month-long nato training activities began on wednesday , and are part of a simulated crisis response operation and peacekeeping exercises .
they will involve at least 1,100 soldiers from 10 nato countries and six of the alliance 's " partner " countries .
the military exercises are being held at a georgian military base formerly used by the russian air force .
the operations have strained ties further between the ex-soviet georgia and its cold war-era rival .
russia fiercely objects to georgia hosting the operation , saying it threatens stability in the region .
earlier in the week , georgia accused russia of backing a brief military mutiny that allegedly included a plot to assassinate the president . cg / rm , reuters / afp / ap send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de nato denies georgia war-games agenda russian anger simmers as a month of partnership for peace -lrb- pfp -rrb- military exercises featuring nato states starts in georgia .
but nato claims that there is no agenda and that moscow was fully informed .
-lrb- 05.05.2009 -rrb- nato expels russian diplomats from brussels amid spying row nato has ordered the expulsion of two diplomats from russia 's nato mission in connection with a spy scandal - a move moscow calls a " provocation . " -lrb- 30.04.2009 -rrb- nato and russia resume formal ties after an eight-month freeze , nato and russia have once again taken up official relations .
but while a dialogue has resumed , disagreement between the two sides still exists .
-lrb- 29.04.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live kultur.21 we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live in-box feedback from around the world listen live learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan new web site check out deutsche welle 's new asia page in english .
dw asia online news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's newest media partner latin america take a multimedia journey discover the region and its people © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
georgian opposition clash with police as nato war games begin -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 19.12.2010 home news germany europe world from tierra del fuego to tijuana asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de georgia -pipe- 07.05.2009 georgian opposition clash with police as nato war games begin großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the nato military exercises that include computer training have flared tensions with georgia 's former soviet master , russia .
riot police in georgia clashed with anti-government officials during a late night rally , attempting to disrupt the kick off of nato 's controversial military exercises . it was the first major outbreak of violence in what 's now been a month of demonstrations against georgia 's president in the capital , tbilisi .
thousands of protestors converged on parliament to demand president mikhail saakashvili 's resignation , as well as the release of three jailed supporters .
georgia 's interior ministry spokesman shota utiashvili said police used truncheons to beat back protesters who were climbing over a fence surrounding the building .
nato exercises reignite georgia-russia tension the month-long nato training activities began on wednesday , and are part of a simulated crisis response operation and peacekeeping exercises .
they will involve at least 1,100 soldiers from 10 nato countries and six of the alliance 's " partner " countries .
the military exercises are being held at a georgian military base formerly used by the russian air force .
the operations have strained ties further between the ex-soviet georgia and its cold war-era rival .
russia fiercely objects to georgia hosting the operation , saying it threatens stability in the region .
earlier in the week , georgia accused russia of backing a brief military mutiny that allegedly included a plot to assassinate the president . cg / rm , reuters / afp / ap send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de nato denies georgia war-games agenda russian anger simmers as a month of partnership for peace -lrb- pfp -rrb- military exercises featuring nato states starts in georgia .
but nato claims that there is no agenda and that moscow was fully informed .
-lrb- 05.05.2009 -rrb- nato expels russian diplomats from brussels amid spying row nato has ordered the expulsion of two diplomats from russia 's nato mission in connection with a spy scandal - a move moscow calls a " provocation . " -lrb- 30.04.2009 -rrb- nato and russia resume formal ties after an eight-month freeze , nato and russia have once again taken up official relations .
but while a dialogue has resumed , disagreement between the two sides still exists .
-lrb- 29.04.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
focus wikileaks read our dw-world focus on the latest wikileaks revelations and their impact around the globe .
african aid germany has been slow to react to the way china and others are changing the rules on aid for africa .
watch the video learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan new web site check out deutsche welle 's new asia page in english .
dw asia online latin america take a multimedia journey discover the region and its people news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's newest media partner © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
iceland 's new government plans a bid for eu membership -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 29.03.2011 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de european union -pipe- 07.05.2009 iceland 's new government plans a bid for eu membership großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : iceland wants to join the 27-member bloc iceland is preparing a bid for entry into the european union , just two weeks after the country 's new left-wing government was elected into power . the country ’ s prime minister johanna sigurdardottir announced on state television that she would present a parliamentary bill to authorize the start of membership talks with the european union .
" there will be a government resolution tabled -lrb- on eu talks -rrb- , " prime minister johanna sigurdardottir said .
she did not give a timeframe for when the bill would be put forward , but it ’ s expected that the draft could be introduced as early as next week when parliament convenes . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : johanna sigurdardottir says that eu membership is vital for iceland the move is a u-turn for the small northern atlantic island and it ’ s a development which would have been unthinkable only one year ago .
but then the financial crisis struck and the small country was turned upside down .
on the brink of bankruptcy long before the recession arrived in europe and the us , iceland in the summer of 2008 was already in serious trouble .
late last year the country made headlines as it veered toward bankruptcy .
before the sudden downturn , iceland had been thriving , it ’ s people enjoying a living standard among the highest in the world .
the country ’ s banks epitomized the global credit boom and the capital reykjavik became a hub of international finance .
banks expanded overseas and enjoyed exceptional growth .
on the eve of the credit crunch , iceland ’ s banks held foreign assets worth around ten times the country ’ s gdp .
in 2007 , gdp amounted to around $ 11 billion .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : iceland 's kaupthing bank is now run by the governemt iceland was therefore extremely vulnerable to any disruptions on the international financial markets and when the crisis eventually hit , the country went into a tailspin .
the icelandic crown virtually ceased trading and strict capital control had to be introduced to sustain even the import of vital goods such as food and medicine .
the country 's top banks were all nationalized and iceland needed a $ 10 billion rescue package from the international monetary fund to stay afloat .
painful reforms are underway but unemployment is still on the rise and the economic outlook remains gloomy .
public pressure and growing support for eu membership it was not long until the trouble on the balance sheets translated onto the streets .
in a wave of unrest , citizens expressed their anger and frustration at the government 's handling of affairs .
the country was then run by a coalition headed by the center-right independence party which had dominated icelandic politics for decades .
but after months of increasingly violent protests , the government collapsed early this year .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : popular protests brought down the old government in january 2009 new elections in april saw the social democrats emerge as the strongest party and their leader johanna sigurdardottir became the country 's new prime minister .
the 66-year old left little doubt that she wanted to steer her country closer toward the eu .
" it 's the only option we have to safeguard economic stability in the country , " she said after the elections .
the social democrats ' junior coalition partner , the left-greens , had previously opposed a move toward the european union over fears that reykjavik would have to surrender some of its independence to brussels .
however , many of iceland 's 320,000 inhabitants support the idea of joining the eu and ultimately adopting the euro currency .
a snap opinion poll for state television on wednesday showed that 61.2 percent were in favor of eu talks and only 29.6 percent against it . cg / ai , reuters / dpa send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de albania submits bid for european union membership albania has announced it will apply for membership to the 27-member european union .
but european leaders warn the country has a long road ahead of it before it 's ready to join the bloc .
-lrb- 28.04.2009 -rrb- iceland 's interim leftist government wins resounding election victory iceland 's interim leftist government won a resounding victory in this weekend 's general election as voters punished the conservatives they blame for the country 's economic meltdown seven months ago .
-lrb- 26.04.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
italians hard hit by plastic bag ban east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
iceland 's new government plans a bid for eu membership -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.12.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de european union -pipe- 07.05.2009 iceland 's new government plans a bid for eu membership großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : iceland wants to join the 27-member bloc iceland is preparing a bid for entry into the european union , just two weeks after the country 's new left-wing government was elected into power . the country ’ s prime minister johanna sigurdardottir announced on state television that she would present a parliamentary bill to authorize the start of membership talks with the european union .
" there will be a government resolution tabled -lrb- on eu talks -rrb- , " prime minister johanna sigurdardottir said .
she did not give a timeframe for when the bill would be put forward , but it ’ s expected that the draft could be introduced as early as next week when parliament convenes . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : johanna sigurdardottir says that eu membership is vital for iceland the move is a u-turn for the small northern atlantic island and it ’ s a development which would have been unthinkable only one year ago .
but then the financial crisis struck and the small country was turned upside down .
on the brink of bankruptcy long before the recession arrived in europe and the us , iceland in the summer of 2008 was already in serious trouble .
late last year the country made headlines as it veered toward bankruptcy .
before the sudden downturn , iceland had been thriving , it ’ s people enjoying a living standard among the highest in the world .
the country ’ s banks epitomized the global credit boom and the capital reykjavik became a hub of international finance .
banks expanded overseas and enjoyed exceptional growth .
on the eve of the credit crunch , iceland ’ s banks held foreign assets worth around ten times the country ’ s gdp .
in 2007 , gdp amounted to around $ 11 billion .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : iceland 's kaupthing bank is now run by the governemt iceland was therefore extremely vulnerable to any disruptions on the international financial markets and when the crisis eventually hit , the country went into a tailspin .
the icelandic crown virtually ceased trading and strict capital control had to be introduced to sustain even the import of vital goods such as food and medicine .
the country 's top banks were all nationalized and iceland needed a $ 10 billion rescue package from the international monetary fund to stay afloat .
painful reforms are underway but unemployment is still on the rise and the economic outlook remains gloomy .
public pressure and growing support for eu membership it was not long until the trouble on the balance sheets translated onto the streets .
in a wave of unrest , citizens expressed their anger and frustration at the government 's handling of affairs .
the country was then run by a coalition headed by the center-right independence party which had dominated icelandic politics for decades .
but after months of increasingly violent protests , the government collapsed early this year .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : popular protests brought down the old government in january 2009 new elections in april saw the social democrats emerge as the strongest party and their leader johanna sigurdardottir became the country 's new prime minister .
the 66-year old left little doubt that she wanted to steer her country closer toward the eu .
" it 's the only option we have to safeguard economic stability in the country , " she said after the elections .
the social democrats ' junior coalition partner , the left-greens , had previously opposed a move toward the european union over fears that reykjavik would have to surrender some of its independence to brussels .
however , many of iceland 's 320,000 inhabitants support the idea of joining the eu and ultimately adopting the euro currency .
a snap opinion poll for state television on wednesday showed that 61.2 percent were in favor of eu talks and only 29.6 percent against it . cg / ai , reuters / dpa send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de albania submits bid for european union membership albania has announced it will apply for membership to the 27-member european union .
but european leaders warn the country has a long road ahead of it before it 's ready to join the bloc .
-lrb- 28.04.2009 -rrb- iceland 's interim leftist government wins resounding election victory iceland 's interim leftist government won a resounding victory in this weekend 's general election as voters punished the conservatives they blame for the country 's economic meltdown seven months ago .
-lrb- 26.04.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live learning by ear listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
iceland 's new government plans a bid for eu membership -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 14.01.2011 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de european union -pipe- 07.05.2009 iceland 's new government plans a bid for eu membership großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : iceland wants to join the 27-member bloc iceland is preparing a bid for entry into the european union , just two weeks after the country 's new left-wing government was elected into power . the country ’ s prime minister johanna sigurdardottir announced on state television that she would present a parliamentary bill to authorize the start of membership talks with the european union .
" there will be a government resolution tabled -lrb- on eu talks -rrb- , " prime minister johanna sigurdardottir said .
she did not give a timeframe for when the bill would be put forward , but it ’ s expected that the draft could be introduced as early as next week when parliament convenes . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : johanna sigurdardottir says that eu membership is vital for iceland the move is a u-turn for the small northern atlantic island and it ’ s a development which would have been unthinkable only one year ago .
but then the financial crisis struck and the small country was turned upside down .
on the brink of bankruptcy long before the recession arrived in europe and the us , iceland in the summer of 2008 was already in serious trouble .
late last year the country made headlines as it veered toward bankruptcy .
before the sudden downturn , iceland had been thriving , it ’ s people enjoying a living standard among the highest in the world .
the country ’ s banks epitomized the global credit boom and the capital reykjavik became a hub of international finance .
banks expanded overseas and enjoyed exceptional growth .
on the eve of the credit crunch , iceland ’ s banks held foreign assets worth around ten times the country ’ s gdp .
in 2007 , gdp amounted to around $ 11 billion .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : iceland 's kaupthing bank is now run by the governemt iceland was therefore extremely vulnerable to any disruptions on the international financial markets and when the crisis eventually hit , the country went into a tailspin .
the icelandic crown virtually ceased trading and strict capital control had to be introduced to sustain even the import of vital goods such as food and medicine .
the country 's top banks were all nationalized and iceland needed a $ 10 billion rescue package from the international monetary fund to stay afloat .
painful reforms are underway but unemployment is still on the rise and the economic outlook remains gloomy .
public pressure and growing support for eu membership it was not long until the trouble on the balance sheets translated onto the streets .
in a wave of unrest , citizens expressed their anger and frustration at the government 's handling of affairs .
the country was then run by a coalition headed by the center-right independence party which had dominated icelandic politics for decades .
but after months of increasingly violent protests , the government collapsed early this year .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : popular protests brought down the old government in january 2009 new elections in april saw the social democrats emerge as the strongest party and their leader johanna sigurdardottir became the country 's new prime minister .
the 66-year old left little doubt that she wanted to steer her country closer toward the eu .
" it 's the only option we have to safeguard economic stability in the country , " she said after the elections .
the social democrats ' junior coalition partner , the left-greens , had previously opposed a move toward the european union over fears that reykjavik would have to surrender some of its independence to brussels .
however , many of iceland 's 320,000 inhabitants support the idea of joining the eu and ultimately adopting the euro currency .
a snap opinion poll for state television on wednesday showed that 61.2 percent were in favor of eu talks and only 29.6 percent against it . cg / ai , reuters / dpa send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de albania submits bid for european union membership albania has announced it will apply for membership to the 27-member european union .
but european leaders warn the country has a long road ahead of it before it 's ready to join the bloc .
-lrb- 28.04.2009 -rrb- iceland 's interim leftist government wins resounding election victory iceland 's interim leftist government won a resounding victory in this weekend 's general election as voters punished the conservatives they blame for the country 's economic meltdown seven months ago .
-lrb- 26.04.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live people and politics we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live living planet venice 's sea wall , fish conflict-mediation , industrial agriculture , rwandan methane listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
italians hard hit by plastic bag ban east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
iceland 's new government plans a bid for eu membership -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 05.11.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de european union -pipe- 07.05.2009 iceland 's new government plans a bid for eu membership großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : iceland wants to join the 27-member bloc iceland is preparing a bid for entry into the european union , just two weeks after the country 's new left-wing government was elected into power . the country ’ s prime minister johanna sigurdardottir announced on state television that she would present a parliamentary bill to authorize the start of membership talks with the european union .
" there will be a government resolution tabled -lrb- on eu talks -rrb- , " prime minister johanna sigurdardottir said .
she did not give a timeframe for when the bill would be put forward , but it ’ s expected that the draft could be introduced as early as next week when parliament convenes . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : johanna sigurdardottir says that eu membership is vital for iceland the move is a u-turn for the small northern atlantic island and it ’ s a development which would have been unthinkable only one year ago .
but then the financial crisis struck and the small country was turned upside down .
on the brink of bankruptcy long before the recession arrived in europe and the us , iceland in the summer of 2008 was already in serious trouble .
late last year the country made headlines as it veered toward bankruptcy .
before the sudden downturn , iceland had been thriving , it ’ s people enjoying a living standard among the highest in the world .
the country ’ s banks epitomized the global credit boom and the capital reykjavik became a hub of international finance .
banks expanded overseas and enjoyed exceptional growth .
on the eve of the credit crunch , iceland ’ s banks held foreign assets worth around ten times the country ’ s gdp .
in 2007 , gdp amounted to around $ 11 billion .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : iceland 's kaupthing bank is now run by the governemt iceland was therefore extremely vulnerable to any disruptions on the international financial markets and when the crisis eventually hit , the country went into a tailspin .
the icelandic crown virtually ceased trading and strict capital control had to be introduced to sustain even the import of vital goods such as food and medicine .
the country 's top banks were all nationalized and iceland needed a $ 10 billion rescue package from the international monetary fund to stay afloat .
painful reforms are underway but unemployment is still on the rise and the economic outlook remains gloomy .
public pressure and growing support for eu membership it was not long until the trouble on the balance sheets translated onto the streets .
in a wave of unrest , citizens expressed their anger and frustration at the government 's handling of affairs .
the country was then run by a coalition headed by the center-right independence party which had dominated icelandic politics for decades .
but after months of increasingly violent protests , the government collapsed early this year .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : popular protests brought down the old government in january 2009 new elections in april saw the social democrats emerge as the strongest party and their leader johanna sigurdardottir became the country 's new prime minister .
the 66-year old left little doubt that she wanted to steer her country closer toward the eu .
" it 's the only option we have to safeguard economic stability in the country , " she said after the elections .
the social democrats ' junior coalition partner , the left-greens , had previously opposed a move toward the european union over fears that reykjavik would have to surrender some of its independence to brussels .
however , many of iceland 's 320,000 inhabitants support the idea of joining the eu and ultimately adopting the euro currency .
a snap opinion poll for state television on wednesday showed that 61.2 percent were in favor of eu talks and only 29.6 percent against it . cg / ai , reuters / dpa send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de albania submits bid for european union membership albania has announced it will apply for membership to the 27-member european union .
but european leaders warn the country has a long road ahead of it before it 's ready to join the bloc .
-lrb- 28.04.2009 -rrb- iceland 's interim leftist government wins resounding election victory iceland 's interim leftist government won a resounding victory in this weekend 's general election as voters punished the conservatives they blame for the country 's economic meltdown seven months ago .
-lrb- 26.04.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live living planet humans relations with animals listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
postcard from europe : the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
iceland 's new government plans a bid for eu membership -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 25.09.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de european union -pipe- 07.05.2009 iceland 's new government plans a bid for eu membership großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : iceland wants to join the 27-member bloc iceland is preparing a bid for entry into the european union , just two weeks after the country 's new left-wing government was elected into power . the country ’ s prime minister johanna sigurdardottir announced on state television that she would present a parliamentary bill to authorize the start of membership talks with the european union .
" there will be a government resolution tabled -lrb- on eu talks -rrb- , " prime minister johanna sigurdardottir said .
she did not give a timeframe for when the bill would be put forward , but it ’ s expected that the draft could be introduced as early as next week when parliament convenes . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : johanna sigurdardottir says that eu membership is vital for iceland the move is a u-turn for the small northern atlantic island and it ’ s a development which would have been unthinkable only one year ago .
but then the financial crisis struck and the small country was turned upside down .
on the brink of bankruptcy long before the recession arrived in europe and the us , iceland in the summer of 2008 was already in serious trouble .
late last year the country made headlines as it veered toward bankruptcy .
before the sudden downturn , iceland had been thriving , it ’ s people enjoying a living standard among the highest in the world .
the country ’ s banks epitomized the global credit boom and the capital reykjavik became a hub of international finance .
banks expanded overseas and enjoyed exceptional growth .
on the eve of the credit crunch , iceland ’ s banks held foreign assets worth around ten times the country ’ s gdp .
in 2007 , gdp amounted to around $ 11 billion .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : iceland 's kaupthing bank is now run by the governemt iceland was therefore extremely vulnerable to any disruptions on the international financial markets and when the crisis eventually hit , the country went into a tailspin .
the icelandic crown virtually ceased trading and strict capital control had to be introduced to sustain even the import of vital goods such as food and medicine .
the country 's top banks were all nationalized and iceland needed a $ 10 billion rescue package from the international monetary fund to stay afloat .
painful reforms are underway but unemployment is still on the rise and the economic outlook remains gloomy .
public pressure and growing support for eu membership it was not long until the trouble on the balance sheets translated onto the streets .
in a wave of unrest , citizens expressed their anger and frustration at the government 's handling of affairs .
the country was then run by a coalition headed by the center-right independence party which had dominated icelandic politics for decades .
but after months of increasingly violent protests , the government collapsed early this year .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : popular protests brought down the old government in january 2009 new elections in april saw the social democrats emerge as the strongest party and their leader johanna sigurdardottir became the country 's new prime minister .
the 66-year old left little doubt that she wanted to steer her country closer toward the eu .
" it 's the only option we have to safeguard economic stability in the country , " she said after the elections .
the social democrats ' junior coalition partner , the left-greens , had previously opposed a move toward the european union over fears that reykjavik would have to surrender some of its independence to brussels .
however , many of iceland 's 320,000 inhabitants support the idea of joining the eu and ultimately adopting the euro currency .
a snap opinion poll for state television on wednesday showed that 61.2 percent were in favor of eu talks and only 29.6 percent against it . cg / ai , reuters / dpa send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de albania submits bid for european union membership albania has announced it will apply for membership to the 27-member european union .
but european leaders warn the country has a long road ahead of it before it 's ready to join the bloc .
-lrb- 28.04.2009 -rrb- iceland 's interim leftist government wins resounding election victory iceland 's interim leftist government won a resounding victory in this weekend 's general election as voters punished the conservatives they blame for the country 's economic meltdown seven months ago .
-lrb- 26.04.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live popxport we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inside europe listen live people natascha kampusch , the austrian who was kept prisoner from age 10 to 18 , publishes her autobigraphy .
listen to the report postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
postcard from europe : betancourt book sparks controversy in france postcard from europe : technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket are the gay games necessary ?
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
iceland 's new government plans a bid for eu membership -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de european union -pipe- 07.05.2009 iceland 's new government plans a bid for eu membership großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : iceland wants to join the 27-member bloc iceland is preparing a bid for entry into the european union , just two weeks after the country 's new left-wing government was elected into power . the country ’ s prime minister johanna sigurdardottir announced on state television that she would present a parliamentary bill to authorize the start of membership talks with the european union .
" there will be a government resolution tabled -lrb- on eu talks -rrb- , " prime minister johanna sigurdardottir said .
she did not give a timeframe for when the bill would be put forward , but it ’ s expected that the draft could be introduced as early as next week when parliament convenes . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : johanna sigurdardottir says that eu membership is vital for iceland the move is a u-turn for the small northern atlantic island and it ’ s a development which would have been unthinkable only one year ago .
but then the financial crisis struck and the small country was turned upside down .
on the brink of bankruptcy long before the recession arrived in europe and the us , iceland in the summer of 2008 was already in serious trouble .
late last year the country made headlines as it veered toward bankruptcy .
before the sudden downturn , iceland had been thriving , it ’ s people enjoying a living standard among the highest in the world .
the country ’ s banks epitomized the global credit boom and the capital reykjavik became a hub of international finance .
banks expanded overseas and enjoyed exceptional growth .
on the eve of the credit crunch , iceland ’ s banks held foreign assets worth around ten times the country ’ s gdp .
in 2007 , gdp amounted to around $ 11 billion .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : iceland 's kaupthing bank is now run by the governemt iceland was therefore extremely vulnerable to any disruptions on the international financial markets and when the crisis eventually hit , the country went into a tailspin .
the icelandic crown virtually ceased trading and strict capital control had to be introduced to sustain even the import of vital goods such as food and medicine .
the country 's top banks were all nationalized and iceland needed a $ 10 billion rescue package from the international monetary fund to stay afloat .
painful reforms are underway but unemployment is still on the rise and the economic outlook remains gloomy .
public pressure and growing support for eu membership it was not long until the trouble on the balance sheets translated onto the streets .
in a wave of unrest , citizens expressed their anger and frustration at the government 's handling of affairs .
the country was then run by a coalition headed by the center-right independence party which had dominated icelandic politics for decades .
but after months of increasingly violent protests , the government collapsed early this year .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : popular protests brought down the old government in january 2009 new elections in april saw the social democrats emerge as the strongest party and their leader johanna sigurdardottir became the country 's new prime minister .
the 66-year old left little doubt that she wanted to steer her country closer toward the eu .
" it 's the only option we have to safeguard economic stability in the country , " she said after the elections .
the social democrats ' junior coalition partner , the left-greens , had previously opposed a move toward the european union over fears that reykjavik would have to surrender some of its independence to brussels .
however , many of iceland 's 320,000 inhabitants support the idea of joining the eu and ultimately adopting the euro currency .
a snap opinion poll for state television on wednesday showed that 61.2 percent were in favor of eu talks and only 29.6 percent against it . cg / ai , reuters / dpa send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de albania submits bid for european union membership albania has announced it will apply for membership to the 27-member european union .
but european leaders warn the country has a long road ahead of it before it 's ready to join the bloc .
-lrb- 28.04.2009 -rrb- iceland 's interim leftist government wins resounding election victory iceland 's interim leftist government won a resounding victory in this weekend 's general election as voters punished the conservatives they blame for the country 's economic meltdown seven months ago .
-lrb- 26.04.2009 -rrb- 9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit tagesthema we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
unemployment facing high unemployment at home , many young spaniards are trying their luck in germany .
watch the video world war ii nazi leader adolf hitler 's austrian birthplace kicks him off its list of honorary citizens .
listen to the audio tour de danger two accidents involving media vehicles has some wondering if the tour de france is too dangerous .
listen to the audio transport with fuel prices at record highs , germans head to luxembourg to take advantage of low fuel tax .
listen to the audio inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
us-russia arms control deal first step towards global disarmament -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 29.03.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de defense -pipe- 07.05.2009 us-russia arms control deal first step towards global disarmament großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : moscow and washington want to curb nuclear proliferation us and russian officials will begin to negotiate a deal to cut their nuclear weapons arsenals in the coming weeks .
if they succeed , it could convince other nuclear powers to follow suit . the goal is clear and shared by both countries .
russia and the us want to reduce their number of nuclear missiles and replace the old bilateral start arms reduction treaty , which will expire at the end of the year , with a new arms control pact .
a preliminary meeting between the two sides has been described by the russian foreign ministry as " constructive " and " businesslike , " increasing the expectations for a positive outcome .
" i think generally the chances for success are very good " , says oliver meier , international representative of the arms control association .
" both sides on the major issues are really not far apart .
they have the same ideas in mind in terms of overall reductions in warheads , " he added .
" they have the same preferences in terms of having a legally binding , verifiable treaty .
the problem is that the timetable is very challenging because they are aiming for an agreement in the next couple of months and that will be very tough . "
if , as expected , it takes longer to solve the remaining differences , such as whether to include stored warheads as russia wants or not include them as the us wants , the existing start treaty could simply be extended beyond its expiration date at the end of the year .
as an alternative , another similar treaty could be signed until a more ambitious arms deal is reached in a second round of talks .
different categories of nuclear powers bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : barack obama has a long-term vision of a nuclear weapon free world while the prospects to strike a deal with russia look positive , president barack obama has a much loftier vision which he announced in his speech in prague in april : a world free of nuclear weapons .
but could a new arms control agreement between the us and russia , which combined possess at least 90 percent of all nuclear weapons , really put that much pressure on other nuclear powers and launch a global trend towards nuclear disarmament ?
miles pomper , a senior research associate at the center for non-proliferation studies , cautions against unrealistic expectations of a russian-american arms deal on other nations with nuclear weapons .
" what it might do is within the non-proliferation treaty process it would convince other countries of the goodwill of the united states and russia to meet their commitments to make steps toward nuclear disarmament and by doing that those other countries could increase the pressure on the irans and north koreas -lrb- of this world -rrb- to comply with their non-proliferation commitments .
but it 's not a kind of direct correlation . "
the experts point out that it is important to consider that the countries possessing nuclear weapons ca n't simply be lumped together .
the first category of nations , consisting of the states recognized by the nuclear non-proliferation treaty , includes france , britain and china .
getting them involved in arms reduction negotiations would probably be easier than to approach the second group of countries , consisting of india , pakistan , israel and north korea , states that are not formally recognized by the non-proliferation treaty .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : iran and north korea are a risk to regional security , the west says of the official nuclear powers , britain and china tend to be open towards international nuclear disarmament while france has taken a more reluctant stance towards disarmament .
british prime minister gordon brown was speaking about a nuclear free world even before barack obama and china traditionally had voiced a preference for a nuclear weapons free world , the experts point out . it 's a whole different story with the group of unofficial nuclear states .
with them it 's all about regional security , says oliver meier .
" if you go talk about israel of course you have the problem of the middle east , you have the problem of iran and very much will depend on what progress is made in the middle east .
" india and pakistan , of course you have the situation in south asia , the rivalry between those states .
and north korea is anybody 's bet .
that is at the moment very difficult to predict what policy north korea is pursuing . "
political climate has changed bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some in nuclear-armed pakistan harbor hatred of the us and india while it is helpful to keep obama 's vision - a nuclear free world - in mind , it is important to focus on the concrete steps that have to be taken first by russia and the us .
to merely amend or extend the existing start treaty in a first round of negotiations will take time .
to hammer out a new deal with more aggressive cuts in nuclear weapons will require even more patience , says miles pomper .
" just those two negotiations might take all of obama 's first term , assuming there 's a second term .
so i think until you get those you ca n't really judge the third round and maybe bringing other countries into the negotiations . "
obama of course knows himself that the goal of a nuclear free world is a political marathon , not a sprint .
in his speech in prague , he admitted that this goal may not be reached in his lifetime .
still , the global political conditions for a long time have n't been as conducive to nuclear arms reductions as they are right now .
" we now have from a range of people and governments a list of proposals how to move forward towards that goal , " argues oliver meier .
" for the first time in many , many years we have that discussion being led by a range of political actors , but also by the public , who have not taken this goal serious before .
and of course to have the united states in the leadership role has changed the political dynamics a lot . "
author : michael knigge editor : robert mudge send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de obama calls for end to nuclear weapons in prague speech us president barack obama has announced ambitious plans to rid the world of nuclear weapons at a speech in prague .
yet his support for a controversial us missile shield in eastern europe could anger russia .
-lrb- 05.04.2009 -rrb- five security council powers , germany offer direct dialog with iran the five permanent members of the un security council and germany on tuesday offered direct dialogue with iran to solve the ongoing nuclear standoff with the islamic republic .
-lrb- 04.03.2009 -rrb- iran 's new missiles add to europe 's nuclear worries iran alarmed the international community this week by using newly-developed missile technology to launch a satellite into space .
envoys from six countries are meeting in germany on wednesday to plan a response .
-lrb- 04.02.2009 -rrb- north korea says it has reactivated its nuclear program pyongyang says it has reactivated its nuclear program to " bolster the deterrence for self-defence in every way to cope with the increasing military threats from the hostile forces . " -lrb- 25.04.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
death penalty amnesty says china and middle east countries are still the main culprits in terms of executions .
watch the video transatlantic voices expert opinion no international cooperation has been declared dead or dying as often as the european union .
international conference media representatives around the world gather in bonn to discuss human rights .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
us-russia arms control deal first step towards global disarmament -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.12.2010 home news germany europe world from tierra del fuego to tijuana asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de defense -pipe- 07.05.2009 us-russia arms control deal first step towards global disarmament großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : moscow and washington want to curb nuclear proliferation us and russian officials will begin to negotiate a deal to cut their nuclear weapons arsenals in the coming weeks .
if they succeed , it could convince other nuclear powers to follow suit . the goal is clear and shared by both countries .
russia and the us want to reduce their number of nuclear missiles and replace the old bilateral start arms reduction treaty , which will expire at the end of the year , with a new arms control pact .
a preliminary meeting between the two sides has been described by the russian foreign ministry as " constructive " and " businesslike , " increasing the expectations for a positive outcome .
" i think generally the chances for success are very good " , says oliver meier , international representative of the arms control association .
" both sides on the major issues are really not far apart .
they have the same ideas in mind in terms of overall reductions in warheads , " he added .
" they have the same preferences in terms of having a legally binding , verifiable treaty .
the problem is that the timetable is very challenging because they are aiming for an agreement in the next couple of months and that will be very tough . "
if , as expected , it takes longer to solve the remaining differences , such as whether to include stored warheads as russia wants or not include them as the us wants , the existing start treaty could simply be extended beyond its expiration date at the end of the year .
as an alternative , another similar treaty could be signed until a more ambitious arms deal is reached in a second round of talks .
different categories of nuclear powers bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : barack obama has a long-term vision of a nuclear weapon free world while the prospects to strike a deal with russia look positive , president barack obama has a much loftier vision which he announced in his speech in prague in april : a world free of nuclear weapons .
but could a new arms control agreement between the us and russia , which combined possess at least 90 percent of all nuclear weapons , really put that much pressure on other nuclear powers and launch a global trend towards nuclear disarmament ?
miles pomper , a senior research associate at the center for non-proliferation studies , cautions against unrealistic expectations of a russian-american arms deal on other nations with nuclear weapons .
" what it might do is within the non-proliferation treaty process it would convince other countries of the goodwill of the united states and russia to meet their commitments to make steps toward nuclear disarmament and by doing that those other countries could increase the pressure on the irans and north koreas -lrb- of this world -rrb- to comply with their non-proliferation commitments .
but it 's not a kind of direct correlation . "
the experts point out that it is important to consider that the countries possessing nuclear weapons ca n't simply be lumped together .
the first category of nations , consisting of the states recognized by the nuclear non-proliferation treaty , includes france , britain and china .
getting them involved in arms reduction negotiations would probably be easier than to approach the second group of countries , consisting of india , pakistan , israel and north korea , states that are not formally recognized by the non-proliferation treaty .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : iran and north korea are a risk to regional security , the west says of the official nuclear powers , britain and china tend to be open towards international nuclear disarmament while france has taken a more reluctant stance towards disarmament .
british prime minister gordon brown was speaking about a nuclear free world even before barack obama and china traditionally had voiced a preference for a nuclear weapons free world , the experts point out . it 's a whole different story with the group of unofficial nuclear states .
with them it 's all about regional security , says oliver meier .
" if you go talk about israel of course you have the problem of the middle east , you have the problem of iran and very much will depend on what progress is made in the middle east .
" india and pakistan , of course you have the situation in south asia , the rivalry between those states .
and north korea is anybody 's bet .
that is at the moment very difficult to predict what policy north korea is pursuing . "
political climate has changed bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some in nuclear-armed pakistan harbor hatred of the us and india while it is helpful to keep obama 's vision - a nuclear free world - in mind , it is important to focus on the concrete steps that have to be taken first by russia and the us .
to merely amend or extend the existing start treaty in a first round of negotiations will take time .
to hammer out a new deal with more aggressive cuts in nuclear weapons will require even more patience , says miles pomper .
" just those two negotiations might take all of obama 's first term , assuming there 's a second term .
so i think until you get those you ca n't really judge the third round and maybe bringing other countries into the negotiations . "
obama of course knows himself that the goal of a nuclear free world is a political marathon , not a sprint .
in his speech in prague , he admitted that this goal may not be reached in his lifetime .
still , the global political conditions for a long time have n't been as conducive to nuclear arms reductions as they are right now .
" we now have from a range of people and governments a list of proposals how to move forward towards that goal , " argues oliver meier .
" for the first time in many , many years we have that discussion being led by a range of political actors , but also by the public , who have not taken this goal serious before .
and of course to have the united states in the leadership role has changed the political dynamics a lot . "
author : michael knigge editor : robert mudge send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de obama calls for end to nuclear weapons in prague speech us president barack obama has announced ambitious plans to rid the world of nuclear weapons at a speech in prague .
yet his support for a controversial us missile shield in eastern europe could anger russia .
-lrb- 05.04.2009 -rrb- five security council powers , germany offer direct dialog with iran the five permanent members of the un security council and germany on tuesday offered direct dialogue with iran to solve the ongoing nuclear standoff with the islamic republic .
-lrb- 04.03.2009 -rrb- iran 's new missiles add to europe 's nuclear worries iran alarmed the international community this week by using newly-developed missile technology to launch a satellite into space .
envoys from six countries are meeting in germany on wednesday to plan a response .
-lrb- 04.02.2009 -rrb- north korea says it has reactivated its nuclear program pyongyang says it has reactivated its nuclear program to " bolster the deterrence for self-defence in every way to cope with the increasing military threats from the hostile forces . " -lrb- 25.04.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
haiti unrest haiti is on edge as angry protesters block streets and set fires to contest the election result .
watch the video learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan new web site check out deutsche welle 's new asia page in english .
dw asia online latin america take a multimedia journey discover the region and its people news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's newest media partner © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
us-russia arms control deal first step towards global disarmament -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.09.2010 home news germany europe world from tierra del fuego to tijuana asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de defense -pipe- 07.05.2009 us-russia arms control deal first step towards global disarmament großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : moscow and washington want to curb nuclear proliferation us and russian officials will begin to negotiate a deal to cut their nuclear weapons arsenals in the coming weeks .
if they succeed , it could convince other nuclear powers to follow suit . the goal is clear and shared by both countries .
russia and the us want to reduce their number of nuclear missiles and replace the old bilateral start arms reduction treaty , which will expire at the end of the year , with a new arms control pact .
a preliminary meeting between the two sides has been described by the russian foreign ministry as " constructive " and " businesslike , " increasing the expectations for a positive outcome .
" i think generally the chances for success are very good " , says oliver meier , international representative of the arms control association .
" both sides on the major issues are really not far apart .
they have the same ideas in mind in terms of overall reductions in warheads , " he added .
" they have the same preferences in terms of having a legally binding , verifiable treaty .
the problem is that the timetable is very challenging because they are aiming for an agreement in the next couple of months and that will be very tough . "
if , as expected , it takes longer to solve the remaining differences , such as whether to include stored warheads as russia wants or not include them as the us wants , the existing start treaty could simply be extended beyond its expiration date at the end of the year .
as an alternative , another similar treaty could be signed until a more ambitious arms deal is reached in a second round of talks .
different categories of nuclear powers bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : barack obama has a long-term vision of a nuclear weapon free world while the prospects to strike a deal with russia look positive , president barack obama has a much loftier vision which he announced in his speech in prague in april : a world free of nuclear weapons .
but could a new arms control agreement between the us and russia , which combined possess at least 90 percent of all nuclear weapons , really put that much pressure on other nuclear powers and launch a global trend towards nuclear disarmament ?
miles pomper , a senior research associate at the center for non-proliferation studies , cautions against unrealistic expectations of a russian-american arms deal on other nations with nuclear weapons .
" what it might do is within the non-proliferation treaty process it would convince other countries of the goodwill of the united states and russia to meet their commitments to make steps toward nuclear disarmament and by doing that those other countries could increase the pressure on the irans and north koreas -lrb- of this world -rrb- to comply with their non-proliferation commitments .
but it 's not a kind of direct correlation . "
the experts point out that it is important to consider that the countries possessing nuclear weapons ca n't simply be lumped together .
the first category of nations , consisting of the states recognized by the nuclear non-proliferation treaty , includes france , britain and china .
getting them involved in arms reduction negotiations would probably be easier than to approach the second group of countries , consisting of india , pakistan , israel and north korea , states that are not formally recognized by the non-proliferation treaty .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : iran and north korea are a risk to regional security , the west says of the official nuclear powers , britain and china tend to be open towards international nuclear disarmament while france has taken a more reluctant stance towards disarmament .
british prime minister gordon brown was speaking about a nuclear free world even before barack obama and china traditionally had voiced a preference for a nuclear weapons free world , the experts point out . it 's a whole different story with the group of unofficial nuclear states .
with them it 's all about regional security , says oliver meier .
" if you go talk about israel of course you have the problem of the middle east , you have the problem of iran and very much will depend on what progress is made in the middle east .
" india and pakistan , of course you have the situation in south asia , the rivalry between those states .
and north korea is anybody 's bet .
that is at the moment very difficult to predict what policy north korea is pursuing . "
political climate has changed bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some in nuclear-armed pakistan harbor hatred of the us and india while it is helpful to keep obama 's vision - a nuclear free world - in mind , it is important to focus on the concrete steps that have to be taken first by russia and the us .
to merely amend or extend the existing start treaty in a first round of negotiations will take time .
to hammer out a new deal with more aggressive cuts in nuclear weapons will require even more patience , says miles pomper .
" just those two negotiations might take all of obama 's first term , assuming there 's a second term .
so i think until you get those you ca n't really judge the third round and maybe bringing other countries into the negotiations . "
obama of course knows himself that the goal of a nuclear free world is a political marathon , not a sprint .
in his speech in prague , he admitted that this goal may not be reached in his lifetime .
still , the global political conditions for a long time have n't been as conducive to nuclear arms reductions as they are right now .
" we now have from a range of people and governments a list of proposals how to move forward towards that goal , " argues oliver meier .
" for the first time in many , many years we have that discussion being led by a range of political actors , but also by the public , who have not taken this goal serious before .
and of course to have the united states in the leadership role has changed the political dynamics a lot . "
author : michael knigge editor : robert mudge send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de obama calls for end to nuclear weapons in prague speech us president barack obama has announced ambitious plans to rid the world of nuclear weapons at a speech in prague .
yet his support for a controversial us missile shield in eastern europe could anger russia .
-lrb- 05.04.2009 -rrb- five security council powers , germany offer direct dialog with iran the five permanent members of the un security council and germany on tuesday offered direct dialogue with iran to solve the ongoing nuclear standoff with the islamic republic .
-lrb- 04.03.2009 -rrb- iran 's new missiles add to europe 's nuclear worries iran alarmed the international community this week by using newly-developed missile technology to launch a satellite into space .
envoys from six countries are meeting in germany on wednesday to plan a response .
-lrb- 04.02.2009 -rrb- north korea says it has reactivated its nuclear program pyongyang says it has reactivated its nuclear program to " bolster the deterrence for self-defence in every way to cope with the increasing military threats from the hostile forces . " -lrb- 25.04.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live discover germany we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inside europe listen live burning books the international community has condemned plans by a florida church to burn copies of the koran .
watch the video afghan elections the us commander in afghanistan , general petraeus , wants more nato troops ahead of elections .
watch the video the aftermath deptuy head of deutsche welle south asia thomas bärthlein talks to asia compact from islamabad .
listen to the interview images from pakistan learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan new web site check out deutsche welle 's new asia page in english .
dw asia online news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's newest media partner latin america take a multimedia journey discover the region and its people © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
us-russia arms control deal first step towards global disarmament -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 14.01.2011 home news germany europe world from tierra del fuego to tijuana asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de defense -pipe- 07.05.2009 us-russia arms control deal first step towards global disarmament großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : moscow and washington want to curb nuclear proliferation us and russian officials will begin to negotiate a deal to cut their nuclear weapons arsenals in the coming weeks .
if they succeed , it could convince other nuclear powers to follow suit . the goal is clear and shared by both countries .
russia and the us want to reduce their number of nuclear missiles and replace the old bilateral start arms reduction treaty , which will expire at the end of the year , with a new arms control pact .
a preliminary meeting between the two sides has been described by the russian foreign ministry as " constructive " and " businesslike , " increasing the expectations for a positive outcome .
" i think generally the chances for success are very good " , says oliver meier , international representative of the arms control association .
" both sides on the major issues are really not far apart .
they have the same ideas in mind in terms of overall reductions in warheads , " he added .
" they have the same preferences in terms of having a legally binding , verifiable treaty .
the problem is that the timetable is very challenging because they are aiming for an agreement in the next couple of months and that will be very tough . "
if , as expected , it takes longer to solve the remaining differences , such as whether to include stored warheads as russia wants or not include them as the us wants , the existing start treaty could simply be extended beyond its expiration date at the end of the year .
as an alternative , another similar treaty could be signed until a more ambitious arms deal is reached in a second round of talks .
different categories of nuclear powers bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : barack obama has a long-term vision of a nuclear weapon free world while the prospects to strike a deal with russia look positive , president barack obama has a much loftier vision which he announced in his speech in prague in april : a world free of nuclear weapons .
but could a new arms control agreement between the us and russia , which combined possess at least 90 percent of all nuclear weapons , really put that much pressure on other nuclear powers and launch a global trend towards nuclear disarmament ?
miles pomper , a senior research associate at the center for non-proliferation studies , cautions against unrealistic expectations of a russian-american arms deal on other nations with nuclear weapons .
" what it might do is within the non-proliferation treaty process it would convince other countries of the goodwill of the united states and russia to meet their commitments to make steps toward nuclear disarmament and by doing that those other countries could increase the pressure on the irans and north koreas -lrb- of this world -rrb- to comply with their non-proliferation commitments .
but it 's not a kind of direct correlation . "
the experts point out that it is important to consider that the countries possessing nuclear weapons ca n't simply be lumped together .
the first category of nations , consisting of the states recognized by the nuclear non-proliferation treaty , includes france , britain and china .
getting them involved in arms reduction negotiations would probably be easier than to approach the second group of countries , consisting of india , pakistan , israel and north korea , states that are not formally recognized by the non-proliferation treaty .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : iran and north korea are a risk to regional security , the west says of the official nuclear powers , britain and china tend to be open towards international nuclear disarmament while france has taken a more reluctant stance towards disarmament .
british prime minister gordon brown was speaking about a nuclear free world even before barack obama and china traditionally had voiced a preference for a nuclear weapons free world , the experts point out . it 's a whole different story with the group of unofficial nuclear states .
with them it 's all about regional security , says oliver meier .
" if you go talk about israel of course you have the problem of the middle east , you have the problem of iran and very much will depend on what progress is made in the middle east .
" india and pakistan , of course you have the situation in south asia , the rivalry between those states .
and north korea is anybody 's bet .
that is at the moment very difficult to predict what policy north korea is pursuing . "
political climate has changed bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some in nuclear-armed pakistan harbor hatred of the us and india while it is helpful to keep obama 's vision - a nuclear free world - in mind , it is important to focus on the concrete steps that have to be taken first by russia and the us .
to merely amend or extend the existing start treaty in a first round of negotiations will take time .
to hammer out a new deal with more aggressive cuts in nuclear weapons will require even more patience , says miles pomper .
" just those two negotiations might take all of obama 's first term , assuming there 's a second term .
so i think until you get those you ca n't really judge the third round and maybe bringing other countries into the negotiations . "
obama of course knows himself that the goal of a nuclear free world is a political marathon , not a sprint .
in his speech in prague , he admitted that this goal may not be reached in his lifetime .
still , the global political conditions for a long time have n't been as conducive to nuclear arms reductions as they are right now .
" we now have from a range of people and governments a list of proposals how to move forward towards that goal , " argues oliver meier .
" for the first time in many , many years we have that discussion being led by a range of political actors , but also by the public , who have not taken this goal serious before .
and of course to have the united states in the leadership role has changed the political dynamics a lot . "
author : michael knigge editor : robert mudge send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de obama calls for end to nuclear weapons in prague speech us president barack obama has announced ambitious plans to rid the world of nuclear weapons at a speech in prague .
yet his support for a controversial us missile shield in eastern europe could anger russia .
-lrb- 05.04.2009 -rrb- five security council powers , germany offer direct dialog with iran the five permanent members of the un security council and germany on tuesday offered direct dialogue with iran to solve the ongoing nuclear standoff with the islamic republic .
-lrb- 04.03.2009 -rrb- iran 's new missiles add to europe 's nuclear worries iran alarmed the international community this week by using newly-developed missile technology to launch a satellite into space .
envoys from six countries are meeting in germany on wednesday to plan a response .
-lrb- 04.02.2009 -rrb- north korea says it has reactivated its nuclear program pyongyang says it has reactivated its nuclear program to " bolster the deterrence for self-defence in every way to cope with the increasing military threats from the hostile forces . " -lrb- 25.04.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
battered city the extent of the damage in brisbane is slowly becoming visible .
watch the video learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan latin america take a multimedia journey discover the region and its people news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's newest media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
us-russia arms control deal first step towards global disarmament -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.10.2010 home news germany europe world from tierra del fuego to tijuana asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de defense -pipe- 07.05.2009 us-russia arms control deal first step towards global disarmament großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : moscow and washington want to curb nuclear proliferation us and russian officials will begin to negotiate a deal to cut their nuclear weapons arsenals in the coming weeks .
if they succeed , it could convince other nuclear powers to follow suit . the goal is clear and shared by both countries .
russia and the us want to reduce their number of nuclear missiles and replace the old bilateral start arms reduction treaty , which will expire at the end of the year , with a new arms control pact .
a preliminary meeting between the two sides has been described by the russian foreign ministry as " constructive " and " businesslike , " increasing the expectations for a positive outcome .
" i think generally the chances for success are very good " , says oliver meier , international representative of the arms control association .
" both sides on the major issues are really not far apart .
they have the same ideas in mind in terms of overall reductions in warheads , " he added .
" they have the same preferences in terms of having a legally binding , verifiable treaty .
the problem is that the timetable is very challenging because they are aiming for an agreement in the next couple of months and that will be very tough . "
if , as expected , it takes longer to solve the remaining differences , such as whether to include stored warheads as russia wants or not include them as the us wants , the existing start treaty could simply be extended beyond its expiration date at the end of the year .
as an alternative , another similar treaty could be signed until a more ambitious arms deal is reached in a second round of talks .
different categories of nuclear powers bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : barack obama has a long-term vision of a nuclear weapon free world while the prospects to strike a deal with russia look positive , president barack obama has a much loftier vision which he announced in his speech in prague in april : a world free of nuclear weapons .
but could a new arms control agreement between the us and russia , which combined possess at least 90 percent of all nuclear weapons , really put that much pressure on other nuclear powers and launch a global trend towards nuclear disarmament ?
miles pomper , a senior research associate at the center for non-proliferation studies , cautions against unrealistic expectations of a russian-american arms deal on other nations with nuclear weapons .
" what it might do is within the non-proliferation treaty process it would convince other countries of the goodwill of the united states and russia to meet their commitments to make steps toward nuclear disarmament and by doing that those other countries could increase the pressure on the irans and north koreas -lrb- of this world -rrb- to comply with their non-proliferation commitments .
but it 's not a kind of direct correlation . "
the experts point out that it is important to consider that the countries possessing nuclear weapons ca n't simply be lumped together .
the first category of nations , consisting of the states recognized by the nuclear non-proliferation treaty , includes france , britain and china .
getting them involved in arms reduction negotiations would probably be easier than to approach the second group of countries , consisting of india , pakistan , israel and north korea , states that are not formally recognized by the non-proliferation treaty .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : iran and north korea are a risk to regional security , the west says of the official nuclear powers , britain and china tend to be open towards international nuclear disarmament while france has taken a more reluctant stance towards disarmament .
british prime minister gordon brown was speaking about a nuclear free world even before barack obama and china traditionally had voiced a preference for a nuclear weapons free world , the experts point out . it 's a whole different story with the group of unofficial nuclear states .
with them it 's all about regional security , says oliver meier .
" if you go talk about israel of course you have the problem of the middle east , you have the problem of iran and very much will depend on what progress is made in the middle east .
" india and pakistan , of course you have the situation in south asia , the rivalry between those states .
and north korea is anybody 's bet .
that is at the moment very difficult to predict what policy north korea is pursuing . "
political climate has changed bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some in nuclear-armed pakistan harbor hatred of the us and india while it is helpful to keep obama 's vision - a nuclear free world - in mind , it is important to focus on the concrete steps that have to be taken first by russia and the us .
to merely amend or extend the existing start treaty in a first round of negotiations will take time .
to hammer out a new deal with more aggressive cuts in nuclear weapons will require even more patience , says miles pomper .
" just those two negotiations might take all of obama 's first term , assuming there 's a second term .
so i think until you get those you ca n't really judge the third round and maybe bringing other countries into the negotiations . "
obama of course knows himself that the goal of a nuclear free world is a political marathon , not a sprint .
in his speech in prague , he admitted that this goal may not be reached in his lifetime .
still , the global political conditions for a long time have n't been as conducive to nuclear arms reductions as they are right now .
" we now have from a range of people and governments a list of proposals how to move forward towards that goal , " argues oliver meier .
" for the first time in many , many years we have that discussion being led by a range of political actors , but also by the public , who have not taken this goal serious before .
and of course to have the united states in the leadership role has changed the political dynamics a lot . "
author : michael knigge editor : robert mudge send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de obama calls for end to nuclear weapons in prague speech us president barack obama has announced ambitious plans to rid the world of nuclear weapons at a speech in prague .
yet his support for a controversial us missile shield in eastern europe could anger russia .
-lrb- 05.04.2009 -rrb- five security council powers , germany offer direct dialog with iran the five permanent members of the un security council and germany on tuesday offered direct dialogue with iran to solve the ongoing nuclear standoff with the islamic republic .
-lrb- 04.03.2009 -rrb- iran 's new missiles add to europe 's nuclear worries iran alarmed the international community this week by using newly-developed missile technology to launch a satellite into space .
envoys from six countries are meeting in germany on wednesday to plan a response .
-lrb- 04.02.2009 -rrb- north korea says it has reactivated its nuclear program pyongyang says it has reactivated its nuclear program to " bolster the deterrence for self-defence in every way to cope with the increasing military threats from the hostile forces . " -lrb- 25.04.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live learning by ear listen live life at gitmo dw-tv visits guantanamo bay for a closer look at the infamous detention camp the report as video on demand learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan new web site check out deutsche welle 's new asia page in english .
dw asia online news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's newest media partner latin america take a multimedia journey discover the region and its people © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
us-russia arms control deal first step towards global disarmament -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de defense -pipe- 07.05.2009 us-russia arms control deal first step towards global disarmament großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : moscow and washington want to curb nuclear proliferation us and russian officials will begin to negotiate a deal to cut their nuclear weapons arsenals in the coming weeks .
if they succeed , it could convince other nuclear powers to follow suit . the goal is clear and shared by both countries .
russia and the us want to reduce their number of nuclear missiles and replace the old bilateral start arms reduction treaty , which will expire at the end of the year , with a new arms control pact .
a preliminary meeting between the two sides has been described by the russian foreign ministry as " constructive " and " businesslike , " increasing the expectations for a positive outcome .
" i think generally the chances for success are very good " , says oliver meier , international representative of the arms control association .
" both sides on the major issues are really not far apart .
they have the same ideas in mind in terms of overall reductions in warheads , " he added .
" they have the same preferences in terms of having a legally binding , verifiable treaty .
the problem is that the timetable is very challenging because they are aiming for an agreement in the next couple of months and that will be very tough . "
if , as expected , it takes longer to solve the remaining differences , such as whether to include stored warheads as russia wants or not include them as the us wants , the existing start treaty could simply be extended beyond its expiration date at the end of the year .
as an alternative , another similar treaty could be signed until a more ambitious arms deal is reached in a second round of talks .
different categories of nuclear powers bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : barack obama has a long-term vision of a nuclear weapon free world while the prospects to strike a deal with russia look positive , president barack obama has a much loftier vision which he announced in his speech in prague in april : a world free of nuclear weapons .
but could a new arms control agreement between the us and russia , which combined possess at least 90 percent of all nuclear weapons , really put that much pressure on other nuclear powers and launch a global trend towards nuclear disarmament ?
miles pomper , a senior research associate at the center for non-proliferation studies , cautions against unrealistic expectations of a russian-american arms deal on other nations with nuclear weapons .
" what it might do is within the non-proliferation treaty process it would convince other countries of the goodwill of the united states and russia to meet their commitments to make steps toward nuclear disarmament and by doing that those other countries could increase the pressure on the irans and north koreas -lrb- of this world -rrb- to comply with their non-proliferation commitments .
but it 's not a kind of direct correlation . "
the experts point out that it is important to consider that the countries possessing nuclear weapons ca n't simply be lumped together .
the first category of nations , consisting of the states recognized by the nuclear non-proliferation treaty , includes france , britain and china .
getting them involved in arms reduction negotiations would probably be easier than to approach the second group of countries , consisting of india , pakistan , israel and north korea , states that are not formally recognized by the non-proliferation treaty .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : iran and north korea are a risk to regional security , the west says of the official nuclear powers , britain and china tend to be open towards international nuclear disarmament while france has taken a more reluctant stance towards disarmament .
british prime minister gordon brown was speaking about a nuclear free world even before barack obama and china traditionally had voiced a preference for a nuclear weapons free world , the experts point out . it 's a whole different story with the group of unofficial nuclear states .
with them it 's all about regional security , says oliver meier .
" if you go talk about israel of course you have the problem of the middle east , you have the problem of iran and very much will depend on what progress is made in the middle east .
" india and pakistan , of course you have the situation in south asia , the rivalry between those states .
and north korea is anybody 's bet .
that is at the moment very difficult to predict what policy north korea is pursuing . "
political climate has changed bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some in nuclear-armed pakistan harbor hatred of the us and india while it is helpful to keep obama 's vision - a nuclear free world - in mind , it is important to focus on the concrete steps that have to be taken first by russia and the us .
to merely amend or extend the existing start treaty in a first round of negotiations will take time .
to hammer out a new deal with more aggressive cuts in nuclear weapons will require even more patience , says miles pomper .
" just those two negotiations might take all of obama 's first term , assuming there 's a second term .
so i think until you get those you ca n't really judge the third round and maybe bringing other countries into the negotiations . "
obama of course knows himself that the goal of a nuclear free world is a political marathon , not a sprint .
in his speech in prague , he admitted that this goal may not be reached in his lifetime .
still , the global political conditions for a long time have n't been as conducive to nuclear arms reductions as they are right now .
" we now have from a range of people and governments a list of proposals how to move forward towards that goal , " argues oliver meier .
" for the first time in many , many years we have that discussion being led by a range of political actors , but also by the public , who have not taken this goal serious before .
and of course to have the united states in the leadership role has changed the political dynamics a lot . "
author : michael knigge editor : robert mudge send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de obama calls for end to nuclear weapons in prague speech us president barack obama has announced ambitious plans to rid the world of nuclear weapons at a speech in prague .
yet his support for a controversial us missile shield in eastern europe could anger russia .
-lrb- 05.04.2009 -rrb- five security council powers , germany offer direct dialog with iran the five permanent members of the un security council and germany on tuesday offered direct dialogue with iran to solve the ongoing nuclear standoff with the islamic republic .
-lrb- 04.03.2009 -rrb- iran 's new missiles add to europe 's nuclear worries iran alarmed the international community this week by using newly-developed missile technology to launch a satellite into space .
envoys from six countries are meeting in germany on wednesday to plan a response .
-lrb- 04.02.2009 -rrb- north korea says it has reactivated its nuclear program pyongyang says it has reactivated its nuclear program to " bolster the deterrence for self-defence in every way to cope with the increasing military threats from the hostile forces . " -lrb- 25.04.2009 -rrb- 9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
cairo crisis egypt 's military council has warned protesters it will move in to break up the demonstrations .
watch the video in depth focus on libya dw-world looks at the turmoil in libya : what it means for tripoli and the rest of the world .
international conference media representatives around the world gather in bonn to discuss human rights .
podcast series by teaching stand-up comedy , bryan encourages his students to discover their talents .
download the report subscribe to the series on itunes past episodes learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
deutsche telekom posts large first-quarter loss -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business 125 years automobile science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de communications -pipe- 07.05.2009 deutsche telekom posts large first-quarter loss großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the loss brings dark clouds to deutsche telekom germany 's telecommunications operator , deutsche telekom , has blamed the economic downturn and intense competition for its first quarter loss of 1.12 billion euros . the bonn-based company announced the big loss for the january-march period , and compared it to the net profit of 924 million euros -lrb- $ 1.2 billion -rrb- it posted in the first quarter of 2008 .
it attributed the loss to a devaluation of its british t-mobile unit and " the strong economic slowdown and more intense competition in the united kingdom . "
however , in a written statement , the telecommunications giant announced it had an increase in total sales , up 6.2 percent on the same period last year .
that was explained by the integration of greek telecom operator ote into deutsche telekom 's books in february .
" the figures we are presenting today show a mixed picture , " deutsche telekom chairman rene obermann said .
" despite the difficult environment in some markets , we are in a relatively stable position , " he added .
meanwhile , the financial times deutschland has reported that telekom plans job cuts in its t-systems unit , saying that 1,500 workers will be laid off .
rene obermann has denied the report . cg / dfm / rm , afp / ap send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de t-mobile rules out compensation after network failure germany 's largest mobile phone operator has ruled out paying compensation after an embarrassing outage in its network left millions of customers without service .
-lrb- 23.04.2009 -rrb- deutsche bank extends ceo 's contract amid first-quarter profits deutsche bank chief josef ackermann has agreed to another three years at the helm , while the bank made good on disastrous 2008 figures by posting impressive first quarter profits .
-lrb- 28.04.2009 -rrb- germany 's munich re posts 2008 profit of 1.5 billion euros munich re , the world 's second biggest re-insurance group , on wednesday posted a net profit of 1.5 billion euros -lrb- $ 1.9 billion -rrb- for 2008 , with a slight gain of around 100 million euros in the last quarter .
-lrb- 04.02.2009 -rrb- 9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit tagesthema we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live stock exchange today in history 1985 : " live aid " concert dw-tv get an inside look at some of germany 's more unusual companies .
flying the german flag - costly voyages for shipping companies captains in the classroom - rostock 's maritime school organbuilding - the art and craft of the perfect sound saving makes cents – new heating technology for industry © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
deutsche telekom posts large first-quarter loss -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 29.03.2011 home news germany europe world asia business 125 years automobile science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de communications -pipe- 07.05.2009 deutsche telekom posts large first-quarter loss großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the loss brings dark clouds to deutsche telekom germany 's telecommunications operator , deutsche telekom , has blamed the economic downturn and intense competition for its first quarter loss of 1.12 billion euros . the bonn-based company announced the big loss for the january-march period , and compared it to the net profit of 924 million euros -lrb- $ 1.2 billion -rrb- it posted in the first quarter of 2008 .
it attributed the loss to a devaluation of its british t-mobile unit and " the strong economic slowdown and more intense competition in the united kingdom . "
however , in a written statement , the telecommunications giant announced it had an increase in total sales , up 6.2 percent on the same period last year .
that was explained by the integration of greek telecom operator ote into deutsche telekom 's books in february .
" the figures we are presenting today show a mixed picture , " deutsche telekom chairman rene obermann said .
" despite the difficult environment in some markets , we are in a relatively stable position , " he added .
meanwhile , the financial times deutschland has reported that telekom plans job cuts in its t-systems unit , saying that 1,500 workers will be laid off .
rene obermann has denied the report . cg / dfm / rm , afp / ap send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de t-mobile rules out compensation after network failure germany 's largest mobile phone operator has ruled out paying compensation after an embarrassing outage in its network left millions of customers without service .
-lrb- 23.04.2009 -rrb- deutsche bank extends ceo 's contract amid first-quarter profits deutsche bank chief josef ackermann has agreed to another three years at the helm , while the bank made good on disastrous 2008 figures by posting impressive first quarter profits .
-lrb- 28.04.2009 -rrb- germany 's munich re posts 2008 profit of 1.5 billion euros munich re , the world 's second biggest re-insurance group , on wednesday posted a net profit of 1.5 billion euros -lrb- $ 1.9 billion -rrb- for 2008 , with a slight gain of around 100 million euros in the last quarter .
-lrb- 04.02.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week money , power and heavy metal : listen to the latest european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-tv europe live im focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live music this week listen live banking get an inside look at some of germany 's more unusual companies .
olkiluoto 3 - finland builds the world 's biggest nuclear power plant nuclear power plants : after a shutdown peter paffhausen : from nuclear manager to green energy advocate heightened fears : geiger counters fly off the shelves stock exchange today in history 1912 : tragic end to scott expedition © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
deutsche telekom posts large first-quarter loss -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de communications -pipe- 07.05.2009 deutsche telekom posts large first-quarter loss großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the loss brings dark clouds to deutsche telekom germany 's telecommunications operator , deutsche telekom , has blamed the economic downturn and intense competition for its first quarter loss of 1.12 billion euros . the bonn-based company announced the big loss for the january-march period , and compared it to the net profit of 924 million euros -lrb- $ 1.2 billion -rrb- it posted in the first quarter of 2008 .
it attributed the loss to a devaluation of its british t-mobile unit and " the strong economic slowdown and more intense competition in the united kingdom . "
however , in a written statement , the telecommunications giant announced it had an increase in total sales , up 6.2 percent on the same period last year .
that was explained by the integration of greek telecom operator ote into deutsche telekom 's books in february .
" the figures we are presenting today show a mixed picture , " deutsche telekom chairman rene obermann said .
" despite the difficult environment in some markets , we are in a relatively stable position , " he added .
meanwhile , the financial times deutschland has reported that telekom plans job cuts in its t-systems unit , saying that 1,500 workers will be laid off .
rene obermann has denied the report . cg / dfm / rm , afp / ap send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de t-mobile rules out compensation after network failure germany 's largest mobile phone operator has ruled out paying compensation after an embarrassing outage in its network left millions of customers without service .
-lrb- 23.04.2009 -rrb- deutsche bank extends ceo 's contract amid first-quarter profits deutsche bank chief josef ackermann has agreed to another three years at the helm , while the bank made good on disastrous 2008 figures by posting impressive first quarter profits .
-lrb- 28.04.2009 -rrb- germany 's munich re posts 2008 profit of 1.5 billion euros munich re , the world 's second biggest re-insurance group , on wednesday posted a net profit of 1.5 billion euros -lrb- $ 1.9 billion -rrb- for 2008 , with a slight gain of around 100 million euros in the last quarter .
-lrb- 04.02.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live concert hour ard international music competition , part one listen live stock exchange today in history 1967 : thalidomide bill of indictment © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
deutsche telekom posts large first-quarter loss -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de communications -pipe- 07.05.2009 deutsche telekom posts large first-quarter loss großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the loss brings dark clouds to deutsche telekom germany 's telecommunications operator , deutsche telekom , has blamed the economic downturn and intense competition for its first quarter loss of 1.12 billion euros . the bonn-based company announced the big loss for the january-march period , and compared it to the net profit of 924 million euros -lrb- $ 1.2 billion -rrb- it posted in the first quarter of 2008 .
it attributed the loss to a devaluation of its british t-mobile unit and " the strong economic slowdown and more intense competition in the united kingdom . "
however , in a written statement , the telecommunications giant announced it had an increase in total sales , up 6.2 percent on the same period last year .
that was explained by the integration of greek telecom operator ote into deutsche telekom 's books in february .
" the figures we are presenting today show a mixed picture , " deutsche telekom chairman rene obermann said .
" despite the difficult environment in some markets , we are in a relatively stable position , " he added .
meanwhile , the financial times deutschland has reported that telekom plans job cuts in its t-systems unit , saying that 1,500 workers will be laid off .
rene obermann has denied the report . cg / dfm / rm , afp / ap send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de t-mobile rules out compensation after network failure germany 's largest mobile phone operator has ruled out paying compensation after an embarrassing outage in its network left millions of customers without service .
-lrb- 23.04.2009 -rrb- deutsche bank extends ceo 's contract amid first-quarter profits deutsche bank chief josef ackermann has agreed to another three years at the helm , while the bank made good on disastrous 2008 figures by posting impressive first quarter profits .
-lrb- 28.04.2009 -rrb- germany 's munich re posts 2008 profit of 1.5 billion euros munich re , the world 's second biggest re-insurance group , on wednesday posted a net profit of 1.5 billion euros -lrb- $ 1.9 billion -rrb- for 2008 , with a slight gain of around 100 million euros in the last quarter .
-lrb- 04.02.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live quadriga we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inside europe listen live stock exchange today in history 1958 : overdraft facility for everyone © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
deutsche telekom posts large first-quarter loss -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 14.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de communications -pipe- 07.05.2009 deutsche telekom posts large first-quarter loss großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the loss brings dark clouds to deutsche telekom germany 's telecommunications operator , deutsche telekom , has blamed the economic downturn and intense competition for its first quarter loss of 1.12 billion euros . the bonn-based company announced the big loss for the january-march period , and compared it to the net profit of 924 million euros -lrb- $ 1.2 billion -rrb- it posted in the first quarter of 2008 .
it attributed the loss to a devaluation of its british t-mobile unit and " the strong economic slowdown and more intense competition in the united kingdom . "
however , in a written statement , the telecommunications giant announced it had an increase in total sales , up 6.2 percent on the same period last year .
that was explained by the integration of greek telecom operator ote into deutsche telekom 's books in february .
" the figures we are presenting today show a mixed picture , " deutsche telekom chairman rene obermann said .
" despite the difficult environment in some markets , we are in a relatively stable position , " he added .
meanwhile , the financial times deutschland has reported that telekom plans job cuts in its t-systems unit , saying that 1,500 workers will be laid off .
rene obermann has denied the report . cg / dfm / rm , afp / ap send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de t-mobile rules out compensation after network failure germany 's largest mobile phone operator has ruled out paying compensation after an embarrassing outage in its network left millions of customers without service .
-lrb- 23.04.2009 -rrb- deutsche bank extends ceo 's contract amid first-quarter profits deutsche bank chief josef ackermann has agreed to another three years at the helm , while the bank made good on disastrous 2008 figures by posting impressive first quarter profits .
-lrb- 28.04.2009 -rrb- germany 's munich re posts 2008 profit of 1.5 billion euros munich re , the world 's second biggest re-insurance group , on wednesday posted a net profit of 1.5 billion euros -lrb- $ 1.9 billion -rrb- for 2008 , with a slight gain of around 100 million euros in the last quarter .
-lrb- 04.02.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live politik direkt we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inside europe listen live stock exchange today in history 1875 : albert schweitzer © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
deutsche telekom posts large first-quarter loss -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 05.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de communications -pipe- 07.05.2009 deutsche telekom posts large first-quarter loss großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the loss brings dark clouds to deutsche telekom germany 's telecommunications operator , deutsche telekom , has blamed the economic downturn and intense competition for its first quarter loss of 1.12 billion euros . the bonn-based company announced the big loss for the january-march period , and compared it to the net profit of 924 million euros -lrb- $ 1.2 billion -rrb- it posted in the first quarter of 2008 .
it attributed the loss to a devaluation of its british t-mobile unit and " the strong economic slowdown and more intense competition in the united kingdom . "
however , in a written statement , the telecommunications giant announced it had an increase in total sales , up 6.2 percent on the same period last year .
that was explained by the integration of greek telecom operator ote into deutsche telekom 's books in february .
" the figures we are presenting today show a mixed picture , " deutsche telekom chairman rene obermann said .
" despite the difficult environment in some markets , we are in a relatively stable position , " he added .
meanwhile , the financial times deutschland has reported that telekom plans job cuts in its t-systems unit , saying that 1,500 workers will be laid off .
rene obermann has denied the report . cg / dfm / rm , afp / ap send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de t-mobile rules out compensation after network failure germany 's largest mobile phone operator has ruled out paying compensation after an embarrassing outage in its network left millions of customers without service .
-lrb- 23.04.2009 -rrb- deutsche bank extends ceo 's contract amid first-quarter profits deutsche bank chief josef ackermann has agreed to another three years at the helm , while the bank made good on disastrous 2008 figures by posting impressive first quarter profits .
-lrb- 28.04.2009 -rrb- germany 's munich re posts 2008 profit of 1.5 billion euros munich re , the world 's second biggest re-insurance group , on wednesday posted a net profit of 1.5 billion euros -lrb- $ 1.9 billion -rrb- for 2008 , with a slight gain of around 100 million euros in the last quarter .
-lrb- 04.02.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live quadriga we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live european business week making europe 's business your business listen live stock exchange today in history 1929 : heart catheter � self experiment © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
european central bank cuts rates to record low -pipe- nrs-import -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de economy -pipe- 07.05.2009 european central bank cuts rates to record low großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : jean-claude trichet , the ecb president .
the european central bank has cut its main interest rate to a record low one percent .
the cut was the fourth this year by the frankfurt-based bank , and it may not be the last . ecb president jean-claude trichet announced the cut on thursday , saying the bank was planning to shore up financial market confidence and boost liquidity by extending the period over which the ecb lends funds to banks at fixed rates from 6 months to 12 months and purchasing bonds .
the quarter point rate cut was the fourth this year by the frankfurt-based bank , which sets monetary policy for countries that share the euro currency .
trichet said that inflationary pressures had diminished in the economic downturn , but that the euro-zone economy appeared to be stabilising .
" the latest economic data suggest tentative signs of a stabilisation at very low levels after a first quarter which was significantly weaker than expected , " he told the news conference after the bank 's decision .
" the world economy including the eurozone is still undergoing a severe downturn with the prospect of both external and domestic demand remaining very weak over 2009 before gradually recovering in the course of 2010 , " trichet said .
he also said inflation expectations were consistent with keeping it in line with the bank 's target of price growth at or just below 2 percent .
eurozone inflation is at a record low of 0.6 percent and although some economic data are showing signs of stabilisation , the european commission this week forecast the eurozone 's economy would shrink by 4.0 percent this year .
the ecb has cut rates from 4.25 percent since last october .
trichet indicated that thursday 's rate cut was not necessarily the last . ch / pfd , rtr / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de eu agrees to boost aid to struggling member countries the european union has agreed to double the amount of a bailout fund to 50 billion euros -lrb- $ 67 billion -rrb- .
the fund was created to provide emergency loans to eastern eu countries hit hard by the financial crisis .
-lrb- 05.05.2009 -rrb- japanese pm lauds swift german reaction to financial crisis japanese prime minister taro aso was in berlin on tuesday as part of a three-day trip to europe .
the global economic downturn was on aso 's mind as he met with german chancellor angela merkel .
-lrb- 05.05.2009 -rrb- spring employment boost fails to materialize a much-hoped-for springtime jobs boost has failed to materialize , official german figures show .
-lrb- 30.04.2009 -rrb- 9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german language lover on quest to save " chinglish " -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 30.03.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de from the fringe -pipe- 07.05.2009 german language lover on quest to save " chinglish " großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : just one of the thousands of examples to be found in china a german multimedia producer is working hard to preserve chinglish – china 's special version of english – for future generations . for 32-year-old oliver radtke , his fascination with chinglish began in 2000 , when he noticed a sign while in a shanghai taxi : " do n't forget to carry your thing , " it said .
since then , he has published two books on the subject . most recently , " more chinglish - speaking in tongues , " which hit shelves in april . he also maintains a popular online blog .
there is a view held by many in china , and not least by the authorities , that chinglish is an embarrassment that must be wiped out at all costs .
radtke disagrees .
he says the " language " should be preserved .
" there is a lot in chinglish that is so much more than just incompetent english or incorrect english , " he said .
" a lot of the chinglish signs carry a certain chinese notion in them which enriches the english language and makes english more chinese in the sense that there is a certain chinese flavor , a certain chinese way of thinking . "
radtke focuses on written examples of the lingo on signboards , menu cards and shop fronts .
some signs highlighted in his books are decidedly politically incorrect - " cripple 's lane , " rather than " wheelchair path , " or " deformed man toilet , " instead of " handicapped restroom . "
others are more poetic , such as one sign reminding visitors to one section of the great wall of china to be careful : " do not forget the fire is heartless . "
chinese citizens warming to " chinglish " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : oliver 's book " welcome to presence " " the initial reaction of many chinese users was very much against the project .
they thought i was making fun of them , " radtke said .
but he says the chinese are increasingly supportive of his efforts , and many have come to understand that he believes chinglish is in fact enriching the english language .
radtke , as a german , believes the entire notion of one single , standard version of english is outdated because it now has far more than one billion regular users worldwide , and a rapidly growing number speak it as their second language .
in recent years , china has kicked off campaigns to root out poor english grammar and misused vocabulary in official usage .
much to radtke 's horror , the most famous of these drives took place in beijing prior to the olympic games in august last year .
during that time , authorities rechristened the dongda proctology hospital , formerly the dongda anus hospital .
however radtke maintains these campaigns will never fully succeed .
he 's optimistic that chinglish will never disappear from the mainstream .
" i 'm pessimistic when it comes to official signs in the big cities .
but restaurants , companies , private institutions , small shop owners will all produce a lot of chinglish , " he says . cg , dfm afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de eu to english speakers : put your mouth where the money is the european union wants native english speakers to put their mouths where the money is : translation work .
the bloc , which has 23 official languages , is sending out an urgent youtube plea for more english translators .
-lrb- 19.02.2009 -rrb- immigrants help create new type of german language in multicultural urban areas of germany , a new variant of german has evolved with its own grammar and rhythm .
this ethnolect is spoken among young migrants of various ethnic backgrounds as well as young native germans .
-lrb- 08.12.2007 -rrb- wanderlust sends german words traveling what do autobahn , fest , flugelhorn , angst and gesundheit all have in common ?
you guessed it : they all come from the language of goethe , thomas mann and rammstein .
you know more german words than you think you do .
-lrb- 08.08.2006 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
food try these recipes for a taste of europe .
hearty irish stew knödel dumplings with meat filling ribolitta from florence berlin-style pork with potatoes fish from lake traunsee in austria cologne fish with gourmet twist sweet-savory pheasant from leeds escudella vegetable and meat soup podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's new free podcast .
' clip ' homepage clip no. 10 - 1000 robota with a new take on punk subscribe on itunes get the rss feed word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
soundscape 100 concert hour arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth news quiz test your knowledge with the news quiz ! © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german language lover on quest to save " chinglish " -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de from the fringe -pipe- 07.05.2009 german language lover on quest to save " chinglish " großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : just one of the thousands of examples to be found in china a german multimedia producer is working hard to preserve chinglish – china 's special version of english – for future generations . for 32-year-old oliver radtke , his fascination with chinglish began in 2000 , when he noticed a sign while in a shanghai taxi : " do n't forget to carry your thing , " it said .
since then , he has published two books on the subject . most recently , " more chinglish - speaking in tongues , " which hit shelves in april . he also maintains a popular online blog .
there is a view held by many in china , and not least by the authorities , that chinglish is an embarrassment that must be wiped out at all costs .
radtke disagrees .
he says the " language " should be preserved .
" there is a lot in chinglish that is so much more than just incompetent english or incorrect english , " he said .
" a lot of the chinglish signs carry a certain chinese notion in them which enriches the english language and makes english more chinese in the sense that there is a certain chinese flavor , a certain chinese way of thinking . "
radtke focuses on written examples of the lingo on signboards , menu cards and shop fronts .
some signs highlighted in his books are decidedly politically incorrect - " cripple 's lane , " rather than " wheelchair path , " or " deformed man toilet , " instead of " handicapped restroom . "
others are more poetic , such as one sign reminding visitors to one section of the great wall of china to be careful : " do not forget the fire is heartless . "
chinese citizens warming to " chinglish " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : oliver 's book " welcome to presence " " the initial reaction of many chinese users was very much against the project .
they thought i was making fun of them , " radtke said .
but he says the chinese are increasingly supportive of his efforts , and many have come to understand that he believes chinglish is in fact enriching the english language .
radtke , as a german , believes the entire notion of one single , standard version of english is outdated because it now has far more than one billion regular users worldwide , and a rapidly growing number speak it as their second language .
in recent years , china has kicked off campaigns to root out poor english grammar and misused vocabulary in official usage .
much to radtke 's horror , the most famous of these drives took place in beijing prior to the olympic games in august last year .
during that time , authorities rechristened the dongda proctology hospital , formerly the dongda anus hospital .
however radtke maintains these campaigns will never fully succeed .
he 's optimistic that chinglish will never disappear from the mainstream .
" i 'm pessimistic when it comes to official signs in the big cities .
but restaurants , companies , private institutions , small shop owners will all produce a lot of chinglish , " he says . cg , dfm afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de eu to english speakers : put your mouth where the money is the european union wants native english speakers to put their mouths where the money is : translation work .
the bloc , which has 23 official languages , is sending out an urgent youtube plea for more english translators .
-lrb- 19.02.2009 -rrb- immigrants help create new type of german language in multicultural urban areas of germany , a new variant of german has evolved with its own grammar and rhythm .
this ethnolect is spoken among young migrants of various ethnic backgrounds as well as young native germans .
-lrb- 08.12.2007 -rrb- wanderlust sends german words traveling what do autobahn , fest , flugelhorn , angst and gesundheit all have in common ?
you guessed it : they all come from the language of goethe , thomas mann and rammstein .
you know more german words than you think you do .
-lrb- 08.08.2006 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live culture calendar october happenings from music and art to film and dance - find out what 's going on in germany 's cultural scene .
music dw presents podcasts of performances by top artists at the 2010 beethovenfest .
podcasts on itunes more on beethoven podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's new free podcast .
clip no. 1 - luis und laserpower clip no. 2 - abel & cain clip no. 3 - baby benzin clip no. 4 - the intersphere clip no. 5 - shantel clip no. 6 - klee subscribe on itunes get the rss feed word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
hits in germany concert hour music this week arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german language lover on quest to save " chinglish " -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de from the fringe -pipe- 07.05.2009 german language lover on quest to save " chinglish " großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : just one of the thousands of examples to be found in china a german multimedia producer is working hard to preserve chinglish – china 's special version of english – for future generations . for 32-year-old oliver radtke , his fascination with chinglish began in 2000 , when he noticed a sign while in a shanghai taxi : " do n't forget to carry your thing , " it said .
since then , he has published two books on the subject . most recently , " more chinglish - speaking in tongues , " which hit shelves in april . he also maintains a popular online blog .
there is a view held by many in china , and not least by the authorities , that chinglish is an embarrassment that must be wiped out at all costs .
radtke disagrees .
he says the " language " should be preserved .
" there is a lot in chinglish that is so much more than just incompetent english or incorrect english , " he said .
" a lot of the chinglish signs carry a certain chinese notion in them which enriches the english language and makes english more chinese in the sense that there is a certain chinese flavor , a certain chinese way of thinking . "
radtke focuses on written examples of the lingo on signboards , menu cards and shop fronts .
some signs highlighted in his books are decidedly politically incorrect - " cripple 's lane , " rather than " wheelchair path , " or " deformed man toilet , " instead of " handicapped restroom . "
others are more poetic , such as one sign reminding visitors to one section of the great wall of china to be careful : " do not forget the fire is heartless . "
chinese citizens warming to " chinglish " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : oliver 's book " welcome to presence " " the initial reaction of many chinese users was very much against the project .
they thought i was making fun of them , " radtke said .
but he says the chinese are increasingly supportive of his efforts , and many have come to understand that he believes chinglish is in fact enriching the english language .
radtke , as a german , believes the entire notion of one single , standard version of english is outdated because it now has far more than one billion regular users worldwide , and a rapidly growing number speak it as their second language .
in recent years , china has kicked off campaigns to root out poor english grammar and misused vocabulary in official usage .
much to radtke 's horror , the most famous of these drives took place in beijing prior to the olympic games in august last year .
during that time , authorities rechristened the dongda proctology hospital , formerly the dongda anus hospital .
however radtke maintains these campaigns will never fully succeed .
he 's optimistic that chinglish will never disappear from the mainstream .
" i 'm pessimistic when it comes to official signs in the big cities .
but restaurants , companies , private institutions , small shop owners will all produce a lot of chinglish , " he says . cg , dfm afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de eu to english speakers : put your mouth where the money is the european union wants native english speakers to put their mouths where the money is : translation work .
the bloc , which has 23 official languages , is sending out an urgent youtube plea for more english translators .
-lrb- 19.02.2009 -rrb- immigrants help create new type of german language in multicultural urban areas of germany , a new variant of german has evolved with its own grammar and rhythm .
this ethnolect is spoken among young migrants of various ethnic backgrounds as well as young native germans .
-lrb- 08.12.2007 -rrb- wanderlust sends german words traveling what do autobahn , fest , flugelhorn , angst and gesundheit all have in common ?
you guessed it : they all come from the language of goethe , thomas mann and rammstein .
you know more german words than you think you do .
-lrb- 08.08.2006 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
picture gallery christmas markets holiday cheer ís easy to come by during the advent season in germany .
travel explore some of europe 's most fascinating cities with dw-tv 's euromaxx .
athens , greece trieste , italy krakow , poland le mans , france tarragona , spain oslo , norway edinburgh , scotland dresden , germany podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's new free podcast .
' clip ' homepage clip no. 4 - the intersphere clip no. 5 - shantel clip no. 6 - klee clip no. 7 - einshoch6 subscribe on itunes get the rss feed word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
hits in germany concert hour music this week arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth music dw presents podcasts of performances by top artists at the 2010 beethovenfest .
podcasts on itunes more on beethoven © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german language lover on quest to save " chinglish " -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 16.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de from the fringe -pipe- 07.05.2009 german language lover on quest to save " chinglish " großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : just one of the thousands of examples to be found in china a german multimedia producer is working hard to preserve chinglish – china 's special version of english – for future generations . for 32-year-old oliver radtke , his fascination with chinglish began in 2000 , when he noticed a sign while in a shanghai taxi : " do n't forget to carry your thing , " it said .
since then , he has published two books on the subject . most recently , " more chinglish - speaking in tongues , " which hit shelves in april . he also maintains a popular online blog .
there is a view held by many in china , and not least by the authorities , that chinglish is an embarrassment that must be wiped out at all costs .
radtke disagrees .
he says the " language " should be preserved .
" there is a lot in chinglish that is so much more than just incompetent english or incorrect english , " he said .
" a lot of the chinglish signs carry a certain chinese notion in them which enriches the english language and makes english more chinese in the sense that there is a certain chinese flavor , a certain chinese way of thinking . "
radtke focuses on written examples of the lingo on signboards , menu cards and shop fronts .
some signs highlighted in his books are decidedly politically incorrect - " cripple 's lane , " rather than " wheelchair path , " or " deformed man toilet , " instead of " handicapped restroom . "
others are more poetic , such as one sign reminding visitors to one section of the great wall of china to be careful : " do not forget the fire is heartless . "
chinese citizens warming to " chinglish " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : oliver 's book " welcome to presence " " the initial reaction of many chinese users was very much against the project .
they thought i was making fun of them , " radtke said .
but he says the chinese are increasingly supportive of his efforts , and many have come to understand that he believes chinglish is in fact enriching the english language .
radtke , as a german , believes the entire notion of one single , standard version of english is outdated because it now has far more than one billion regular users worldwide , and a rapidly growing number speak it as their second language .
in recent years , china has kicked off campaigns to root out poor english grammar and misused vocabulary in official usage .
much to radtke 's horror , the most famous of these drives took place in beijing prior to the olympic games in august last year .
during that time , authorities rechristened the dongda proctology hospital , formerly the dongda anus hospital .
however radtke maintains these campaigns will never fully succeed .
he 's optimistic that chinglish will never disappear from the mainstream .
" i 'm pessimistic when it comes to official signs in the big cities .
but restaurants , companies , private institutions , small shop owners will all produce a lot of chinglish , " he says . cg , dfm afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de eu to english speakers : put your mouth where the money is the european union wants native english speakers to put their mouths where the money is : translation work .
the bloc , which has 23 official languages , is sending out an urgent youtube plea for more english translators .
-lrb- 19.02.2009 -rrb- immigrants help create new type of german language in multicultural urban areas of germany , a new variant of german has evolved with its own grammar and rhythm .
this ethnolect is spoken among young migrants of various ethnic backgrounds as well as young native germans .
-lrb- 08.12.2007 -rrb- wanderlust sends german words traveling what do autobahn , fest , flugelhorn , angst and gesundheit all have in common ?
you guessed it : they all come from the language of goethe , thomas mann and rammstein .
you know more german words than you think you do .
-lrb- 08.08.2006 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live cities at the heart of most european cities , there 's a plaza , piazza or platz where everything happens .
place charles de gaulle , paris plaza mayor , madrid potsdamer platz , berlin st. mark 's square , venice literature urban writing crowded , intriguing and often impovrished , the world 's megacities inspire their writers .
culture calendar september happenings from music and art to film and dance - find out what 's going on in germany 's cultural scene .
podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's new free podcast .
clip no. 1 - luis und laserpower clip no. 2 - abel & cain clip no. 3 - baby benzin clip no. 4 - the intersphere subscribe on itunes get the rss feed word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
hits in germany concert hour music this week arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german language lover on quest to save " chinglish " -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 14.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle music art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de from the fringe -pipe- 07.05.2009 german language lover on quest to save " chinglish " großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : just one of the thousands of examples to be found in china a german multimedia producer is working hard to preserve chinglish – china 's special version of english – for future generations . for 32-year-old oliver radtke , his fascination with chinglish began in 2000 , when he noticed a sign while in a shanghai taxi : " do n't forget to carry your thing , " it said .
since then , he has published two books on the subject . most recently , " more chinglish - speaking in tongues , " which hit shelves in april . he also maintains a popular online blog .
there is a view held by many in china , and not least by the authorities , that chinglish is an embarrassment that must be wiped out at all costs .
radtke disagrees .
he says the " language " should be preserved .
" there is a lot in chinglish that is so much more than just incompetent english or incorrect english , " he said .
" a lot of the chinglish signs carry a certain chinese notion in them which enriches the english language and makes english more chinese in the sense that there is a certain chinese flavor , a certain chinese way of thinking . "
radtke focuses on written examples of the lingo on signboards , menu cards and shop fronts .
some signs highlighted in his books are decidedly politically incorrect - " cripple 's lane , " rather than " wheelchair path , " or " deformed man toilet , " instead of " handicapped restroom . "
others are more poetic , such as one sign reminding visitors to one section of the great wall of china to be careful : " do not forget the fire is heartless . "
chinese citizens warming to " chinglish " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : oliver 's book " welcome to presence " " the initial reaction of many chinese users was very much against the project .
they thought i was making fun of them , " radtke said .
but he says the chinese are increasingly supportive of his efforts , and many have come to understand that he believes chinglish is in fact enriching the english language .
radtke , as a german , believes the entire notion of one single , standard version of english is outdated because it now has far more than one billion regular users worldwide , and a rapidly growing number speak it as their second language .
in recent years , china has kicked off campaigns to root out poor english grammar and misused vocabulary in official usage .
much to radtke 's horror , the most famous of these drives took place in beijing prior to the olympic games in august last year .
during that time , authorities rechristened the dongda proctology hospital , formerly the dongda anus hospital .
however radtke maintains these campaigns will never fully succeed .
he 's optimistic that chinglish will never disappear from the mainstream .
" i 'm pessimistic when it comes to official signs in the big cities .
but restaurants , companies , private institutions , small shop owners will all produce a lot of chinglish , " he says . cg , dfm afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de eu to english speakers : put your mouth where the money is the european union wants native english speakers to put their mouths where the money is : translation work .
the bloc , which has 23 official languages , is sending out an urgent youtube plea for more english translators .
-lrb- 19.02.2009 -rrb- immigrants help create new type of german language in multicultural urban areas of germany , a new variant of german has evolved with its own grammar and rhythm .
this ethnolect is spoken among young migrants of various ethnic backgrounds as well as young native germans .
-lrb- 08.12.2007 -rrb- wanderlust sends german words traveling what do autobahn , fest , flugelhorn , angst and gesundheit all have in common ?
you guessed it : they all come from the language of goethe , thomas mann and rammstein .
you know more german words than you think you do .
-lrb- 08.08.2006 -rrb- 9797 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
twitter follow dw culture keep up on europe 's culture and lifestyle scene .
culture calendar july happenings from wagner to world music - find out what 's going on in germany 's cultural scene .
podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's free podcast series .
somewhere between poet and singer : meet hans unstern ' german pop ' homepage word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
view from my window radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
soundscape 100 concert hour arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
suspected war criminal loses us court appeal to stop deportation -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 06.11.2010 home news germany europe world from tierra del fuego to tijuana asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de world war ii -pipe- 07.05.2009 suspected war criminal loses us court appeal to stop deportation großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : john demjanjuk appears to be losing legal battle against deportation to germany a us supreme court judge has said he will not block the alleged nazi death camp guard john demjanjuk 's deportation to germany to face a war crimes trial . the 89-year-old demjanjuk claims he is too ill to fly to germany .
he is accused of being a guard at the sobibor extermination camp during world war ii and of being an accessory to the murder of some 29,000 jews .
demjanjuk , who is ukrainian born , denies the charges , saying he was captured by the nazis and then kept as a prisoner of war .
german authorities allege that demjanjuk , then 23 , worked from march-september 1943 as a guard in nazi-occupied poland at the sobibor concentration camp .
prosecutors in munich issued an arrest warrant for him in march .
the us supreme court move was seen as one of the last ways to prevent his being taken to germany .
however , under court rules , his lawyers may still submit applications for a stay to the court 's other eight justices .
the lower court had dismissed arguments by demjanjuk 's lawyer that transporting him to germany would pose an undue risk to his health .
it accepted us government assurances that he would receive sufficient medical care during the trip .
the us justice department said it would continue to work with the german government on demjanjuk 's removal , but a spokeswoman could not provide details about the timing of a possible deportation .
a german tribunal earlier on thursday ruled that the german government is under no duty to oppose demjanjuk 's expulsion from us soil to germany .
following world war ii , demjanjuk lived in germany as a refugee until 1952 when he changed his first name from ivan to john and moved to the united states .
demjanjuk was acquitted in 1993 by the israeli supreme court of charges that he worked at a different death camp , treblinka , saving him from the death sentence of a lower court in israel .
but when he returned to the us , he was stripped of his us citizenship . nrt , mh dpa / reuters / ap send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan new web site check out deutsche welle 's new asia page in english .
dw asia online news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's newest media partner latin america take a multimedia journey discover the region and its people © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
doubts remain over medvedev 's power and policy after first year in office -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 14.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de russia -pipe- 07.05.2009 doubts remain over medvedev 's power and policy after first year in office großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : medvedev has had a busy first 12 months in power russian president dmitry medvedev marks the one-year anniversary of his coming to power on may 7 .
twelve months on , questions and doubts still remain over his legitimacy and his policies . global opinion was divided when dmitry medvedev became russian president on may 7 last year .
some saw the new leader as a puppet of vladimir putin , his predecessor and the man who medvedev had served loyally throughout his two terms in office .
others saw the incoming president as a man who could drive russia down a more liberal and democratic road , and reverse decades of state oppression .
one year on – a year during which medvedev has waged his first war and has been thrust into the forefront of the worst global economic crisis for over 80 years – questions and doubts still remain over whether medvedev is really the man leading russia and if he is , whether he is the right man to reform his nation .
so to what extent has medvedev been successful in attempting to answer those questions leveled against him ?
" from medvedev 's point of view , it 's probably been quite a successful year , " sam greene , the deputy director for operations at the carnegie endowment for international peace in moscow , told deutsche welle .
" this dual system of government which was put together – with medvedev as president and putin as prime minister – has not been without its problems but it 's worked relatively well .
it 's kept the ruling elite relatively cohesive and both medvedev and putin have remained popular politically and are seen as relatively legitimate both at home and internationally .
so it has been a success story for the experiment – which is what this presidency with putin as prime minister is ; a huge political experiment .
" but from a policy perspective , in terms of the reforms that medvedev talked about prior to becoming president ; strengthening the rule of law , diversifying the economy – there really have n't been any policy successes , " he added .
" his rhetoric has been very good .
he speaks very ably on the rule of law , on democracy , on economic liberalism but there was a lot of good rhetoric from putin on these issues for eight years and we did n't see any progress in that direction from him either . "
criticism stems from lack of reform progress much of the analysis of medvedev 's first year in power focuses on these promised reforms and the progress – or lack thereof – that russia has made in the spheres of democracy , human rights and press freedom .
according to professor margot light , a russia expert at the center for the study of global governance at the london school of economics , medvedev has fallen short of the optimists ' expectations .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : medvedev was initially against khodorkovsky 's second trial " there have been many words but very few deeds , " she said .
" medvedev came to power with everyone saying that he was far more liberal than putin .
in fact there has been very little sign of this .
it 's only been in the last couple of weeks that he 's started to talk the liberal talk , by giving an interview to an opposition newspaper , for example .
but apart from that there have been very little progress .
there has been the second trial of -lrb- jailed russian oil oligarch mikhail -rrb- khodorkovsky , even though medvedev himself seemed to be against it ; the electronic media is no freer than it was before he came to power and the non-governmental organizations are still having a tough time so there a very few signs that he has made much progress on the democratization front . "
meanwhile , amnesty international declared on the president 's first anniversary that little had been done to improve human rights in russia since he came to power .
in a statement released on thursday , amnesty said that in some areas the situation has deteriorated despite initial improvements , specifically in relation to attacks against lawyers , journalists and opposition activists which it said were on the rise .
sam greene agrees .
" the situation with the press has n't got any better , in fact in some cases it has actually gotten worse , " he said .
" we 've seen more violence against the press .
this is not state-sponsored violence but it 's part of the current climate and it is part of the responsibility of the state to improve the atmosphere and to make clear that violence against the media will not be tolerated .
" in terms of democracy , there was some talk about reforms to the electoral laws but they 've been slow in coming , " he added .
" we saw municipal elections around the country in which the ruling party continued to dominate , continued to rely on administrative resources and its ability to manipulate the system .
we saw this very clearly in the recent mayoral elections in sochi just like month . "
leadership partners still hugely popular in russia despite these criticisms , neither medvedev nor putin has suffered a serious reversal in popularity within the populace .
in fact , both retain huge support within russia .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : medvedev is gaining the kind of star status putin enjoys " medvedev enjoys very high ratings but the problem has always been that russians appear to prefer order to justice , " light said .
" russians are in favor of tough measures if they believe that those tough measures actually make the country more orderly .
so the president and putin still enjoy enormous support from the population . "
sam greene admits that medvedev and putin may have seen a minor dip in popularity but this is mainly due to the current economic crisis , which has seen unemployment in russia increase and income decrease , and not because of any democratic or liberal failures .
but greene believes that the population does n't hold the leadership partners responsible for its economic woes .
“ the people do n't blame medvedev and putin for these problems nor do they really expect the government or medvedev to be able to do much about them , " he said .
" the people are quite pragmatic , if not cynical , about the russian government 's ability to deal with this crisis . "
while medvedev 's polices have been increasingly scrutinized since he came to power , the partnership agreement struck between the president and his prime minister has also come under close inspection during this first year .
questions remain over who really is the boss bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the partnership has to and will endure , say experts the state of the two men 's relationship has been the subject of intense speculation lately as medvedev has grown into his role and repeated reports of an imminent split between the two have begun to circulate .
but both sam greene and margot light believe the partnership will endure .
" i think there was a very clear arrangement between the two of them ahead of their presidential election under which it was agreed that they were playing on the same team and playing the same role which was to maintain the outward legitimacy and stability of the political system and to mediate conflict between the various groups in the elite , " greene said .
" i would n't expect them to work at cross purposes unless there was a real split between the powerful elite in the country .
there seems to be a broad consensus that this current system needs to continue so i think the relationship between medvedev and putin will remain stable .
the only thing that 's changed is that medvedev has become a bit more comfortable in the position , has begun to understand what he can and can not do and become more confident with his rhetoric and his public persona . "
" there have been lots of attempts to find cracks between them , " light added .
" i think it 's fanciful .
i see no cracks between them .
if medvedev was there just to hold the place for putin until he could run again , the danger was always that medvedev would like the taste of power and decide he wanted to keep it for himself .
i see no sign that this has happened – yet , at any rate .
" however , internationally , medvedev is still seen very much as an instrument of putin 's policy , " light concluded .
" although he fulfills all the roles the constitution affords to the president , i still think there is a very strong feeling internationally that putin is making the decisions and medvedev is simply doing his bidding . "
author : nick amies editor chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de pro-kremlin candidate wins sochi mayoral poll amid claims of fraud amid claims of fraud , anatoly pakhomov , the pro-kremlin candidate in mayoral polls for the russian city of sochi , won a landslide victory in an election seen as a test of the political climate under president medvedev .
-lrb- 27.04.2009 -rrb- critics call putin treason bill means to quash opposition human rights organizations have criticized a new bill that would abolish jury trials for people suspected of treason , hostage-taking , organizing mass disturbances and several other serious crimes .
-lrb- 18.12.2008 -rrb- opinion : russia 's power duo offers tenuous political stability it 's an action-packed week in russian politics with dmitry medvedev and vladimir putin taking up their respective offices .
yet everything is not as rosy as it might appear , says deutsche welle 's ingo mannteufel .
-lrb- 05.05.2008 -rrb- 9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - news with in depth we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
unemployment facing high unemployment at home , many young spaniards are trying their luck in germany .
watch the video tour de danger why have there been so many violent crashes at this year 's tour de france ?
listen to the audio world war ii nazi leader adolf hitler 's austrian birthplace kicks him off its list of honorary citizens .
listen to the audio inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german industrial orders make surprise jump -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.10.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de business -pipe- 07.05.2009 german industrial orders make surprise jump großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : daimler truck factory in woerth - demand for german manufactured goods is up german industrial orders in march showed their first rise for six months , on the back of an increase in orders from abroad . preliminary government figures show that german industrial orders grew an unexpected 3.3 percent in march , driven by an increase in demand from abroad .
the rise - economists had expected a moderate fall for the world 's top exporter - is the first piece of hard data to back up the government 's prediction that the economy is set to grow slightly in 2010 .
the german economy is expected to experience negative growth of around six percent this year .
germany 's economics ministry said the seasonally adjusted rise did not even begin to make up for recent months , with orders for goods falling by 14.5 percent in the first quarter .
the ministry said , though , that the latest numbers showed the trend had changed .
the march increase compared with a 3.1 percent drop in february ; and was largely due to a 5.6 percent increase in orders from abroad .
domestic orders also grew by just over one percent .
the month-on-month climb in march was stronger than expected and indicated that europe 's biggest economy may already be on the rebound from the worst effects of the global recession .
however , the european commission slashed its economic projections on monday , saying europe 's economy would shrink by four per cent this year .
that 's double the figure that it predicted at the start of the year . ch / pfd , rtr / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german business confidence falls ; economists say turnaround near business confidence in europe 's largest economy has reached an all time low , but according to some economists , things could level out and even rebound in the coming months .
-lrb- 26.03.2009 -rrb- europe to lose 3.5 million jobs in 2009 , study says a new study by the eu commission says that jobless rolls in the european union will swell by a further 3.5 million this year as the global economic slowdown batters labor markets across europe .
-lrb- 18.02.2009 -rrb- airbus warns of " horrible " year ahead european aircraft manufacturing giant airbus expects a dismal year with orders plummeting as the global economic crisis hits the aviation industry .
-lrb- 15.01.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live learning by ear listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
doubts remain over medvedev 's power and policy after first year in office -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 10.10.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de russia -pipe- 07.05.2009 doubts remain over medvedev 's power and policy after first year in office großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : medvedev has had a busy first 12 months in power russian president dmitry medvedev marks the one-year anniversary of his coming to power on may 7 .
twelve months on , questions and doubts still remain over his legitimacy and his policies . global opinion was divided when dmitry medvedev became russian president on may 7 last year .
some saw the new leader as a puppet of vladimir putin , his predecessor and the man who medvedev had served loyally throughout his two terms in office .
others saw the incoming president as a man who could drive russia down a more liberal and democratic road , and reverse decades of state oppression .
one year on – a year during which medvedev has waged his first war and has been thrust into the forefront of the worst global economic crisis for over 80 years – questions and doubts still remain over whether medvedev is really the man leading russia and if he is , whether he is the right man to reform his nation .
so to what extent has medvedev been successful in attempting to answer those questions leveled against him ?
" from medvedev 's point of view , it 's probably been quite a successful year , " sam greene , the deputy director for operations at the carnegie endowment for international peace in moscow , told deutsche welle .
" this dual system of government which was put together – with medvedev as president and putin as prime minister – has not been without its problems but it 's worked relatively well .
it 's kept the ruling elite relatively cohesive and both medvedev and putin have remained popular politically and are seen as relatively legitimate both at home and internationally .
so it has been a success story for the experiment – which is what this presidency with putin as prime minister is ; a huge political experiment .
" but from a policy perspective , in terms of the reforms that medvedev talked about prior to becoming president ; strengthening the rule of law , diversifying the economy – there really have n't been any policy successes , " he added .
" his rhetoric has been very good .
he speaks very ably on the rule of law , on democracy , on economic liberalism but there was a lot of good rhetoric from putin on these issues for eight years and we did n't see any progress in that direction from him either . "
criticism stems from lack of reform progress much of the analysis of medvedev 's first year in power focuses on these promised reforms and the progress – or lack thereof – that russia has made in the spheres of democracy , human rights and press freedom .
according to professor margot light , a russia expert at the center for the study of global governance at the london school of economics , medvedev has fallen short of the optimists ' expectations .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : medvedev was initially against khodorkovsky 's second trial " there have been many words but very few deeds , " she said .
" medvedev came to power with everyone saying that he was far more liberal than putin .
in fact there has been very little sign of this .
it 's only been in the last couple of weeks that he 's started to talk the liberal talk , by giving an interview to an opposition newspaper , for example .
but apart from that there have been very little progress .
there has been the second trial of -lrb- jailed russian oil oligarch mikhail -rrb- khodorkovsky , even though medvedev himself seemed to be against it ; the electronic media is no freer than it was before he came to power and the non-governmental organizations are still having a tough time so there a very few signs that he has made much progress on the democratization front . "
meanwhile , amnesty international declared on the president 's first anniversary that little had been done to improve human rights in russia since he came to power .
in a statement released on thursday , amnesty said that in some areas the situation has deteriorated despite initial improvements , specifically in relation to attacks against lawyers , journalists and opposition activists which it said were on the rise .
sam greene agrees .
" the situation with the press has n't got any better , in fact in some cases it has actually gotten worse , " he said .
" we 've seen more violence against the press .
this is not state-sponsored violence but it 's part of the current climate and it is part of the responsibility of the state to improve the atmosphere and to make clear that violence against the media will not be tolerated .
" in terms of democracy , there was some talk about reforms to the electoral laws but they 've been slow in coming , " he added .
" we saw municipal elections around the country in which the ruling party continued to dominate , continued to rely on administrative resources and its ability to manipulate the system .
we saw this very clearly in the recent mayoral elections in sochi just like month . "
leadership partners still hugely popular in russia despite these criticisms , neither medvedev nor putin has suffered a serious reversal in popularity within the populace .
in fact , both retain huge support within russia .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : medvedev is gaining the kind of star status putin enjoys " medvedev enjoys very high ratings but the problem has always been that russians appear to prefer order to justice , " light said .
" russians are in favor of tough measures if they believe that those tough measures actually make the country more orderly .
so the president and putin still enjoy enormous support from the population . "
sam greene admits that medvedev and putin may have seen a minor dip in popularity but this is mainly due to the current economic crisis , which has seen unemployment in russia increase and income decrease , and not because of any democratic or liberal failures .
but greene believes that the population does n't hold the leadership partners responsible for its economic woes .
“ the people do n't blame medvedev and putin for these problems nor do they really expect the government or medvedev to be able to do much about them , " he said .
" the people are quite pragmatic , if not cynical , about the russian government 's ability to deal with this crisis . "
while medvedev 's polices have been increasingly scrutinized since he came to power , the partnership agreement struck between the president and his prime minister has also come under close inspection during this first year .
questions remain over who really is the boss bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the partnership has to and will endure , say experts the state of the two men 's relationship has been the subject of intense speculation lately as medvedev has grown into his role and repeated reports of an imminent split between the two have begun to circulate .
but both sam greene and margot light believe the partnership will endure .
" i think there was a very clear arrangement between the two of them ahead of their presidential election under which it was agreed that they were playing on the same team and playing the same role which was to maintain the outward legitimacy and stability of the political system and to mediate conflict between the various groups in the elite , " greene said .
" i would n't expect them to work at cross purposes unless there was a real split between the powerful elite in the country .
there seems to be a broad consensus that this current system needs to continue so i think the relationship between medvedev and putin will remain stable .
the only thing that 's changed is that medvedev has become a bit more comfortable in the position , has begun to understand what he can and can not do and become more confident with his rhetoric and his public persona . "
" there have been lots of attempts to find cracks between them , " light added .
" i think it 's fanciful .
i see no cracks between them .
if medvedev was there just to hold the place for putin until he could run again , the danger was always that medvedev would like the taste of power and decide he wanted to keep it for himself .
i see no sign that this has happened – yet , at any rate .
" however , internationally , medvedev is still seen very much as an instrument of putin 's policy , " light concluded .
" although he fulfills all the roles the constitution affords to the president , i still think there is a very strong feeling internationally that putin is making the decisions and medvedev is simply doing his bidding . "
author : nick amies editor chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de pro-kremlin candidate wins sochi mayoral poll amid claims of fraud amid claims of fraud , anatoly pakhomov , the pro-kremlin candidate in mayoral polls for the russian city of sochi , won a landslide victory in an election seen as a test of the political climate under president medvedev .
-lrb- 27.04.2009 -rrb- critics call putin treason bill means to quash opposition human rights organizations have criticized a new bill that would abolish jury trials for people suspected of treason , hostage-taking , organizing mass disturbances and several other serious crimes .
-lrb- 18.12.2008 -rrb- opinion : russia 's power duo offers tenuous political stability it 's an action-packed week in russian politics with dmitry medvedev and vladimir putin taking up their respective offices .
yet everything is not as rosy as it might appear , says deutsche welle 's ingo mannteufel .
-lrb- 05.05.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live faith matters we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live concert hour listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
quo vadis bosnia ?
betancourt book sparks controversy in france technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
doubts remain over medvedev 's power and policy after first year in office -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.12.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de russia -pipe- 07.05.2009 doubts remain over medvedev 's power and policy after first year in office großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : medvedev has had a busy first 12 months in power russian president dmitry medvedev marks the one-year anniversary of his coming to power on may 7 .
twelve months on , questions and doubts still remain over his legitimacy and his policies . global opinion was divided when dmitry medvedev became russian president on may 7 last year .
some saw the new leader as a puppet of vladimir putin , his predecessor and the man who medvedev had served loyally throughout his two terms in office .
others saw the incoming president as a man who could drive russia down a more liberal and democratic road , and reverse decades of state oppression .
one year on – a year during which medvedev has waged his first war and has been thrust into the forefront of the worst global economic crisis for over 80 years – questions and doubts still remain over whether medvedev is really the man leading russia and if he is , whether he is the right man to reform his nation .
so to what extent has medvedev been successful in attempting to answer those questions leveled against him ?
" from medvedev 's point of view , it 's probably been quite a successful year , " sam greene , the deputy director for operations at the carnegie endowment for international peace in moscow , told deutsche welle .
" this dual system of government which was put together – with medvedev as president and putin as prime minister – has not been without its problems but it 's worked relatively well .
it 's kept the ruling elite relatively cohesive and both medvedev and putin have remained popular politically and are seen as relatively legitimate both at home and internationally .
so it has been a success story for the experiment – which is what this presidency with putin as prime minister is ; a huge political experiment .
" but from a policy perspective , in terms of the reforms that medvedev talked about prior to becoming president ; strengthening the rule of law , diversifying the economy – there really have n't been any policy successes , " he added .
" his rhetoric has been very good .
he speaks very ably on the rule of law , on democracy , on economic liberalism but there was a lot of good rhetoric from putin on these issues for eight years and we did n't see any progress in that direction from him either . "
criticism stems from lack of reform progress much of the analysis of medvedev 's first year in power focuses on these promised reforms and the progress – or lack thereof – that russia has made in the spheres of democracy , human rights and press freedom .
according to professor margot light , a russia expert at the center for the study of global governance at the london school of economics , medvedev has fallen short of the optimists ' expectations .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : medvedev was initially against khodorkovsky 's second trial " there have been many words but very few deeds , " she said .
" medvedev came to power with everyone saying that he was far more liberal than putin .
in fact there has been very little sign of this .
it 's only been in the last couple of weeks that he 's started to talk the liberal talk , by giving an interview to an opposition newspaper , for example .
but apart from that there have been very little progress .
there has been the second trial of -lrb- jailed russian oil oligarch mikhail -rrb- khodorkovsky , even though medvedev himself seemed to be against it ; the electronic media is no freer than it was before he came to power and the non-governmental organizations are still having a tough time so there a very few signs that he has made much progress on the democratization front . "
meanwhile , amnesty international declared on the president 's first anniversary that little had been done to improve human rights in russia since he came to power .
in a statement released on thursday , amnesty said that in some areas the situation has deteriorated despite initial improvements , specifically in relation to attacks against lawyers , journalists and opposition activists which it said were on the rise .
sam greene agrees .
" the situation with the press has n't got any better , in fact in some cases it has actually gotten worse , " he said .
" we 've seen more violence against the press .
this is not state-sponsored violence but it 's part of the current climate and it is part of the responsibility of the state to improve the atmosphere and to make clear that violence against the media will not be tolerated .
" in terms of democracy , there was some talk about reforms to the electoral laws but they 've been slow in coming , " he added .
" we saw municipal elections around the country in which the ruling party continued to dominate , continued to rely on administrative resources and its ability to manipulate the system .
we saw this very clearly in the recent mayoral elections in sochi just like month . "
leadership partners still hugely popular in russia despite these criticisms , neither medvedev nor putin has suffered a serious reversal in popularity within the populace .
in fact , both retain huge support within russia .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : medvedev is gaining the kind of star status putin enjoys " medvedev enjoys very high ratings but the problem has always been that russians appear to prefer order to justice , " light said .
" russians are in favor of tough measures if they believe that those tough measures actually make the country more orderly .
so the president and putin still enjoy enormous support from the population . "
sam greene admits that medvedev and putin may have seen a minor dip in popularity but this is mainly due to the current economic crisis , which has seen unemployment in russia increase and income decrease , and not because of any democratic or liberal failures .
but greene believes that the population does n't hold the leadership partners responsible for its economic woes .
“ the people do n't blame medvedev and putin for these problems nor do they really expect the government or medvedev to be able to do much about them , " he said .
" the people are quite pragmatic , if not cynical , about the russian government 's ability to deal with this crisis . "
while medvedev 's polices have been increasingly scrutinized since he came to power , the partnership agreement struck between the president and his prime minister has also come under close inspection during this first year .
questions remain over who really is the boss bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the partnership has to and will endure , say experts the state of the two men 's relationship has been the subject of intense speculation lately as medvedev has grown into his role and repeated reports of an imminent split between the two have begun to circulate .
but both sam greene and margot light believe the partnership will endure .
" i think there was a very clear arrangement between the two of them ahead of their presidential election under which it was agreed that they were playing on the same team and playing the same role which was to maintain the outward legitimacy and stability of the political system and to mediate conflict between the various groups in the elite , " greene said .
" i would n't expect them to work at cross purposes unless there was a real split between the powerful elite in the country .
there seems to be a broad consensus that this current system needs to continue so i think the relationship between medvedev and putin will remain stable .
the only thing that 's changed is that medvedev has become a bit more comfortable in the position , has begun to understand what he can and can not do and become more confident with his rhetoric and his public persona . "
" there have been lots of attempts to find cracks between them , " light added .
" i think it 's fanciful .
i see no cracks between them .
if medvedev was there just to hold the place for putin until he could run again , the danger was always that medvedev would like the taste of power and decide he wanted to keep it for himself .
i see no sign that this has happened – yet , at any rate .
" however , internationally , medvedev is still seen very much as an instrument of putin 's policy , " light concluded .
" although he fulfills all the roles the constitution affords to the president , i still think there is a very strong feeling internationally that putin is making the decisions and medvedev is simply doing his bidding . "
author : nick amies editor chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de pro-kremlin candidate wins sochi mayoral poll amid claims of fraud amid claims of fraud , anatoly pakhomov , the pro-kremlin candidate in mayoral polls for the russian city of sochi , won a landslide victory in an election seen as a test of the political climate under president medvedev .
-lrb- 27.04.2009 -rrb- critics call putin treason bill means to quash opposition human rights organizations have criticized a new bill that would abolish jury trials for people suspected of treason , hostage-taking , organizing mass disturbances and several other serious crimes .
-lrb- 18.12.2008 -rrb- opinion : russia 's power duo offers tenuous political stability it 's an action-packed week in russian politics with dmitry medvedev and vladimir putin taking up their respective offices .
yet everything is not as rosy as it might appear , says deutsche welle 's ingo mannteufel .
-lrb- 05.05.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live popxport we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
postcard from europe : a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
steinmeier urges israeli counterpart to accept two-state plan -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 14.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de israel -pipe- 07.05.2009 steinmeier urges israeli counterpart to accept two-state plan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lieberman has been making his first official visit to berlin while in berlin , israel 's foreign minister has left a cloud over the mideast peace process , calling it a waste of money . israeli foreign minister avigdor lieberman has left german parliamentarians pessimistic about the future of the middle east peace process .
in berlin , the last stop of his four-day european tour , the right-wing minister refused to commit to a two-state solution for israel and the palestinian territories .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lieberman -lrb- right -rrb- with ruprecht polenz , chairman of the foreign affairs committee during talks with members of the german parliamentary foreign affairs committee lieberman said the peace process had been little more than a waste of money .
he also brought up iran , saying the country was a major threat .
later in the day , lieberman paid his respects at berlin 's holocaust memorial , laying a wreath at the 19,000-square-meter monument in the center of berlin .
lieberman later held talks with german interior minister wolfgang schaeuble , followed by dinner with his german counterpart frank-walter steinmeier .
germany 's top diplomat urged the controversial israeli foreign minister to adopt a two-state plan as the basis for peace in the middle east and the " sole path to peace and security . "
steinmeier emphasized that the german government expected the new israeli administration under prime minister benjamin netanyahu would abide with previous peace commitments .
the german minister said it was important to stregthen moderate forces in the region and actively involve them in the peace process .
with regard to the situation in the gaza strip , steinmeier said it was imperative that palestinians had access to aid supplies .
the israeli foreign minister , who heads a nationalist party in prime minister benjamin netanyahu 's coalition , caused a stir on his first day in office , when he announced that israel was no longer bound by the so-called annapolis peace process , which formed the basis of the israeli-palestinian peace talks in 2008 .
lieberman 's european visit - which has included meetings in rome , paris and european union talks in prague - was mostly conducted out of the media eye .
in berlin , no joint press conference or photo call was scheduled for his meeting with steinmeier .
this echoed lieberman 's reception in france , where foreign minister bernard kouchner chose not to hold a joint press conference as had been customary when lieberman 's predecessor tzipi livni came to paris . ch / pfd / nrt , rtr / dpa / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de merkel says " no alternative " to two-state solution in middle east german chancellor angela merkel has said there is no alternative to a two-state solution to the mideast crisis following talks in berlin on wednesday with jordan 's king abdullah ii .
-lrb- 06.05.2009 -rrb- netanyahu demands that palestinians recognize israel as jewish state israeli prime minister benjamin netanyahu has demanded palestinians recognize israel as a jewish state .
the call was made during his meeting with the visiting us special envoy to the middle east , george mitchell .
-lrb- 16.04.2009 -rrb- opinion : labour decision to join likud harms hopes for peace israeli labour party head ehud barack 's decision to take part in a government led by hardliner benjamin netanyahu is a disservice to the labour party and , more importantly , to hopes for peace , writes dw 's peter philipp .
-lrb- 25.03.2009 -rrb- 9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit tagesthema we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live arts on the air listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
digital street art artists in berlin reinvent graffiti by projecting light onto buildings using computer systems .
watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
berlin holds 47 percent of troubled hypo real estate -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de economy -pipe- 07.05.2009 berlin holds 47 percent of troubled hypo real estate großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : berlin 's buy up of shares has given the green light to nationalization the german government has announced it now holds more than 47 percent of the mortgage lender , hypo real estate , following its decision to take over the troubled lender . the government 's financial market stabilization fund , soffin , now holds a 47.31 percent share of munich-based hre , after the government 's bid to buy up shareholders ' stock .
the government 's offer , worth 290 million euros -lrb- $ 386 million -rrb- , expired at midnight monday .
each share had a cash offer of 1.39 euros .
in berlin , finance minister peer steinbrueck said he was pleased with the results of the share buy offer .
" this now means the government can continue with the planned takeover of hre shares , according to stock corporation law , " he said .
" only with the complete government takeover can hre 's survival be ensured and the taxpayers ' interests protected , " steinbrueck added . despite the fact that berlin failed to come up with 50 percent of shares , steinbrueck said that soffin could complete a takeover of the firm through means made available by german shareholder law .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : soffin 's rehm says hypo needs to be rescued to ensure the stabilty of germany 's economy hannes rehm , chairman of the soffin management committee , is optimistic that will happen : " we will consistently pursue our efforts to stabilize hre , " he said .
" the bank is of systemic relevance and must be rescued in order to ensure stability of the financial markets and the german economy .
i expect the envisaged capital increase to be approved by the extraordinary general meeting , " he added .
a capital increase is a type of equity issuance in which new stocks are offered for sale .
hre shareholders have been invited to the extraordinary general meeting on june 2 .
at the meeting , soffin will subscribe all of the new shares , excluding subscription rights of the shareholders .
this will give it a majority of 90 percent , as well as voting rights .
that will pave the way for a takeover of the shares held by the remaining minority shareholders - through a so-called " squeeze-out " procedure .
soffin does not expect the price to exceed the original offer price of 1.39 euros per share .
us private equity firm jc flowers & co , which rejects the government 's plans , still owns about 14 percent of hre . cg / rm , reuters / dp / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de nationalization is on the horizon for beleagered hypo real estate bank the german government has invested more than 100 billion euros in ailing mortgage lender hypo real estate bank to ensure it does n't collapse - now it wants total control .
-lrb- 05.05.2009 -rrb- hre to post more losses , takeover deadline looms as the german government and a us investment group battle over shares in the hypo real estate bank , it seems the struggling lender is still losing money .
-lrb- 04.05.2009 -rrb- flowers rejects government takeover bid for hre a major legal battle for the ownership of german bank hypo real estate is looming after a major investor rejected a bid from the german government .
-lrb- 30.04.2009 -rrb- 9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - news with business we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live spectrum more efficient nuclear power , qr code coins , a chemicals in space and the future of nasa 's employees listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
digital street art artists in berlin reinvent graffiti by projecting light onto buildings using computer systems .
watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
doubts remain over medvedev 's power and policy after first year in office -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 07.09.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de russia -pipe- 07.05.2009 doubts remain over medvedev 's power and policy after first year in office großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : medvedev has had a busy first 12 months in power russian president dmitry medvedev marks the one-year anniversary of his coming to power on may 7 .
twelve months on , questions and doubts still remain over his legitimacy and his policies . global opinion was divided when dmitry medvedev became russian president on may 7 last year .
some saw the new leader as a puppet of vladimir putin , his predecessor and the man who medvedev had served loyally throughout his two terms in office .
others saw the incoming president as a man who could drive russia down a more liberal and democratic road , and reverse decades of state oppression .
one year on – a year during which medvedev has waged his first war and has been thrust into the forefront of the worst global economic crisis for over 80 years – questions and doubts still remain over whether medvedev is really the man leading russia and if he is , whether he is the right man to reform his nation .
so to what extent has medvedev been successful in attempting to answer those questions leveled against him ?
" from medvedev 's point of view , it 's probably been quite a successful year , " sam greene , the deputy director for operations at the carnegie endowment for international peace in moscow , told deutsche welle .
" this dual system of government which was put together – with medvedev as president and putin as prime minister – has not been without its problems but it 's worked relatively well .
it 's kept the ruling elite relatively cohesive and both medvedev and putin have remained popular politically and are seen as relatively legitimate both at home and internationally .
so it has been a success story for the experiment – which is what this presidency with putin as prime minister is ; a huge political experiment .
" but from a policy perspective , in terms of the reforms that medvedev talked about prior to becoming president ; strengthening the rule of law , diversifying the economy – there really have n't been any policy successes , " he added .
" his rhetoric has been very good .
he speaks very ably on the rule of law , on democracy , on economic liberalism but there was a lot of good rhetoric from putin on these issues for eight years and we did n't see any progress in that direction from him either . "
criticism stems from lack of reform progress much of the analysis of medvedev 's first year in power focuses on these promised reforms and the progress – or lack thereof – that russia has made in the spheres of democracy , human rights and press freedom .
according to professor margot light , a russia expert at the center for the study of global governance at the london school of economics , medvedev has fallen short of the optimists ' expectations .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : medvedev was initially against khodorkovsky 's second trial " there have been many words but very few deeds , " she said .
" medvedev came to power with everyone saying that he was far more liberal than putin .
in fact there has been very little sign of this .
it 's only been in the last couple of weeks that he 's started to talk the liberal talk , by giving an interview to an opposition newspaper , for example .
but apart from that there have been very little progress .
there has been the second trial of -lrb- jailed russian oil oligarch mikhail -rrb- khodorkovsky , even though medvedev himself seemed to be against it ; the electronic media is no freer than it was before he came to power and the non-governmental organizations are still having a tough time so there a very few signs that he has made much progress on the democratization front . "
meanwhile , amnesty international declared on the president 's first anniversary that little had been done to improve human rights in russia since he came to power .
in a statement released on thursday , amnesty said that in some areas the situation has deteriorated despite initial improvements , specifically in relation to attacks against lawyers , journalists and opposition activists which it said were on the rise .
sam greene agrees .
" the situation with the press has n't got any better , in fact in some cases it has actually gotten worse , " he said .
" we 've seen more violence against the press .
this is not state-sponsored violence but it 's part of the current climate and it is part of the responsibility of the state to improve the atmosphere and to make clear that violence against the media will not be tolerated .
" in terms of democracy , there was some talk about reforms to the electoral laws but they 've been slow in coming , " he added .
" we saw municipal elections around the country in which the ruling party continued to dominate , continued to rely on administrative resources and its ability to manipulate the system .
we saw this very clearly in the recent mayoral elections in sochi just like month . "
leadership partners still hugely popular in russia despite these criticisms , neither medvedev nor putin has suffered a serious reversal in popularity within the populace .
in fact , both retain huge support within russia .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : medvedev is gaining the kind of star status putin enjoys " medvedev enjoys very high ratings but the problem has always been that russians appear to prefer order to justice , " light said .
" russians are in favor of tough measures if they believe that those tough measures actually make the country more orderly .
so the president and putin still enjoy enormous support from the population . "
sam greene admits that medvedev and putin may have seen a minor dip in popularity but this is mainly due to the current economic crisis , which has seen unemployment in russia increase and income decrease , and not because of any democratic or liberal failures .
but greene believes that the population does n't hold the leadership partners responsible for its economic woes .
“ the people do n't blame medvedev and putin for these problems nor do they really expect the government or medvedev to be able to do much about them , " he said .
" the people are quite pragmatic , if not cynical , about the russian government 's ability to deal with this crisis . "
while medvedev 's polices have been increasingly scrutinized since he came to power , the partnership agreement struck between the president and his prime minister has also come under close inspection during this first year .
questions remain over who really is the boss bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the partnership has to and will endure , say experts the state of the two men 's relationship has been the subject of intense speculation lately as medvedev has grown into his role and repeated reports of an imminent split between the two have begun to circulate .
but both sam greene and margot light believe the partnership will endure .
" i think there was a very clear arrangement between the two of them ahead of their presidential election under which it was agreed that they were playing on the same team and playing the same role which was to maintain the outward legitimacy and stability of the political system and to mediate conflict between the various groups in the elite , " greene said .
" i would n't expect them to work at cross purposes unless there was a real split between the powerful elite in the country .
there seems to be a broad consensus that this current system needs to continue so i think the relationship between medvedev and putin will remain stable .
the only thing that 's changed is that medvedev has become a bit more comfortable in the position , has begun to understand what he can and can not do and become more confident with his rhetoric and his public persona . "
" there have been lots of attempts to find cracks between them , " light added .
" i think it 's fanciful .
i see no cracks between them .
if medvedev was there just to hold the place for putin until he could run again , the danger was always that medvedev would like the taste of power and decide he wanted to keep it for himself .
i see no sign that this has happened – yet , at any rate .
" however , internationally , medvedev is still seen very much as an instrument of putin 's policy , " light concluded .
" although he fulfills all the roles the constitution affords to the president , i still think there is a very strong feeling internationally that putin is making the decisions and medvedev is simply doing his bidding . "
author : nick amies editor chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de pro-kremlin candidate wins sochi mayoral poll amid claims of fraud amid claims of fraud , anatoly pakhomov , the pro-kremlin candidate in mayoral polls for the russian city of sochi , won a landslide victory in an election seen as a test of the political climate under president medvedev .
-lrb- 27.04.2009 -rrb- critics call putin treason bill means to quash opposition human rights organizations have criticized a new bill that would abolish jury trials for people suspected of treason , hostage-taking , organizing mass disturbances and several other serious crimes .
-lrb- 18.12.2008 -rrb- opinion : russia 's power duo offers tenuous political stability it 's an action-packed week in russian politics with dmitry medvedev and vladimir putin taking up their respective offices .
yet everything is not as rosy as it might appear , says deutsche welle 's ingo mannteufel .
-lrb- 05.05.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live hits in germany pop from the german top 100 listen live immigration france plans to strip recent immigrants of their french citizenship if they commit serious crimes .
listen to the report postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
it simply is n't cricket are the gay games necessary ?
love parade - the end of an era oracle paul takes the plunge venturing into mafia turf europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
doubts remain over medvedev 's power and policy after first year in office -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 30.03.2011 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de russia -pipe- 07.05.2009 doubts remain over medvedev 's power and policy after first year in office großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : medvedev has had a busy first 12 months in power russian president dmitry medvedev marks the one-year anniversary of his coming to power on may 7 .
twelve months on , questions and doubts still remain over his legitimacy and his policies . global opinion was divided when dmitry medvedev became russian president on may 7 last year .
some saw the new leader as a puppet of vladimir putin , his predecessor and the man who medvedev had served loyally throughout his two terms in office .
others saw the incoming president as a man who could drive russia down a more liberal and democratic road , and reverse decades of state oppression .
one year on – a year during which medvedev has waged his first war and has been thrust into the forefront of the worst global economic crisis for over 80 years – questions and doubts still remain over whether medvedev is really the man leading russia and if he is , whether he is the right man to reform his nation .
so to what extent has medvedev been successful in attempting to answer those questions leveled against him ?
" from medvedev 's point of view , it 's probably been quite a successful year , " sam greene , the deputy director for operations at the carnegie endowment for international peace in moscow , told deutsche welle .
" this dual system of government which was put together – with medvedev as president and putin as prime minister – has not been without its problems but it 's worked relatively well .
it 's kept the ruling elite relatively cohesive and both medvedev and putin have remained popular politically and are seen as relatively legitimate both at home and internationally .
so it has been a success story for the experiment – which is what this presidency with putin as prime minister is ; a huge political experiment .
" but from a policy perspective , in terms of the reforms that medvedev talked about prior to becoming president ; strengthening the rule of law , diversifying the economy – there really have n't been any policy successes , " he added .
" his rhetoric has been very good .
he speaks very ably on the rule of law , on democracy , on economic liberalism but there was a lot of good rhetoric from putin on these issues for eight years and we did n't see any progress in that direction from him either . "
criticism stems from lack of reform progress much of the analysis of medvedev 's first year in power focuses on these promised reforms and the progress – or lack thereof – that russia has made in the spheres of democracy , human rights and press freedom .
according to professor margot light , a russia expert at the center for the study of global governance at the london school of economics , medvedev has fallen short of the optimists ' expectations .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : medvedev was initially against khodorkovsky 's second trial " there have been many words but very few deeds , " she said .
" medvedev came to power with everyone saying that he was far more liberal than putin .
in fact there has been very little sign of this .
it 's only been in the last couple of weeks that he 's started to talk the liberal talk , by giving an interview to an opposition newspaper , for example .
but apart from that there have been very little progress .
there has been the second trial of -lrb- jailed russian oil oligarch mikhail -rrb- khodorkovsky , even though medvedev himself seemed to be against it ; the electronic media is no freer than it was before he came to power and the non-governmental organizations are still having a tough time so there a very few signs that he has made much progress on the democratization front . "
meanwhile , amnesty international declared on the president 's first anniversary that little had been done to improve human rights in russia since he came to power .
in a statement released on thursday , amnesty said that in some areas the situation has deteriorated despite initial improvements , specifically in relation to attacks against lawyers , journalists and opposition activists which it said were on the rise .
sam greene agrees .
" the situation with the press has n't got any better , in fact in some cases it has actually gotten worse , " he said .
" we 've seen more violence against the press .
this is not state-sponsored violence but it 's part of the current climate and it is part of the responsibility of the state to improve the atmosphere and to make clear that violence against the media will not be tolerated .
" in terms of democracy , there was some talk about reforms to the electoral laws but they 've been slow in coming , " he added .
" we saw municipal elections around the country in which the ruling party continued to dominate , continued to rely on administrative resources and its ability to manipulate the system .
we saw this very clearly in the recent mayoral elections in sochi just like month . "
leadership partners still hugely popular in russia despite these criticisms , neither medvedev nor putin has suffered a serious reversal in popularity within the populace .
in fact , both retain huge support within russia .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : medvedev is gaining the kind of star status putin enjoys " medvedev enjoys very high ratings but the problem has always been that russians appear to prefer order to justice , " light said .
" russians are in favor of tough measures if they believe that those tough measures actually make the country more orderly .
so the president and putin still enjoy enormous support from the population . "
sam greene admits that medvedev and putin may have seen a minor dip in popularity but this is mainly due to the current economic crisis , which has seen unemployment in russia increase and income decrease , and not because of any democratic or liberal failures .
but greene believes that the population does n't hold the leadership partners responsible for its economic woes .
“ the people do n't blame medvedev and putin for these problems nor do they really expect the government or medvedev to be able to do much about them , " he said .
" the people are quite pragmatic , if not cynical , about the russian government 's ability to deal with this crisis . "
while medvedev 's polices have been increasingly scrutinized since he came to power , the partnership agreement struck between the president and his prime minister has also come under close inspection during this first year .
questions remain over who really is the boss bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the partnership has to and will endure , say experts the state of the two men 's relationship has been the subject of intense speculation lately as medvedev has grown into his role and repeated reports of an imminent split between the two have begun to circulate .
but both sam greene and margot light believe the partnership will endure .
" i think there was a very clear arrangement between the two of them ahead of their presidential election under which it was agreed that they were playing on the same team and playing the same role which was to maintain the outward legitimacy and stability of the political system and to mediate conflict between the various groups in the elite , " greene said .
" i would n't expect them to work at cross purposes unless there was a real split between the powerful elite in the country .
there seems to be a broad consensus that this current system needs to continue so i think the relationship between medvedev and putin will remain stable .
the only thing that 's changed is that medvedev has become a bit more comfortable in the position , has begun to understand what he can and can not do and become more confident with his rhetoric and his public persona . "
" there have been lots of attempts to find cracks between them , " light added .
" i think it 's fanciful .
i see no cracks between them .
if medvedev was there just to hold the place for putin until he could run again , the danger was always that medvedev would like the taste of power and decide he wanted to keep it for himself .
i see no sign that this has happened – yet , at any rate .
" however , internationally , medvedev is still seen very much as an instrument of putin 's policy , " light concluded .
" although he fulfills all the roles the constitution affords to the president , i still think there is a very strong feeling internationally that putin is making the decisions and medvedev is simply doing his bidding . "
author : nick amies editor chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de pro-kremlin candidate wins sochi mayoral poll amid claims of fraud amid claims of fraud , anatoly pakhomov , the pro-kremlin candidate in mayoral polls for the russian city of sochi , won a landslide victory in an election seen as a test of the political climate under president medvedev .
-lrb- 27.04.2009 -rrb- critics call putin treason bill means to quash opposition human rights organizations have criticized a new bill that would abolish jury trials for people suspected of treason , hostage-taking , organizing mass disturbances and several other serious crimes .
-lrb- 18.12.2008 -rrb- opinion : russia 's power duo offers tenuous political stability it 's an action-packed week in russian politics with dmitry medvedev and vladimir putin taking up their respective offices .
yet everything is not as rosy as it might appear , says deutsche welle 's ingo mannteufel .
-lrb- 05.05.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live projekt zukunft we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live pulse listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
italians hard hit by plastic bag ban east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
berlin holds 47 percent of troubled hypo real estate -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 29.03.2011 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de economy -pipe- 07.05.2009 berlin holds 47 percent of troubled hypo real estate großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : berlin 's buy up of shares has given the green light to nationalization the german government has announced it now holds more than 47 percent of the mortgage lender , hypo real estate , following its decision to take over the troubled lender . the government 's financial market stabilization fund , soffin , now holds a 47.31 percent share of munich-based hre , after the government 's bid to buy up shareholders ' stock .
the government 's offer , worth 290 million euros -lrb- $ 386 million -rrb- , expired at midnight monday .
each share had a cash offer of 1.39 euros .
in berlin , finance minister peer steinbrueck said he was pleased with the results of the share buy offer .
" this now means the government can continue with the planned takeover of hre shares , according to stock corporation law , " he said .
" only with the complete government takeover can hre 's survival be ensured and the taxpayers ' interests protected , " steinbrueck added . despite the fact that berlin failed to come up with 50 percent of shares , steinbrueck said that soffin could complete a takeover of the firm through means made available by german shareholder law .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : soffin 's rehm says hypo needs to be rescued to ensure the stabilty of germany 's economy hannes rehm , chairman of the soffin management committee , is optimistic that will happen : " we will consistently pursue our efforts to stabilize hre , " he said .
" the bank is of systemic relevance and must be rescued in order to ensure stability of the financial markets and the german economy .
i expect the envisaged capital increase to be approved by the extraordinary general meeting , " he added .
a capital increase is a type of equity issuance in which new stocks are offered for sale .
hre shareholders have been invited to the extraordinary general meeting on june 2 .
at the meeting , soffin will subscribe all of the new shares , excluding subscription rights of the shareholders .
this will give it a majority of 90 percent , as well as voting rights .
that will pave the way for a takeover of the shares held by the remaining minority shareholders - through a so-called " squeeze-out " procedure .
soffin does not expect the price to exceed the original offer price of 1.39 euros per share .
us private equity firm jc flowers & co , which rejects the government 's plans , still owns about 14 percent of hre . cg / rm , reuters / dp / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de nationalization is on the horizon for beleagered hypo real estate bank the german government has invested more than 100 billion euros in ailing mortgage lender hypo real estate bank to ensure it does n't collapse - now it wants total control .
-lrb- 05.05.2009 -rrb- hre to post more losses , takeover deadline looms as the german government and a us investment group battle over shares in the hypo real estate bank , it seems the struggling lender is still losing money .
-lrb- 04.05.2009 -rrb- flowers rejects government takeover bid for hre a major legal battle for the ownership of german bank hypo real estate is looming after a major investor rejected a bid from the german government .
-lrb- 30.04.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live hits in germany the latest from germany 's top 100 ... and more !
listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
eu approves commerzbank bailout -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 05.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de banking -pipe- 07.05.2009 eu approves commerzbank bailout großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : commerzbank was the first german bank to tap into the government 's rescue fund brussels has approved an 18-billion-euro government bailout of germany ’ s second largest bank .
the eu had requested assurances that the money will not give the bank an unfair edge over competitors . part of the money is already on commerzbank 's balance sheets after berlin injected 8 billion euros -lrb- $ 10.6 billion -rrb- into the bank in december last year .
now , commerzbank stands to receive another 10 billion euros of fresh capital .
berlin however needed the approval of brussels and on thursday the eu commission gave its green light .
" on the basis of the notified plans , the commission is satisfied that commerzbank 's long term viability has been demonstrated , and that the aid is kept to the minimum and will not lead to undue distortions of competition .
it has therefore declared the aid compatible , " the eu executive said in a statement .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : frankfurt 's skyline of bank headquarters was rocked by the global finacial crisis but the government aid will be tied to strict restructuring conditions .
commerzbank will have to sell its eurohypo unit , a major european player in the real estate business .
in addition , the bank will be banned for three years from buying other financial institutes that it competes with .
commerzbank , which is germany 's second largest private bank with a balance sheet total of 1,100 billion euros of capital , ran into financial trouble as a result of the global credit crunch .
berlin has welcomed the decision from brussels .
a government spokeswoman said it was " an important step to strengthen the trust in the government 's bailout fund . "
in the wake of the global financial crisis , germany has created a 470-billion-euro rescue fund to support the struggling sector . ai / rm , dpa / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de conditions for commerzbank aid package appear to be set the european commission has set conditions for commerzbank to get an 18 billion euros -lrb- $ 23 billion -rrb- rescue package from the german government .
the bank is expected to shed its eurohypo unit .
-lrb- 22.04.2009 -rrb- german government takes large stake in commerzbank the german government has agreed to take a 25-percent share in commerzbank .
the move signals the first time the government has taken a stake in a major private bank and comes as commerzbank is set to buy dresdner bank .
-lrb- 09.01.2009 -rrb- merkel seeks to make bank bailouts more attractive germany 's rescue package for struggling banks may be in for a revamp to make it more appealing to financial institutions that have so far rejected it , german media reported tuesday .
-lrb- 02.12.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live kick off !
countdown we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inside europe listen live stock exchange today in history 1929 : heart catheter � self experiment © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
berlin holds 47 percent of troubled hypo real estate -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.10.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de economy -pipe- 07.05.2009 berlin holds 47 percent of troubled hypo real estate großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : berlin 's buy up of shares has given the green light to nationalization the german government has announced it now holds more than 47 percent of the mortgage lender , hypo real estate , following its decision to take over the troubled lender . the government 's financial market stabilization fund , soffin , now holds a 47.31 percent share of munich-based hre , after the government 's bid to buy up shareholders ' stock .
the government 's offer , worth 290 million euros -lrb- $ 386 million -rrb- , expired at midnight monday .
each share had a cash offer of 1.39 euros .
in berlin , finance minister peer steinbrueck said he was pleased with the results of the share buy offer .
" this now means the government can continue with the planned takeover of hre shares , according to stock corporation law , " he said .
" only with the complete government takeover can hre 's survival be ensured and the taxpayers ' interests protected , " steinbrueck added . despite the fact that berlin failed to come up with 50 percent of shares , steinbrueck said that soffin could complete a takeover of the firm through means made available by german shareholder law .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : soffin 's rehm says hypo needs to be rescued to ensure the stabilty of germany 's economy hannes rehm , chairman of the soffin management committee , is optimistic that will happen : " we will consistently pursue our efforts to stabilize hre , " he said .
" the bank is of systemic relevance and must be rescued in order to ensure stability of the financial markets and the german economy .
i expect the envisaged capital increase to be approved by the extraordinary general meeting , " he added .
a capital increase is a type of equity issuance in which new stocks are offered for sale .
hre shareholders have been invited to the extraordinary general meeting on june 2 .
at the meeting , soffin will subscribe all of the new shares , excluding subscription rights of the shareholders .
this will give it a majority of 90 percent , as well as voting rights .
that will pave the way for a takeover of the shares held by the remaining minority shareholders - through a so-called " squeeze-out " procedure .
soffin does not expect the price to exceed the original offer price of 1.39 euros per share .
us private equity firm jc flowers & co , which rejects the government 's plans , still owns about 14 percent of hre . cg / rm , reuters / dp / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de nationalization is on the horizon for beleagered hypo real estate bank the german government has invested more than 100 billion euros in ailing mortgage lender hypo real estate bank to ensure it does n't collapse - now it wants total control .
-lrb- 05.05.2009 -rrb- hre to post more losses , takeover deadline looms as the german government and a us investment group battle over shares in the hypo real estate bank , it seems the struggling lender is still losing money .
-lrb- 04.05.2009 -rrb- flowers rejects government takeover bid for hre a major legal battle for the ownership of german bank hypo real estate is looming after a major investor rejected a bid from the german government .
-lrb- 30.04.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live in focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live hits in germany pop from the top 100 listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
suspected war criminal loses us court appeal to stop deportation -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 21.09.2010 home news germany europe world from tierra del fuego to tijuana asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de world war ii -pipe- 07.05.2009 suspected war criminal loses us court appeal to stop deportation großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : john demjanjuk appears to be losing legal battle against deportation to germany a us supreme court judge has said he will not block the alleged nazi death camp guard john demjanjuk 's deportation to germany to face a war crimes trial . the 89-year-old demjanjuk claims he is too ill to fly to germany .
he is accused of being a guard at the sobibor extermination camp during world war ii and of being an accessory to the murder of some 29,000 jews .
demjanjuk , who is ukrainian born , denies the charges , saying he was captured by the nazis and then kept as a prisoner of war .
german authorities allege that demjanjuk , then 23 , worked from march-september 1943 as a guard in nazi-occupied poland at the sobibor concentration camp .
prosecutors in munich issued an arrest warrant for him in march .
the us supreme court move was seen as one of the last ways to prevent his being taken to germany .
however , under court rules , his lawyers may still submit applications for a stay to the court 's other eight justices .
the lower court had dismissed arguments by demjanjuk 's lawyer that transporting him to germany would pose an undue risk to his health .
it accepted us government assurances that he would receive sufficient medical care during the trip .
the us justice department said it would continue to work with the german government on demjanjuk 's removal , but a spokeswoman could not provide details about the timing of a possible deportation .
a german tribunal earlier on thursday ruled that the german government is under no duty to oppose demjanjuk 's expulsion from us soil to germany .
following world war ii , demjanjuk lived in germany as a refugee until 1952 when he changed his first name from ivan to john and moved to the united states .
demjanjuk was acquitted in 1993 by the israeli supreme court of charges that he worked at a different death camp , treblinka , saving him from the death sentence of a lower court in israel .
but when he returned to the us , he was stripped of his us citizenship . nrt , mh dpa / reuters / ap send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live in focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live pulse listen live diplomatic row dw 's china correspondent on rising sino-japanese tensions following arrest of chinese trawlerman .
listen to the interview learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan new web site check out deutsche welle 's new asia page in english .
dw asia online news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's newest media partner latin america take a multimedia journey discover the region and its people © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
suspected war criminal loses us court appeal to stop deportation -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 14.12.2010 home news germany europe world from tierra del fuego to tijuana asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de world war ii -pipe- 07.05.2009 suspected war criminal loses us court appeal to stop deportation großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : john demjanjuk appears to be losing legal battle against deportation to germany a us supreme court judge has said he will not block the alleged nazi death camp guard john demjanjuk 's deportation to germany to face a war crimes trial . the 89-year-old demjanjuk claims he is too ill to fly to germany .
he is accused of being a guard at the sobibor extermination camp during world war ii and of being an accessory to the murder of some 29,000 jews .
demjanjuk , who is ukrainian born , denies the charges , saying he was captured by the nazis and then kept as a prisoner of war .
german authorities allege that demjanjuk , then 23 , worked from march-september 1943 as a guard in nazi-occupied poland at the sobibor concentration camp .
prosecutors in munich issued an arrest warrant for him in march .
the us supreme court move was seen as one of the last ways to prevent his being taken to germany .
however , under court rules , his lawyers may still submit applications for a stay to the court 's other eight justices .
the lower court had dismissed arguments by demjanjuk 's lawyer that transporting him to germany would pose an undue risk to his health .
it accepted us government assurances that he would receive sufficient medical care during the trip .
the us justice department said it would continue to work with the german government on demjanjuk 's removal , but a spokeswoman could not provide details about the timing of a possible deportation .
a german tribunal earlier on thursday ruled that the german government is under no duty to oppose demjanjuk 's expulsion from us soil to germany .
following world war ii , demjanjuk lived in germany as a refugee until 1952 when he changed his first name from ivan to john and moved to the united states .
demjanjuk was acquitted in 1993 by the israeli supreme court of charges that he worked at a different death camp , treblinka , saving him from the death sentence of a lower court in israel .
but when he returned to the us , he was stripped of his us citizenship . nrt , mh dpa / reuters / ap send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
haiti unrest haiti is on edge as angry protesters block streets and set fires to contest the election result .
watch the video learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan new web site check out deutsche welle 's new asia page in english .
dw asia online latin america take a multimedia journey discover the region and its people news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's newest media partner © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
suspected war criminal loses us court appeal to stop deportation -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 29.03.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de world war ii -pipe- 07.05.2009 suspected war criminal loses us court appeal to stop deportation großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : john demjanjuk appears to be losing legal battle against deportation to germany a us supreme court judge has said he will not block the alleged nazi death camp guard john demjanjuk 's deportation to germany to face a war crimes trial . the 89-year-old demjanjuk claims he is too ill to fly to germany .
he is accused of being a guard at the sobibor extermination camp during world war ii and of being an accessory to the murder of some 29,000 jews .
demjanjuk , who is ukrainian born , denies the charges , saying he was captured by the nazis and then kept as a prisoner of war .
german authorities allege that demjanjuk , then 23 , worked from march-september 1943 as a guard in nazi-occupied poland at the sobibor concentration camp .
prosecutors in munich issued an arrest warrant for him in march .
the us supreme court move was seen as one of the last ways to prevent his being taken to germany .
however , under court rules , his lawyers may still submit applications for a stay to the court 's other eight justices .
the lower court had dismissed arguments by demjanjuk 's lawyer that transporting him to germany would pose an undue risk to his health .
it accepted us government assurances that he would receive sufficient medical care during the trip .
the us justice department said it would continue to work with the german government on demjanjuk 's removal , but a spokeswoman could not provide details about the timing of a possible deportation .
a german tribunal earlier on thursday ruled that the german government is under no duty to oppose demjanjuk 's expulsion from us soil to germany .
following world war ii , demjanjuk lived in germany as a refugee until 1952 when he changed his first name from ivan to john and moved to the united states .
demjanjuk was acquitted in 1993 by the israeli supreme court of charges that he worked at a different death camp , treblinka , saving him from the death sentence of a lower court in israel .
but when he returned to the us , he was stripped of his us citizenship . nrt , mh dpa / reuters / ap send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
death penalty amnesty says china and middle east countries are still the main culprits in terms of executions .
watch the video transatlantic voices expert opinion no international cooperation has been declared dead or dying as often as the european union .
international conference media representatives around the world gather in bonn to discuss human rights .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
suspected war criminal loses us court appeal to stop deportation -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de world war ii -pipe- 07.05.2009 suspected war criminal loses us court appeal to stop deportation großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : john demjanjuk appears to be losing legal battle against deportation to germany a us supreme court judge has said he will not block the alleged nazi death camp guard john demjanjuk 's deportation to germany to face a war crimes trial . the 89-year-old demjanjuk claims he is too ill to fly to germany .
he is accused of being a guard at the sobibor extermination camp during world war ii and of being an accessory to the murder of some 29,000 jews .
demjanjuk , who is ukrainian born , denies the charges , saying he was captured by the nazis and then kept as a prisoner of war .
german authorities allege that demjanjuk , then 23 , worked from march-september 1943 as a guard in nazi-occupied poland at the sobibor concentration camp .
prosecutors in munich issued an arrest warrant for him in march .
the us supreme court move was seen as one of the last ways to prevent his being taken to germany .
however , under court rules , his lawyers may still submit applications for a stay to the court 's other eight justices .
the lower court had dismissed arguments by demjanjuk 's lawyer that transporting him to germany would pose an undue risk to his health .
it accepted us government assurances that he would receive sufficient medical care during the trip .
the us justice department said it would continue to work with the german government on demjanjuk 's removal , but a spokeswoman could not provide details about the timing of a possible deportation .
a german tribunal earlier on thursday ruled that the german government is under no duty to oppose demjanjuk 's expulsion from us soil to germany .
following world war ii , demjanjuk lived in germany as a refugee until 1952 when he changed his first name from ivan to john and moved to the united states .
demjanjuk was acquitted in 1993 by the israeli supreme court of charges that he worked at a different death camp , treblinka , saving him from the death sentence of a lower court in israel .
but when he returned to the us , he was stripped of his us citizenship . nrt , mh dpa / reuters / ap send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ? 9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
cairo crisis egypt 's military council has warned protesters it will move in to break up the demonstrations .
watch the video in depth focus on libya dw-world looks at the turmoil in libya : what it means for tripoli and the rest of the world .
international conference media representatives around the world gather in bonn to discuss human rights .
podcast series by teaching stand-up comedy , bryan encourages his students to discover their talents .
download the report subscribe to the series on itunes past episodes learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
fiat reported to have plans to shut down german opel plant -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 05.11.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de auto industry -pipe- 07.05.2009 fiat reported to have plans to shut down german opel plant großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : at this stage , the road fiat plans to take in its proposed opel takeover is unclear italian auto group fiat could shut down as many as five factories , including one in germany , as part of its plans to take over the european operations of struggling us auto giant , general motors . according to media reports that cite fiat 's proposal to the german government from earlier this week , the opel plant in kaiserslautern would cease operations under fiat .
plants in bochum and the opel headquarters at ruesselsheim would , according to the reports , be scaled down , as part of " project phoenix " .
one gm plant in england , one in austria , as well as two italian factories would also be part of the shutdown list , according to the reports .
however , this contradicts fiat ceo sergio marchionne 's denial earlier this week that any of opel 's four german plans would be closed . job cuts " inevitable " - no matter who takes over bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : opel employees ' fate is still very much up in the air armin schild , a member of opel 's supervisory board , said job cuts would be inevitable in a takeover of opel .
job cut plans are one of the key criteria on which the suitability of potential investors in opel will be judged , according to a checklist drawn up by vice-chancellor frank-walter steinmeier -lrb- spd -rrb- , who will is to challenge chancellor angela merkel -lrb- cdu -rrb- in september 's federal election .
schild , who represents labor union ig metall on the board , also said the austrian-canadian car parts maker magna has so far presented a more concrete takeover proposal .
media reports have said that possible partners for magna include russian carmaker gaz as well as russia 's sberbank .
gaz and its owner , billionaire oleg deripaska , have repeatedly denied interest .
general motors teeters on bridge of bankruptcy meanwhile , opel 's parent company , general motors , has announced a quarterly net loss of six billion dollars -lrb- 4.5 billion euros -rrb- - its eighth quarterly loss in a row .
it also announced a loss of 2 billion dollars -lrb- 1.5 billion euros -rrb- from its european operations .
revenue dropped by 47 percent , to 22.4 billion dollars .
gm , the largest us carmaker , is currently operating under a us federal bail-out plan .
it is threatened with bankruptcy , as has already happened to its competitor , chrysler .
us president barack obama has given gm an end-of-may deadline for a new restructuring plan to be implemented . cg / dpa , reuters / ap / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de fiat denies it plans to cut 18,000 jobs , close factories fiat has denied a german news report that it plans to cut 18,000 jobs and close 10 factories in europe , should it succeed in its bid to take over gm 's european operations .
-lrb- 06.05.2009 -rrb- fiat boss commits to opel plants in germany the head of italian automaker fiat , sergio marchionne , has said in an interview he wants to keep open all four opel plants in germany after a possible takeover of the struggling carmaker .
-lrb- 05.05.2009 -rrb- magna meets with guttenberg over possible opel deal representatives from the canadian-austrian car parts supplier have presented germany 's economics minister with a draft plan for bailing out opel .
but the troubled carmaker remains a bone of contention .
-lrb- 28.04.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inside europe listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
fiat reported to have plans to shut down german opel plant -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 21.09.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de auto industry -pipe- 07.05.2009 fiat reported to have plans to shut down german opel plant großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : at this stage , the road fiat plans to take in its proposed opel takeover is unclear italian auto group fiat could shut down as many as five factories , including one in germany , as part of its plans to take over the european operations of struggling us auto giant , general motors . according to media reports that cite fiat 's proposal to the german government from earlier this week , the opel plant in kaiserslautern would cease operations under fiat .
plants in bochum and the opel headquarters at ruesselsheim would , according to the reports , be scaled down , as part of " project phoenix " .
one gm plant in england , one in austria , as well as two italian factories would also be part of the shutdown list , according to the reports .
however , this contradicts fiat ceo sergio marchionne 's denial earlier this week that any of opel 's four german plans would be closed . job cuts " inevitable " - no matter who takes over bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : opel employees ' fate is still very much up in the air armin schild , a member of opel 's supervisory board , said job cuts would be inevitable in a takeover of opel .
job cut plans are one of the key criteria on which the suitability of potential investors in opel will be judged , according to a checklist drawn up by vice-chancellor frank-walter steinmeier -lrb- spd -rrb- , who will is to challenge chancellor angela merkel -lrb- cdu -rrb- in september 's federal election .
schild , who represents labor union ig metall on the board , also said the austrian-canadian car parts maker magna has so far presented a more concrete takeover proposal .
media reports have said that possible partners for magna include russian carmaker gaz as well as russia 's sberbank .
gaz and its owner , billionaire oleg deripaska , have repeatedly denied interest .
general motors teeters on bridge of bankruptcy meanwhile , opel 's parent company , general motors , has announced a quarterly net loss of six billion dollars -lrb- 4.5 billion euros -rrb- - its eighth quarterly loss in a row .
it also announced a loss of 2 billion dollars -lrb- 1.5 billion euros -rrb- from its european operations .
revenue dropped by 47 percent , to 22.4 billion dollars .
gm , the largest us carmaker , is currently operating under a us federal bail-out plan .
it is threatened with bankruptcy , as has already happened to its competitor , chrysler .
us president barack obama has given gm an end-of-may deadline for a new restructuring plan to be implemented . cg / dpa , reuters / ap / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de fiat denies it plans to cut 18,000 jobs , close factories fiat has denied a german news report that it plans to cut 18,000 jobs and close 10 factories in europe , should it succeed in its bid to take over gm 's european operations .
-lrb- 06.05.2009 -rrb- fiat boss commits to opel plants in germany the head of italian automaker fiat , sergio marchionne , has said in an interview he wants to keep open all four opel plants in germany after a possible takeover of the struggling carmaker .
-lrb- 05.05.2009 -rrb- magna meets with guttenberg over possible opel deal representatives from the canadian-austrian car parts supplier have presented germany 's economics minister with a draft plan for bailing out opel .
but the troubled carmaker remains a bone of contention .
-lrb- 28.04.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live hits in germany pop from the german top 100 listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
fiat reported to have plans to shut down german opel plant -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 29.03.2011 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de auto industry -pipe- 07.05.2009 fiat reported to have plans to shut down german opel plant großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : at this stage , the road fiat plans to take in its proposed opel takeover is unclear italian auto group fiat could shut down as many as five factories , including one in germany , as part of its plans to take over the european operations of struggling us auto giant , general motors . according to media reports that cite fiat 's proposal to the german government from earlier this week , the opel plant in kaiserslautern would cease operations under fiat .
plants in bochum and the opel headquarters at ruesselsheim would , according to the reports , be scaled down , as part of " project phoenix " .
one gm plant in england , one in austria , as well as two italian factories would also be part of the shutdown list , according to the reports .
however , this contradicts fiat ceo sergio marchionne 's denial earlier this week that any of opel 's four german plans would be closed . job cuts " inevitable " - no matter who takes over bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : opel employees ' fate is still very much up in the air armin schild , a member of opel 's supervisory board , said job cuts would be inevitable in a takeover of opel .
job cut plans are one of the key criteria on which the suitability of potential investors in opel will be judged , according to a checklist drawn up by vice-chancellor frank-walter steinmeier -lrb- spd -rrb- , who will is to challenge chancellor angela merkel -lrb- cdu -rrb- in september 's federal election .
schild , who represents labor union ig metall on the board , also said the austrian-canadian car parts maker magna has so far presented a more concrete takeover proposal .
media reports have said that possible partners for magna include russian carmaker gaz as well as russia 's sberbank .
gaz and its owner , billionaire oleg deripaska , have repeatedly denied interest .
general motors teeters on bridge of bankruptcy meanwhile , opel 's parent company , general motors , has announced a quarterly net loss of six billion dollars -lrb- 4.5 billion euros -rrb- - its eighth quarterly loss in a row .
it also announced a loss of 2 billion dollars -lrb- 1.5 billion euros -rrb- from its european operations .
revenue dropped by 47 percent , to 22.4 billion dollars .
gm , the largest us carmaker , is currently operating under a us federal bail-out plan .
it is threatened with bankruptcy , as has already happened to its competitor , chrysler .
us president barack obama has given gm an end-of-may deadline for a new restructuring plan to be implemented . cg / dpa , reuters / ap / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de fiat denies it plans to cut 18,000 jobs , close factories fiat has denied a german news report that it plans to cut 18,000 jobs and close 10 factories in europe , should it succeed in its bid to take over gm 's european operations .
-lrb- 06.05.2009 -rrb- fiat boss commits to opel plants in germany the head of italian automaker fiat , sergio marchionne , has said in an interview he wants to keep open all four opel plants in germany after a possible takeover of the struggling carmaker .
-lrb- 05.05.2009 -rrb- magna meets with guttenberg over possible opel deal representatives from the canadian-austrian car parts supplier have presented germany 's economics minister with a draft plan for bailing out opel .
but the troubled carmaker remains a bone of contention .
-lrb- 28.04.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live hits in germany the latest from germany 's top 100 ... and more !
listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
fiat reported to have plans to shut down german opel plant -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de auto industry -pipe- 07.05.2009 fiat reported to have plans to shut down german opel plant großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : at this stage , the road fiat plans to take in its proposed opel takeover is unclear italian auto group fiat could shut down as many as five factories , including one in germany , as part of its plans to take over the european operations of struggling us auto giant , general motors . according to media reports that cite fiat 's proposal to the german government from earlier this week , the opel plant in kaiserslautern would cease operations under fiat .
plants in bochum and the opel headquarters at ruesselsheim would , according to the reports , be scaled down , as part of " project phoenix " .
one gm plant in england , one in austria , as well as two italian factories would also be part of the shutdown list , according to the reports .
however , this contradicts fiat ceo sergio marchionne 's denial earlier this week that any of opel 's four german plans would be closed . job cuts " inevitable " - no matter who takes over bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : opel employees ' fate is still very much up in the air armin schild , a member of opel 's supervisory board , said job cuts would be inevitable in a takeover of opel .
job cut plans are one of the key criteria on which the suitability of potential investors in opel will be judged , according to a checklist drawn up by vice-chancellor frank-walter steinmeier -lrb- spd -rrb- , who will is to challenge chancellor angela merkel -lrb- cdu -rrb- in september 's federal election .
schild , who represents labor union ig metall on the board , also said the austrian-canadian car parts maker magna has so far presented a more concrete takeover proposal .
media reports have said that possible partners for magna include russian carmaker gaz as well as russia 's sberbank .
gaz and its owner , billionaire oleg deripaska , have repeatedly denied interest .
general motors teeters on bridge of bankruptcy meanwhile , opel 's parent company , general motors , has announced a quarterly net loss of six billion dollars -lrb- 4.5 billion euros -rrb- - its eighth quarterly loss in a row .
it also announced a loss of 2 billion dollars -lrb- 1.5 billion euros -rrb- from its european operations .
revenue dropped by 47 percent , to 22.4 billion dollars .
gm , the largest us carmaker , is currently operating under a us federal bail-out plan .
it is threatened with bankruptcy , as has already happened to its competitor , chrysler .
us president barack obama has given gm an end-of-may deadline for a new restructuring plan to be implemented . cg / dpa , reuters / ap / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de fiat denies it plans to cut 18,000 jobs , close factories fiat has denied a german news report that it plans to cut 18,000 jobs and close 10 factories in europe , should it succeed in its bid to take over gm 's european operations .
-lrb- 06.05.2009 -rrb- fiat boss commits to opel plants in germany the head of italian automaker fiat , sergio marchionne , has said in an interview he wants to keep open all four opel plants in germany after a possible takeover of the struggling carmaker .
-lrb- 05.05.2009 -rrb- magna meets with guttenberg over possible opel deal representatives from the canadian-austrian car parts supplier have presented germany 's economics minister with a draft plan for bailing out opel .
but the troubled carmaker remains a bone of contention .
-lrb- 28.04.2009 -rrb- 9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live im focus - dokumentationen und reportagen we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live spectrum more efficient nuclear power , qr code coins , a chemicals in space and the future of nasa 's employees listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
digital street art artists in berlin reinvent graffiti by projecting light onto buildings using computer systems .
watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
steinmeier urges israeli counterpart to accept two-state plan -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 30.03.2011 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de israel -pipe- 07.05.2009 steinmeier urges israeli counterpart to accept two-state plan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lieberman has been making his first official visit to berlin while in berlin , israel 's foreign minister has left a cloud over the mideast peace process , calling it a waste of money . israeli foreign minister avigdor lieberman has left german parliamentarians pessimistic about the future of the middle east peace process .
in berlin , the last stop of his four-day european tour , the right-wing minister refused to commit to a two-state solution for israel and the palestinian territories .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lieberman -lrb- right -rrb- with ruprecht polenz , chairman of the foreign affairs committee during talks with members of the german parliamentary foreign affairs committee lieberman said the peace process had been little more than a waste of money .
he also brought up iran , saying the country was a major threat .
later in the day , lieberman paid his respects at berlin 's holocaust memorial , laying a wreath at the 19,000-square-meter monument in the center of berlin .
lieberman later held talks with german interior minister wolfgang schaeuble , followed by dinner with his german counterpart frank-walter steinmeier .
germany 's top diplomat urged the controversial israeli foreign minister to adopt a two-state plan as the basis for peace in the middle east and the " sole path to peace and security . "
steinmeier emphasized that the german government expected the new israeli administration under prime minister benjamin netanyahu would abide with previous peace commitments .
the german minister said it was important to stregthen moderate forces in the region and actively involve them in the peace process .
with regard to the situation in the gaza strip , steinmeier said it was imperative that palestinians had access to aid supplies .
the israeli foreign minister , who heads a nationalist party in prime minister benjamin netanyahu 's coalition , caused a stir on his first day in office , when he announced that israel was no longer bound by the so-called annapolis peace process , which formed the basis of the israeli-palestinian peace talks in 2008 .
lieberman 's european visit - which has included meetings in rome , paris and european union talks in prague - was mostly conducted out of the media eye .
in berlin , no joint press conference or photo call was scheduled for his meeting with steinmeier .
this echoed lieberman 's reception in france , where foreign minister bernard kouchner chose not to hold a joint press conference as had been customary when lieberman 's predecessor tzipi livni came to paris . ch / pfd / nrt , rtr / dpa / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de merkel says " no alternative " to two-state solution in middle east german chancellor angela merkel has said there is no alternative to a two-state solution to the mideast crisis following talks in berlin on wednesday with jordan 's king abdullah ii .
-lrb- 06.05.2009 -rrb- netanyahu demands that palestinians recognize israel as jewish state israeli prime minister benjamin netanyahu has demanded palestinians recognize israel as a jewish state .
the call was made during his meeting with the visiting us special envoy to the middle east , george mitchell .
-lrb- 16.04.2009 -rrb- opinion : labour decision to join likud harms hopes for peace israeli labour party head ehud barack 's decision to take part in a government led by hardliner benjamin netanyahu is a disservice to the labour party and , more importantly , to hopes for peace , writes dw 's peter philipp .
-lrb- 25.03.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live im focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live spectrum listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
steinmeier urges israeli counterpart to accept two-state plan -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.10.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de israel -pipe- 07.05.2009 steinmeier urges israeli counterpart to accept two-state plan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lieberman has been making his first official visit to berlin while in berlin , israel 's foreign minister has left a cloud over the mideast peace process , calling it a waste of money . israeli foreign minister avigdor lieberman has left german parliamentarians pessimistic about the future of the middle east peace process .
in berlin , the last stop of his four-day european tour , the right-wing minister refused to commit to a two-state solution for israel and the palestinian territories .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lieberman -lrb- right -rrb- with ruprecht polenz , chairman of the foreign affairs committee during talks with members of the german parliamentary foreign affairs committee lieberman said the peace process had been little more than a waste of money .
he also brought up iran , saying the country was a major threat .
later in the day , lieberman paid his respects at berlin 's holocaust memorial , laying a wreath at the 19,000-square-meter monument in the center of berlin .
lieberman later held talks with german interior minister wolfgang schaeuble , followed by dinner with his german counterpart frank-walter steinmeier .
germany 's top diplomat urged the controversial israeli foreign minister to adopt a two-state plan as the basis for peace in the middle east and the " sole path to peace and security . "
steinmeier emphasized that the german government expected the new israeli administration under prime minister benjamin netanyahu would abide with previous peace commitments .
the german minister said it was important to stregthen moderate forces in the region and actively involve them in the peace process .
with regard to the situation in the gaza strip , steinmeier said it was imperative that palestinians had access to aid supplies .
the israeli foreign minister , who heads a nationalist party in prime minister benjamin netanyahu 's coalition , caused a stir on his first day in office , when he announced that israel was no longer bound by the so-called annapolis peace process , which formed the basis of the israeli-palestinian peace talks in 2008 .
lieberman 's european visit - which has included meetings in rome , paris and european union talks in prague - was mostly conducted out of the media eye .
in berlin , no joint press conference or photo call was scheduled for his meeting with steinmeier .
this echoed lieberman 's reception in france , where foreign minister bernard kouchner chose not to hold a joint press conference as had been customary when lieberman 's predecessor tzipi livni came to paris . ch / pfd / nrt , rtr / dpa / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de merkel says " no alternative " to two-state solution in middle east german chancellor angela merkel has said there is no alternative to a two-state solution to the mideast crisis following talks in berlin on wednesday with jordan 's king abdullah ii .
-lrb- 06.05.2009 -rrb- netanyahu demands that palestinians recognize israel as jewish state israeli prime minister benjamin netanyahu has demanded palestinians recognize israel as a jewish state .
the call was made during his meeting with the visiting us special envoy to the middle east , george mitchell .
-lrb- 16.04.2009 -rrb- opinion : labour decision to join likud harms hopes for peace israeli labour party head ehud barack 's decision to take part in a government led by hardliner benjamin netanyahu is a disservice to the labour party and , more importantly , to hopes for peace , writes dw 's peter philipp .
-lrb- 25.03.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live hits in germany pop from the german top 100 listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
steinmeier urges israeli counterpart to accept two-state plan -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.12.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de israel -pipe- 07.05.2009 steinmeier urges israeli counterpart to accept two-state plan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lieberman has been making his first official visit to berlin while in berlin , israel 's foreign minister has left a cloud over the mideast peace process , calling it a waste of money . israeli foreign minister avigdor lieberman has left german parliamentarians pessimistic about the future of the middle east peace process .
in berlin , the last stop of his four-day european tour , the right-wing minister refused to commit to a two-state solution for israel and the palestinian territories .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lieberman -lrb- right -rrb- with ruprecht polenz , chairman of the foreign affairs committee during talks with members of the german parliamentary foreign affairs committee lieberman said the peace process had been little more than a waste of money .
he also brought up iran , saying the country was a major threat .
later in the day , lieberman paid his respects at berlin 's holocaust memorial , laying a wreath at the 19,000-square-meter monument in the center of berlin .
lieberman later held talks with german interior minister wolfgang schaeuble , followed by dinner with his german counterpart frank-walter steinmeier .
germany 's top diplomat urged the controversial israeli foreign minister to adopt a two-state plan as the basis for peace in the middle east and the " sole path to peace and security . "
steinmeier emphasized that the german government expected the new israeli administration under prime minister benjamin netanyahu would abide with previous peace commitments .
the german minister said it was important to stregthen moderate forces in the region and actively involve them in the peace process .
with regard to the situation in the gaza strip , steinmeier said it was imperative that palestinians had access to aid supplies .
the israeli foreign minister , who heads a nationalist party in prime minister benjamin netanyahu 's coalition , caused a stir on his first day in office , when he announced that israel was no longer bound by the so-called annapolis peace process , which formed the basis of the israeli-palestinian peace talks in 2008 .
lieberman 's european visit - which has included meetings in rome , paris and european union talks in prague - was mostly conducted out of the media eye .
in berlin , no joint press conference or photo call was scheduled for his meeting with steinmeier .
this echoed lieberman 's reception in france , where foreign minister bernard kouchner chose not to hold a joint press conference as had been customary when lieberman 's predecessor tzipi livni came to paris . ch / pfd / nrt , rtr / dpa / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de merkel says " no alternative " to two-state solution in middle east german chancellor angela merkel has said there is no alternative to a two-state solution to the mideast crisis following talks in berlin on wednesday with jordan 's king abdullah ii .
-lrb- 06.05.2009 -rrb- netanyahu demands that palestinians recognize israel as jewish state israeli prime minister benjamin netanyahu has demanded palestinians recognize israel as a jewish state .
the call was made during his meeting with the visiting us special envoy to the middle east , george mitchell .
-lrb- 16.04.2009 -rrb- opinion : labour decision to join likud harms hopes for peace israeli labour party head ehud barack 's decision to take part in a government led by hardliner benjamin netanyahu is a disservice to the labour party and , more importantly , to hopes for peace , writes dw 's peter philipp .
-lrb- 25.03.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live arts.21 we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inside europe listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
travel passau is called the three river city , but it is just as famous for its baroque splendor .
passau - baroque facades and vibrant arts watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
steinmeier urges israeli counterpart to accept two-state plan -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 16.09.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de israel -pipe- 07.05.2009 steinmeier urges israeli counterpart to accept two-state plan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lieberman has been making his first official visit to berlin while in berlin , israel 's foreign minister has left a cloud over the mideast peace process , calling it a waste of money . israeli foreign minister avigdor lieberman has left german parliamentarians pessimistic about the future of the middle east peace process .
in berlin , the last stop of his four-day european tour , the right-wing minister refused to commit to a two-state solution for israel and the palestinian territories .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lieberman -lrb- right -rrb- with ruprecht polenz , chairman of the foreign affairs committee during talks with members of the german parliamentary foreign affairs committee lieberman said the peace process had been little more than a waste of money .
he also brought up iran , saying the country was a major threat .
later in the day , lieberman paid his respects at berlin 's holocaust memorial , laying a wreath at the 19,000-square-meter monument in the center of berlin .
lieberman later held talks with german interior minister wolfgang schaeuble , followed by dinner with his german counterpart frank-walter steinmeier .
germany 's top diplomat urged the controversial israeli foreign minister to adopt a two-state plan as the basis for peace in the middle east and the " sole path to peace and security . "
steinmeier emphasized that the german government expected the new israeli administration under prime minister benjamin netanyahu would abide with previous peace commitments .
the german minister said it was important to stregthen moderate forces in the region and actively involve them in the peace process .
with regard to the situation in the gaza strip , steinmeier said it was imperative that palestinians had access to aid supplies .
the israeli foreign minister , who heads a nationalist party in prime minister benjamin netanyahu 's coalition , caused a stir on his first day in office , when he announced that israel was no longer bound by the so-called annapolis peace process , which formed the basis of the israeli-palestinian peace talks in 2008 .
lieberman 's european visit - which has included meetings in rome , paris and european union talks in prague - was mostly conducted out of the media eye .
in berlin , no joint press conference or photo call was scheduled for his meeting with steinmeier .
this echoed lieberman 's reception in france , where foreign minister bernard kouchner chose not to hold a joint press conference as had been customary when lieberman 's predecessor tzipi livni came to paris . ch / pfd / nrt , rtr / dpa / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de merkel says " no alternative " to two-state solution in middle east german chancellor angela merkel has said there is no alternative to a two-state solution to the mideast crisis following talks in berlin on wednesday with jordan 's king abdullah ii .
-lrb- 06.05.2009 -rrb- netanyahu demands that palestinians recognize israel as jewish state israeli prime minister benjamin netanyahu has demanded palestinians recognize israel as a jewish state .
the call was made during his meeting with the visiting us special envoy to the middle east , george mitchell .
-lrb- 16.04.2009 -rrb- opinion : labour decision to join likud harms hopes for peace israeli labour party head ehud barack 's decision to take part in a government led by hardliner benjamin netanyahu is a disservice to the labour party and , more importantly , to hopes for peace , writes dw 's peter philipp .
-lrb- 25.03.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live im focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live arts on the air listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
berlin holds 47 percent of troubled hypo real estate -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.12.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de economy -pipe- 07.05.2009 berlin holds 47 percent of troubled hypo real estate großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : berlin 's buy up of shares has given the green light to nationalization the german government has announced it now holds more than 47 percent of the mortgage lender , hypo real estate , following its decision to take over the troubled lender . the government 's financial market stabilization fund , soffin , now holds a 47.31 percent share of munich-based hre , after the government 's bid to buy up shareholders ' stock .
the government 's offer , worth 290 million euros -lrb- $ 386 million -rrb- , expired at midnight monday .
each share had a cash offer of 1.39 euros .
in berlin , finance minister peer steinbrueck said he was pleased with the results of the share buy offer .
" this now means the government can continue with the planned takeover of hre shares , according to stock corporation law , " he said .
" only with the complete government takeover can hre 's survival be ensured and the taxpayers ' interests protected , " steinbrueck added . despite the fact that berlin failed to come up with 50 percent of shares , steinbrueck said that soffin could complete a takeover of the firm through means made available by german shareholder law .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : soffin 's rehm says hypo needs to be rescued to ensure the stabilty of germany 's economy hannes rehm , chairman of the soffin management committee , is optimistic that will happen : " we will consistently pursue our efforts to stabilize hre , " he said .
" the bank is of systemic relevance and must be rescued in order to ensure stability of the financial markets and the german economy .
i expect the envisaged capital increase to be approved by the extraordinary general meeting , " he added .
a capital increase is a type of equity issuance in which new stocks are offered for sale .
hre shareholders have been invited to the extraordinary general meeting on june 2 .
at the meeting , soffin will subscribe all of the new shares , excluding subscription rights of the shareholders .
this will give it a majority of 90 percent , as well as voting rights .
that will pave the way for a takeover of the shares held by the remaining minority shareholders - through a so-called " squeeze-out " procedure .
soffin does not expect the price to exceed the original offer price of 1.39 euros per share .
us private equity firm jc flowers & co , which rejects the government 's plans , still owns about 14 percent of hre . cg / rm , reuters / dp / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de nationalization is on the horizon for beleagered hypo real estate bank the german government has invested more than 100 billion euros in ailing mortgage lender hypo real estate bank to ensure it does n't collapse - now it wants total control .
-lrb- 05.05.2009 -rrb- hre to post more losses , takeover deadline looms as the german government and a us investment group battle over shares in the hypo real estate bank , it seems the struggling lender is still losing money .
-lrb- 04.05.2009 -rrb- flowers rejects government takeover bid for hre a major legal battle for the ownership of german bank hypo real estate is looming after a major investor rejected a bid from the german government .
-lrb- 30.04.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live radio d listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
travel passau is called the three river city , but it is just as famous for its baroque splendor .
passau - baroque facades and vibrant arts watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
berlin holds 47 percent of troubled hypo real estate -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 11.09.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de economy -pipe- 07.05.2009 berlin holds 47 percent of troubled hypo real estate großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : berlin 's buy up of shares has given the green light to nationalization the german government has announced it now holds more than 47 percent of the mortgage lender , hypo real estate , following its decision to take over the troubled lender . the government 's financial market stabilization fund , soffin , now holds a 47.31 percent share of munich-based hre , after the government 's bid to buy up shareholders ' stock .
the government 's offer , worth 290 million euros -lrb- $ 386 million -rrb- , expired at midnight monday .
each share had a cash offer of 1.39 euros .
in berlin , finance minister peer steinbrueck said he was pleased with the results of the share buy offer .
" this now means the government can continue with the planned takeover of hre shares , according to stock corporation law , " he said .
" only with the complete government takeover can hre 's survival be ensured and the taxpayers ' interests protected , " steinbrueck added . despite the fact that berlin failed to come up with 50 percent of shares , steinbrueck said that soffin could complete a takeover of the firm through means made available by german shareholder law .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : soffin 's rehm says hypo needs to be rescued to ensure the stabilty of germany 's economy hannes rehm , chairman of the soffin management committee , is optimistic that will happen : " we will consistently pursue our efforts to stabilize hre , " he said .
" the bank is of systemic relevance and must be rescued in order to ensure stability of the financial markets and the german economy .
i expect the envisaged capital increase to be approved by the extraordinary general meeting , " he added .
a capital increase is a type of equity issuance in which new stocks are offered for sale .
hre shareholders have been invited to the extraordinary general meeting on june 2 .
at the meeting , soffin will subscribe all of the new shares , excluding subscription rights of the shareholders .
this will give it a majority of 90 percent , as well as voting rights .
that will pave the way for a takeover of the shares held by the remaining minority shareholders - through a so-called " squeeze-out " procedure .
soffin does not expect the price to exceed the original offer price of 1.39 euros per share .
us private equity firm jc flowers & co , which rejects the government 's plans , still owns about 14 percent of hre . cg / rm , reuters / dp / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de nationalization is on the horizon for beleagered hypo real estate bank the german government has invested more than 100 billion euros in ailing mortgage lender hypo real estate bank to ensure it does n't collapse - now it wants total control .
-lrb- 05.05.2009 -rrb- hre to post more losses , takeover deadline looms as the german government and a us investment group battle over shares in the hypo real estate bank , it seems the struggling lender is still losing money .
-lrb- 04.05.2009 -rrb- flowers rejects government takeover bid for hre a major legal battle for the ownership of german bank hypo real estate is looming after a major investor rejected a bid from the german government .
-lrb- 30.04.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live hits in germany pop from the german top 100 listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
berlin holds 47 percent of troubled hypo real estate -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 14.01.2011 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de economy -pipe- 07.05.2009 berlin holds 47 percent of troubled hypo real estate großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : berlin 's buy up of shares has given the green light to nationalization the german government has announced it now holds more than 47 percent of the mortgage lender , hypo real estate , following its decision to take over the troubled lender . the government 's financial market stabilization fund , soffin , now holds a 47.31 percent share of munich-based hre , after the government 's bid to buy up shareholders ' stock .
the government 's offer , worth 290 million euros -lrb- $ 386 million -rrb- , expired at midnight monday .
each share had a cash offer of 1.39 euros .
in berlin , finance minister peer steinbrueck said he was pleased with the results of the share buy offer .
" this now means the government can continue with the planned takeover of hre shares , according to stock corporation law , " he said .
" only with the complete government takeover can hre 's survival be ensured and the taxpayers ' interests protected , " steinbrueck added . despite the fact that berlin failed to come up with 50 percent of shares , steinbrueck said that soffin could complete a takeover of the firm through means made available by german shareholder law .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : soffin 's rehm says hypo needs to be rescued to ensure the stabilty of germany 's economy hannes rehm , chairman of the soffin management committee , is optimistic that will happen : " we will consistently pursue our efforts to stabilize hre , " he said .
" the bank is of systemic relevance and must be rescued in order to ensure stability of the financial markets and the german economy .
i expect the envisaged capital increase to be approved by the extraordinary general meeting , " he added .
a capital increase is a type of equity issuance in which new stocks are offered for sale .
hre shareholders have been invited to the extraordinary general meeting on june 2 .
at the meeting , soffin will subscribe all of the new shares , excluding subscription rights of the shareholders .
this will give it a majority of 90 percent , as well as voting rights .
that will pave the way for a takeover of the shares held by the remaining minority shareholders - through a so-called " squeeze-out " procedure .
soffin does not expect the price to exceed the original offer price of 1.39 euros per share .
us private equity firm jc flowers & co , which rejects the government 's plans , still owns about 14 percent of hre . cg / rm , reuters / dp / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de nationalization is on the horizon for beleagered hypo real estate bank the german government has invested more than 100 billion euros in ailing mortgage lender hypo real estate bank to ensure it does n't collapse - now it wants total control .
-lrb- 05.05.2009 -rrb- hre to post more losses , takeover deadline looms as the german government and a us investment group battle over shares in the hypo real estate bank , it seems the struggling lender is still losing money .
-lrb- 04.05.2009 -rrb- flowers rejects government takeover bid for hre a major legal battle for the ownership of german bank hypo real estate is looming after a major investor rejected a bid from the german government .
-lrb- 30.04.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live in focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inside europe listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
european central bank cuts rates to record low -pipe- nrs-import -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de economy -pipe- 07.05.2009 european central bank cuts rates to record low großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : jean-claude trichet , the ecb president .
the european central bank has cut its main interest rate to a record low one percent .
the cut was the fourth this year by the frankfurt-based bank , and it may not be the last . ecb president jean-claude trichet announced the cut on thursday , saying the bank was planning to shore up financial market confidence and boost liquidity by extending the period over which the ecb lends funds to banks at fixed rates from 6 months to 12 months and purchasing bonds .
the quarter point rate cut was the fourth this year by the frankfurt-based bank , which sets monetary policy for countries that share the euro currency .
trichet said that inflationary pressures had diminished in the economic downturn , but that the euro-zone economy appeared to be stabilising .
" the latest economic data suggest tentative signs of a stabilisation at very low levels after a first quarter which was significantly weaker than expected , " he told the news conference after the bank 's decision .
" the world economy including the eurozone is still undergoing a severe downturn with the prospect of both external and domestic demand remaining very weak over 2009 before gradually recovering in the course of 2010 , " trichet said .
he also said inflation expectations were consistent with keeping it in line with the bank 's target of price growth at or just below 2 percent .
eurozone inflation is at a record low of 0.6 percent and although some economic data are showing signs of stabilisation , the european commission this week forecast the eurozone 's economy would shrink by 4.0 percent this year .
the ecb has cut rates from 4.25 percent since last october .
trichet indicated that thursday 's rate cut was not necessarily the last . ch / pfd , rtr / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de eu agrees to boost aid to struggling member countries the european union has agreed to double the amount of a bailout fund to 50 billion euros -lrb- $ 67 billion -rrb- .
the fund was created to provide emergency loans to eastern eu countries hit hard by the financial crisis .
-lrb- 05.05.2009 -rrb- japanese pm lauds swift german reaction to financial crisis japanese prime minister taro aso was in berlin on tuesday as part of a three-day trip to europe .
the global economic downturn was on aso 's mind as he met with german chancellor angela merkel .
-lrb- 05.05.2009 -rrb- spring employment boost fails to materialize a much-hoped-for springtime jobs boost has failed to materialize , official german figures show .
-lrb- 30.04.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
european central bank cuts rates to record low -pipe- nrs-import -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 28.03.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de economy -pipe- 07.05.2009 european central bank cuts rates to record low großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : jean-claude trichet , the ecb president .
the european central bank has cut its main interest rate to a record low one percent .
the cut was the fourth this year by the frankfurt-based bank , and it may not be the last . ecb president jean-claude trichet announced the cut on thursday , saying the bank was planning to shore up financial market confidence and boost liquidity by extending the period over which the ecb lends funds to banks at fixed rates from 6 months to 12 months and purchasing bonds .
the quarter point rate cut was the fourth this year by the frankfurt-based bank , which sets monetary policy for countries that share the euro currency .
trichet said that inflationary pressures had diminished in the economic downturn , but that the euro-zone economy appeared to be stabilising .
" the latest economic data suggest tentative signs of a stabilisation at very low levels after a first quarter which was significantly weaker than expected , " he told the news conference after the bank 's decision .
" the world economy including the eurozone is still undergoing a severe downturn with the prospect of both external and domestic demand remaining very weak over 2009 before gradually recovering in the course of 2010 , " trichet said .
he also said inflation expectations were consistent with keeping it in line with the bank 's target of price growth at or just below 2 percent .
eurozone inflation is at a record low of 0.6 percent and although some economic data are showing signs of stabilisation , the european commission this week forecast the eurozone 's economy would shrink by 4.0 percent this year .
the ecb has cut rates from 4.25 percent since last october .
trichet indicated that thursday 's rate cut was not necessarily the last . ch / pfd , rtr / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de eu agrees to boost aid to struggling member countries the european union has agreed to double the amount of a bailout fund to 50 billion euros -lrb- $ 67 billion -rrb- .
the fund was created to provide emergency loans to eastern eu countries hit hard by the financial crisis .
-lrb- 05.05.2009 -rrb- japanese pm lauds swift german reaction to financial crisis japanese prime minister taro aso was in berlin on tuesday as part of a three-day trip to europe .
the global economic downturn was on aso 's mind as he met with german chancellor angela merkel .
-lrb- 05.05.2009 -rrb- spring employment boost fails to materialize a much-hoped-for springtime jobs boost has failed to materialize , official german figures show .
-lrb- 30.04.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
eu approves commerzbank bailout -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de banking -pipe- 07.05.2009 eu approves commerzbank bailout großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : commerzbank was the first german bank to tap into the government 's rescue fund brussels has approved an 18-billion-euro government bailout of germany ’ s second largest bank .
the eu had requested assurances that the money will not give the bank an unfair edge over competitors . part of the money is already on commerzbank 's balance sheets after berlin injected 8 billion euros -lrb- $ 10.6 billion -rrb- into the bank in december last year .
now , commerzbank stands to receive another 10 billion euros of fresh capital .
berlin however needed the approval of brussels and on thursday the eu commission gave its green light .
" on the basis of the notified plans , the commission is satisfied that commerzbank 's long term viability has been demonstrated , and that the aid is kept to the minimum and will not lead to undue distortions of competition .
it has therefore declared the aid compatible , " the eu executive said in a statement .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : frankfurt 's skyline of bank headquarters was rocked by the global finacial crisis but the government aid will be tied to strict restructuring conditions .
commerzbank will have to sell its eurohypo unit , a major european player in the real estate business .
in addition , the bank will be banned for three years from buying other financial institutes that it competes with .
commerzbank , which is germany 's second largest private bank with a balance sheet total of 1,100 billion euros of capital , ran into financial trouble as a result of the global credit crunch .
berlin has welcomed the decision from brussels .
a government spokeswoman said it was " an important step to strengthen the trust in the government 's bailout fund . "
in the wake of the global financial crisis , germany has created a 470-billion-euro rescue fund to support the struggling sector . ai / rm , dpa / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de conditions for commerzbank aid package appear to be set the european commission has set conditions for commerzbank to get an 18 billion euros -lrb- $ 23 billion -rrb- rescue package from the german government .
the bank is expected to shed its eurohypo unit .
-lrb- 22.04.2009 -rrb- german government takes large stake in commerzbank the german government has agreed to take a 25-percent share in commerzbank .
the move signals the first time the government has taken a stake in a major private bank and comes as commerzbank is set to buy dresdner bank .
-lrb- 09.01.2009 -rrb- merkel seeks to make bank bailouts more attractive germany 's rescue package for struggling banks may be in for a revamp to make it more appealing to financial institutions that have so far rejected it , german media reported tuesday .
-lrb- 02.12.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live arts on the air listen live stock exchange today in history 1953 : the " doctors � plot " rattles moscow © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
european central bank cuts rates to record low -pipe- nrs-import -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de economy -pipe- 07.05.2009 european central bank cuts rates to record low großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : jean-claude trichet , the ecb president .
the european central bank has cut its main interest rate to a record low one percent .
the cut was the fourth this year by the frankfurt-based bank , and it may not be the last . ecb president jean-claude trichet announced the cut on thursday , saying the bank was planning to shore up financial market confidence and boost liquidity by extending the period over which the ecb lends funds to banks at fixed rates from 6 months to 12 months and purchasing bonds .
the quarter point rate cut was the fourth this year by the frankfurt-based bank , which sets monetary policy for countries that share the euro currency .
trichet said that inflationary pressures had diminished in the economic downturn , but that the euro-zone economy appeared to be stabilising .
" the latest economic data suggest tentative signs of a stabilisation at very low levels after a first quarter which was significantly weaker than expected , " he told the news conference after the bank 's decision .
" the world economy including the eurozone is still undergoing a severe downturn with the prospect of both external and domestic demand remaining very weak over 2009 before gradually recovering in the course of 2010 , " trichet said .
he also said inflation expectations were consistent with keeping it in line with the bank 's target of price growth at or just below 2 percent .
eurozone inflation is at a record low of 0.6 percent and although some economic data are showing signs of stabilisation , the european commission this week forecast the eurozone 's economy would shrink by 4.0 percent this year .
the ecb has cut rates from 4.25 percent since last october .
trichet indicated that thursday 's rate cut was not necessarily the last . ch / pfd , rtr / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de eu agrees to boost aid to struggling member countries the european union has agreed to double the amount of a bailout fund to 50 billion euros -lrb- $ 67 billion -rrb- .
the fund was created to provide emergency loans to eastern eu countries hit hard by the financial crisis .
-lrb- 05.05.2009 -rrb- japanese pm lauds swift german reaction to financial crisis japanese prime minister taro aso was in berlin on tuesday as part of a three-day trip to europe .
the global economic downturn was on aso 's mind as he met with german chancellor angela merkel .
-lrb- 05.05.2009 -rrb- spring employment boost fails to materialize a much-hoped-for springtime jobs boost has failed to materialize , official german figures show .
-lrb- 30.04.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
eu approves commerzbank bailout -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 17.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de banking -pipe- 07.05.2009 eu approves commerzbank bailout großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : commerzbank was the first german bank to tap into the government 's rescue fund brussels has approved an 18-billion-euro government bailout of germany ’ s second largest bank .
the eu had requested assurances that the money will not give the bank an unfair edge over competitors . part of the money is already on commerzbank 's balance sheets after berlin injected 8 billion euros -lrb- $ 10.6 billion -rrb- into the bank in december last year .
now , commerzbank stands to receive another 10 billion euros of fresh capital .
berlin however needed the approval of brussels and on thursday the eu commission gave its green light .
" on the basis of the notified plans , the commission is satisfied that commerzbank 's long term viability has been demonstrated , and that the aid is kept to the minimum and will not lead to undue distortions of competition .
it has therefore declared the aid compatible , " the eu executive said in a statement .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : frankfurt 's skyline of bank headquarters was rocked by the global finacial crisis but the government aid will be tied to strict restructuring conditions .
commerzbank will have to sell its eurohypo unit , a major european player in the real estate business .
in addition , the bank will be banned for three years from buying other financial institutes that it competes with .
commerzbank , which is germany 's second largest private bank with a balance sheet total of 1,100 billion euros of capital , ran into financial trouble as a result of the global credit crunch .
berlin has welcomed the decision from brussels .
a government spokeswoman said it was " an important step to strengthen the trust in the government 's bailout fund . "
in the wake of the global financial crisis , germany has created a 470-billion-euro rescue fund to support the struggling sector . ai / rm , dpa / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de conditions for commerzbank aid package appear to be set the european commission has set conditions for commerzbank to get an 18 billion euros -lrb- $ 23 billion -rrb- rescue package from the german government .
the bank is expected to shed its eurohypo unit .
-lrb- 22.04.2009 -rrb- german government takes large stake in commerzbank the german government has agreed to take a 25-percent share in commerzbank .
the move signals the first time the government has taken a stake in a major private bank and comes as commerzbank is set to buy dresdner bank .
-lrb- 09.01.2009 -rrb- merkel seeks to make bank bailouts more attractive germany 's rescue package for struggling banks may be in for a revamp to make it more appealing to financial institutions that have so far rejected it , german media reported tuesday .
-lrb- 02.12.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live stock exchange today in history 1958 : overdraft facility for everyone © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
eu approves commerzbank bailout -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de banking -pipe- 07.05.2009 eu approves commerzbank bailout großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : commerzbank was the first german bank to tap into the government 's rescue fund brussels has approved an 18-billion-euro government bailout of germany ’ s second largest bank .
the eu had requested assurances that the money will not give the bank an unfair edge over competitors . part of the money is already on commerzbank 's balance sheets after berlin injected 8 billion euros -lrb- $ 10.6 billion -rrb- into the bank in december last year .
now , commerzbank stands to receive another 10 billion euros of fresh capital .
berlin however needed the approval of brussels and on thursday the eu commission gave its green light .
" on the basis of the notified plans , the commission is satisfied that commerzbank 's long term viability has been demonstrated , and that the aid is kept to the minimum and will not lead to undue distortions of competition .
it has therefore declared the aid compatible , " the eu executive said in a statement .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : frankfurt 's skyline of bank headquarters was rocked by the global finacial crisis but the government aid will be tied to strict restructuring conditions .
commerzbank will have to sell its eurohypo unit , a major european player in the real estate business .
in addition , the bank will be banned for three years from buying other financial institutes that it competes with .
commerzbank , which is germany 's second largest private bank with a balance sheet total of 1,100 billion euros of capital , ran into financial trouble as a result of the global credit crunch .
berlin has welcomed the decision from brussels .
a government spokeswoman said it was " an important step to strengthen the trust in the government 's bailout fund . "
in the wake of the global financial crisis , germany has created a 470-billion-euro rescue fund to support the struggling sector . ai / rm , dpa / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de conditions for commerzbank aid package appear to be set the european commission has set conditions for commerzbank to get an 18 billion euros -lrb- $ 23 billion -rrb- rescue package from the german government .
the bank is expected to shed its eurohypo unit .
-lrb- 22.04.2009 -rrb- german government takes large stake in commerzbank the german government has agreed to take a 25-percent share in commerzbank .
the move signals the first time the government has taken a stake in a major private bank and comes as commerzbank is set to buy dresdner bank .
-lrb- 09.01.2009 -rrb- merkel seeks to make bank bailouts more attractive germany 's rescue package for struggling banks may be in for a revamp to make it more appealing to financial institutions that have so far rejected it , german media reported tuesday .
-lrb- 02.12.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live concert hour ard international music competition , part one listen live stock exchange today in history 1901 : telegraphy across the atlantic ocean © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
eu approves commerzbank bailout -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 28.03.2011 home news germany europe world asia business 125 years automobile science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de banking -pipe- 07.05.2009 eu approves commerzbank bailout großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : commerzbank was the first german bank to tap into the government 's rescue fund brussels has approved an 18-billion-euro government bailout of germany ’ s second largest bank .
the eu had requested assurances that the money will not give the bank an unfair edge over competitors . part of the money is already on commerzbank 's balance sheets after berlin injected 8 billion euros -lrb- $ 10.6 billion -rrb- into the bank in december last year .
now , commerzbank stands to receive another 10 billion euros of fresh capital .
berlin however needed the approval of brussels and on thursday the eu commission gave its green light .
" on the basis of the notified plans , the commission is satisfied that commerzbank 's long term viability has been demonstrated , and that the aid is kept to the minimum and will not lead to undue distortions of competition .
it has therefore declared the aid compatible , " the eu executive said in a statement .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : frankfurt 's skyline of bank headquarters was rocked by the global finacial crisis but the government aid will be tied to strict restructuring conditions .
commerzbank will have to sell its eurohypo unit , a major european player in the real estate business .
in addition , the bank will be banned for three years from buying other financial institutes that it competes with .
commerzbank , which is germany 's second largest private bank with a balance sheet total of 1,100 billion euros of capital , ran into financial trouble as a result of the global credit crunch .
berlin has welcomed the decision from brussels .
a government spokeswoman said it was " an important step to strengthen the trust in the government 's bailout fund . "
in the wake of the global financial crisis , germany has created a 470-billion-euro rescue fund to support the struggling sector . ai / rm , dpa / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de conditions for commerzbank aid package appear to be set the european commission has set conditions for commerzbank to get an 18 billion euros -lrb- $ 23 billion -rrb- rescue package from the german government .
the bank is expected to shed its eurohypo unit .
-lrb- 22.04.2009 -rrb- german government takes large stake in commerzbank the german government has agreed to take a 25-percent share in commerzbank .
the move signals the first time the government has taken a stake in a major private bank and comes as commerzbank is set to buy dresdner bank .
-lrb- 09.01.2009 -rrb- merkel seeks to make bank bailouts more attractive germany 's rescue package for struggling banks may be in for a revamp to make it more appealing to financial institutions that have so far rejected it , german media reported tuesday .
-lrb- 02.12.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week money , power and heavy metal : listen to the latest european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-tv europe live im focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live in-box -lsb- in-box -rsb- feedback from around the world listen live banking get an inside look at some of germany 's more unusual companies .
olkiluoto 3 - finland builds the world 's biggest nuclear power plant nuclear power plants : after a shutdown peter paffhausen : from nuclear manager to green energy advocate heightened fears : geiger counters fly off the shelves stock exchange today in history 1842 : founding of the vienna philharmonic orchestra © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
eu approves commerzbank bailout -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business 125 years automobile science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de banking -pipe- 07.05.2009 eu approves commerzbank bailout großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : commerzbank was the first german bank to tap into the government 's rescue fund brussels has approved an 18-billion-euro government bailout of germany ’ s second largest bank .
the eu had requested assurances that the money will not give the bank an unfair edge over competitors . part of the money is already on commerzbank 's balance sheets after berlin injected 8 billion euros -lrb- $ 10.6 billion -rrb- into the bank in december last year .
now , commerzbank stands to receive another 10 billion euros of fresh capital .
berlin however needed the approval of brussels and on thursday the eu commission gave its green light .
" on the basis of the notified plans , the commission is satisfied that commerzbank 's long term viability has been demonstrated , and that the aid is kept to the minimum and will not lead to undue distortions of competition .
it has therefore declared the aid compatible , " the eu executive said in a statement .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : frankfurt 's skyline of bank headquarters was rocked by the global finacial crisis but the government aid will be tied to strict restructuring conditions .
commerzbank will have to sell its eurohypo unit , a major european player in the real estate business .
in addition , the bank will be banned for three years from buying other financial institutes that it competes with .
commerzbank , which is germany 's second largest private bank with a balance sheet total of 1,100 billion euros of capital , ran into financial trouble as a result of the global credit crunch .
berlin has welcomed the decision from brussels .
a government spokeswoman said it was " an important step to strengthen the trust in the government 's bailout fund . "
in the wake of the global financial crisis , germany has created a 470-billion-euro rescue fund to support the struggling sector . ai / rm , dpa / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de conditions for commerzbank aid package appear to be set the european commission has set conditions for commerzbank to get an 18 billion euros -lrb- $ 23 billion -rrb- rescue package from the german government .
the bank is expected to shed its eurohypo unit .
-lrb- 22.04.2009 -rrb- german government takes large stake in commerzbank the german government has agreed to take a 25-percent share in commerzbank .
the move signals the first time the government has taken a stake in a major private bank and comes as commerzbank is set to buy dresdner bank .
-lrb- 09.01.2009 -rrb- merkel seeks to make bank bailouts more attractive germany 's rescue package for struggling banks may be in for a revamp to make it more appealing to financial institutions that have so far rejected it , german media reported tuesday .
-lrb- 02.12.2008 -rrb- 9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-tv europe live journal - news with in depth we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live stock exchange today in history 1937 : " guernica " exhibited for the first time dw-tv get an inside look at some of germany 's more unusual companies .
flying the german flag - costly voyages for shipping companies captains in the classroom - rostock 's maritime school organbuilding - the art and craft of the perfect sound saving makes cents – new heating technology for industry © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german industrial orders make surprise jump -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de business -pipe- 07.05.2009 german industrial orders make surprise jump großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : daimler truck factory in woerth - demand for german manufactured goods is up german industrial orders in march showed their first rise for six months , on the back of an increase in orders from abroad . preliminary government figures show that german industrial orders grew an unexpected 3.3 percent in march , driven by an increase in demand from abroad .
the rise - economists had expected a moderate fall for the world 's top exporter - is the first piece of hard data to back up the government 's prediction that the economy is set to grow slightly in 2010 .
the german economy is expected to experience negative growth of around six percent this year .
germany 's economics ministry said the seasonally adjusted rise did not even begin to make up for recent months , with orders for goods falling by 14.5 percent in the first quarter .
the ministry said , though , that the latest numbers showed the trend had changed .
the march increase compared with a 3.1 percent drop in february ; and was largely due to a 5.6 percent increase in orders from abroad .
domestic orders also grew by just over one percent .
the month-on-month climb in march was stronger than expected and indicated that europe 's biggest economy may already be on the rebound from the worst effects of the global recession .
however , the european commission slashed its economic projections on monday , saying europe 's economy would shrink by four per cent this year .
that 's double the figure that it predicted at the start of the year . ch / pfd , rtr / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german business confidence falls ; economists say turnaround near business confidence in europe 's largest economy has reached an all time low , but according to some economists , things could level out and even rebound in the coming months .
-lrb- 26.03.2009 -rrb- europe to lose 3.5 million jobs in 2009 , study says a new study by the eu commission says that jobless rolls in the european union will swell by a further 3.5 million this year as the global economic slowdown batters labor markets across europe .
-lrb- 18.02.2009 -rrb- airbus warns of " horrible " year ahead european aircraft manufacturing giant airbus expects a dismal year with orders plummeting as the global economic crisis hits the aviation industry .
-lrb- 15.01.2009 -rrb- 9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - news with in depth we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
digital street art artists in berlin reinvent graffiti by projecting light onto buildings using computer systems .
watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german industrial orders make surprise jump -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 29.03.2011 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de business -pipe- 07.05.2009 german industrial orders make surprise jump großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : daimler truck factory in woerth - demand for german manufactured goods is up german industrial orders in march showed their first rise for six months , on the back of an increase in orders from abroad . preliminary government figures show that german industrial orders grew an unexpected 3.3 percent in march , driven by an increase in demand from abroad .
the rise - economists had expected a moderate fall for the world 's top exporter - is the first piece of hard data to back up the government 's prediction that the economy is set to grow slightly in 2010 .
the german economy is expected to experience negative growth of around six percent this year .
germany 's economics ministry said the seasonally adjusted rise did not even begin to make up for recent months , with orders for goods falling by 14.5 percent in the first quarter .
the ministry said , though , that the latest numbers showed the trend had changed .
the march increase compared with a 3.1 percent drop in february ; and was largely due to a 5.6 percent increase in orders from abroad .
domestic orders also grew by just over one percent .
the month-on-month climb in march was stronger than expected and indicated that europe 's biggest economy may already be on the rebound from the worst effects of the global recession .
however , the european commission slashed its economic projections on monday , saying europe 's economy would shrink by four per cent this year .
that 's double the figure that it predicted at the start of the year . ch / pfd , rtr / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german business confidence falls ; economists say turnaround near business confidence in europe 's largest economy has reached an all time low , but according to some economists , things could level out and even rebound in the coming months .
-lrb- 26.03.2009 -rrb- europe to lose 3.5 million jobs in 2009 , study says a new study by the eu commission says that jobless rolls in the european union will swell by a further 3.5 million this year as the global economic slowdown batters labor markets across europe .
-lrb- 18.02.2009 -rrb- airbus warns of " horrible " year ahead european aircraft manufacturing giant airbus expects a dismal year with orders plummeting as the global economic crisis hits the aviation industry .
-lrb- 15.01.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live kick off !
we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inspired minds gregor zubicky – artistic manager of the swedish chamber orchestra listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
european central bank cuts rates to record low -pipe- nrs-import -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 23.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de economy -pipe- 07.05.2009 european central bank cuts rates to record low großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : jean-claude trichet , the ecb president .
the european central bank has cut its main interest rate to a record low one percent .
the cut was the fourth this year by the frankfurt-based bank , and it may not be the last . ecb president jean-claude trichet announced the cut on thursday , saying the bank was planning to shore up financial market confidence and boost liquidity by extending the period over which the ecb lends funds to banks at fixed rates from 6 months to 12 months and purchasing bonds .
the quarter point rate cut was the fourth this year by the frankfurt-based bank , which sets monetary policy for countries that share the euro currency .
trichet said that inflationary pressures had diminished in the economic downturn , but that the euro-zone economy appeared to be stabilising .
" the latest economic data suggest tentative signs of a stabilisation at very low levels after a first quarter which was significantly weaker than expected , " he told the news conference after the bank 's decision .
" the world economy including the eurozone is still undergoing a severe downturn with the prospect of both external and domestic demand remaining very weak over 2009 before gradually recovering in the course of 2010 , " trichet said .
he also said inflation expectations were consistent with keeping it in line with the bank 's target of price growth at or just below 2 percent .
eurozone inflation is at a record low of 0.6 percent and although some economic data are showing signs of stabilisation , the european commission this week forecast the eurozone 's economy would shrink by 4.0 percent this year .
the ecb has cut rates from 4.25 percent since last october .
trichet indicated that thursday 's rate cut was not necessarily the last . ch / pfd , rtr / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de eu agrees to boost aid to struggling member countries the european union has agreed to double the amount of a bailout fund to 50 billion euros -lrb- $ 67 billion -rrb- .
the fund was created to provide emergency loans to eastern eu countries hit hard by the financial crisis .
-lrb- 05.05.2009 -rrb- japanese pm lauds swift german reaction to financial crisis japanese prime minister taro aso was in berlin on tuesday as part of a three-day trip to europe .
the global economic downturn was on aso 's mind as he met with german chancellor angela merkel .
-lrb- 05.05.2009 -rrb- spring employment boost fails to materialize a much-hoped-for springtime jobs boost has failed to materialize , official german figures show .
-lrb- 30.04.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
bremen book a place in the uefa cup final , clinching a win against rivals hamburg -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 19.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de soccer -pipe- 07.05.2009 bremen book a place in the uefa cup final , clinching a win against rivals hamburg großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bremen 's diego scores but will miss the uefa cup final .
werder bremen came from a goal down to win 3-2 away to sv hamburg thursday to book a uefa cup final date in istanbul against ukrainian side shakhtar donetsk . diego , claudio pizarro and frank baumann were the goal-scoring heroes for bremen to advance to their first ever european final on may 20 in istanbul .
bremen went into the clash trailing 1-0 from the first leg but conceded a goal to hosts hamburg in the 13th minute when joris mathijsen powered his way upfield from defence before finding ivica olic who chipped the ball over bremen 's goalkeepr tim wiese .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : hamburgs 's ivica olic , left , scores his side 's first goal past bremen 's goalkeeper tim wiese olic could have doubled hamburg 's lead on 27 minutes but his effort from close range was saved .
within two minutes bremen were level when diego and pizarro combined well before the brazilian slotted the ball past frank rost .
diego nearly netted a second on 37 minutes but his shot from 25 metres hit the crossbar .
however , the 24-year-old was booked two minutes before the break for an off-the-ball row with alex silva , who also saw yellow , meaning the brazilian will miss the final .
" it was a difficult situation i did n't do anything , not to go to the final is very bad for me , " said diego .
peruvian striker pizarro scored on 66 minutes , beating rost at the near post although the hamburg goalkeeper really should have done better .
baumann looked to have put the game beyond hamburg with bremen 's third seven minutes from time and although olic popped up to score his second of the game to make it 3-2 on the night to set up a tense finale , bremen held on to make it to their first uefa cup final .
" we played well , it was tough to come from two goals down , " said pizarro .
" diego played a great match its a pity he 's not in the final but thats football . "
bremen are the first german side to reach a uefa cup final since borussia dortmund reached the final in 2002 only to lose against feyenoord rotterdam .
ruhr valley side schalke 04 were the last german winners back in 1997 .
same procedure ?
thursday 's semi-final fixture is the third in a series of four matches to be played between the two northern german clubs within a 19-day period . the first game went bremen 's way when goalkeeper tim wiese made three saves in a penalty shootout to knock hamburg out of the german cup semi-final on april 22 . the second saw hamburg gain revenge eight days later with its 0-1 victory in bremen .
the fourth and final derby match is a bundesliga fixture scheduled for sunday , may 10 . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : thomas schaaf has coached werder bremen for a decade intense rivalry as the two biggest cities in northern germany , hamburg and bremen have a long history of competing with each other as hanseatic trading powers , regional centers of industry and culture , and sporting contenders . " what 's very special is that they more or less share the same backyard from which they can get their soccer fans , " deutsche welle 's sports head wolfgang van kann says .
" so it 's always a question of who is better , and where the fans will go . " from a historical perspective , it 's difficult to say which club has been more successful .
according to the so-called " eternal table , " which records the performances of all bundesliga clubs since the competition was founded in 1963 , werder bremen and hamburg are ranked second and third respectively .
at the time of writing , they were separated by just six points . " clearly hamburg has the longer tradition and the longer streak of success , " van kann says .
" bremen has only come up in the last one or two decades , but with huge success . " while hamburg has n't won a title since it lifted the german cup in 1987 , bremen won the german double in 2004 and has qualified for the champions league for the past five seasons . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : fans were disgusted when hooligans killed a 16-year-old in 1982 " the clubs have always been very different , " van kann explains .
" for example you can see that hamburg has had several coaches within the past few years , while bremen has only had one coach for the last 10 years . " fan violence one thing the two clubs do have in common is a dedicated fan base .
hamburg boasts almost 55,000 members , while bremen has more than 30,000 .
but violence involving so-called " ultras " and militant fan groups has driven a wedge between the two cities on more than one occasion . the worst incident took place in october 1982 , when hamburg hosted bremen for a second-round german cup match .
despite a large police presence around the main train station and the stadium , hooligans belonging to a group known as the " hamburg lions " attacked visitors with beer cans , stones and fireworks . a 16-year-old bremen fan named adrian maleika was killed after he was hit on the head by a stone .
while most of germany was shocked , a number of hard-line fans were quoted in the press as being indifferent or hungry for revenge . tensions between supporters of the rival clubs threatened to boil over until representatives of more than 200 fan groups met in the town of scheessel , half-way between bremen and hamburg , and signed a " peace deal " banning revenge attacks . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : werder bremen topped the bundesliga in 1993 and 2004 while provocative lyrics sung in stadiums during northern derbies occasionally refer to the incident , most fans have put the conflict behind them , and prefer to remember - or forget - these four landmark matches from the past 30 years : bremen 6-0 hamburg , may 1 , 2004 the most one-sided result between the two clubs was in bremen as the 2003-04 bundesliga season drew to an end .
some 42,000 spectators watched hamburg striker sergej barbarez score an own-goal and trigger an avalanche of bremen goals .
one match later , werder bremen won the championship with a spectacular 3-1 victory over bayern munich . bremen 4-2 hamburg , october 27 , 1993 just over 34,000 fans turned out to watch the fourth round german cup fixture in bremen 's weserstadion .
austrian midfielder andreas herzog gave bremen an early lead , but hamburg managed to score twice after the break before bernd hobsch leveled the scores in the 74th minute .
when hamburg 's andreas sassen was shown a red card , bremen 's frank neubarth and wynton rufer capitalized by both finding the net in the final four minutes .
the convincing victory saw werder bremen progress through the tournament to win the 1993 german cup . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : horst hrubesch was a key player for hamburg in 1982 .
bremen 5-0 hamburg , may 29 , 1993 bremen also secured the bundesliga crown with one game to spare in 1993 thanks to this overwhelming victory .
andreas herzog and wynton rufer both scored as the home crowd celebrated their club 's third title .
bremen ended the season one point ahead of bayern munich , leaving hamburg to finish 11th .
legendary bremen coach otto rehhagel described the victory as a " milestone " for the club . hamburg 5-0 bremen , may 15 , 1982 one of hamburg 's two highest-ever wins against their northern derby rivals came in the closing stages of the 1981/1982 campaign .
a total of 53,400 fans watched horst hrubesch - now germany 's under-21 coach - score a hat-trick as hamburg demolished bremen 's defense to win the bundesliga title at the expense of second-placed fc cologne . author : sam edmonds editor : darren mara send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de hamburg move closer to uefa final after bremen defeat sv hamburg took the advantage on thursday after defeating bremen 1-0 in the first leg of their uefa cup semi-final matches .
hamburg 's coach says their position is good for the second leg , but bremen is not giving up .
-lrb- 01.05.2009 -rrb- german , ukrainian clubs fight for uefa cup honors domestic pride will be at stake in europe when ukrainian and german clubs battle against each other in the semi-finals of the uefa cup in first-leg matches on thursday .
-lrb- 30.04.2009 -rrb- werder bremen beat hamburg in cup semi-final bremen beat hamburg on penalties to reach the cup final .
bremen 's goalie tim wiese was the man of the game as he saved three penalties .
his side will now face leverkusen in the final .
-lrb- 23.04.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 dw-tv europe live kick off !
we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inspired minds one – to-one with organist , conductor and composer neithard bethke listen live dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report bundesliga predictions bundesliga picks dw 's experts consult the football stars in a bid to predict the bundesliga match day eight results .
scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results at a glance .
dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia moenchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
the secret behind germany 's unemployment rate remaining stagnant -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 31.10.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de labor market -pipe- 07.05.2009 the secret behind germany 's unemployment rate remaining stagnant großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the automobile industry faces eerily empty halls as working hours are slashed german businesses , hard-hit by the financial crisis , resort to a time-tested instrument : rather than fire employees , their working hours are reduced . germany 's economy is expected to shrink by 6 percent this year , according to both the government and leading economic institutes .
but the number of jobless has not skyrocketed , and that is due to the german practice of reduced working hours – not a new concept here , but routinely employed in crises like the 1970s oil embargo , and again after reunification in the early 1990s .
they are all deeply in the red : that is what germany 's leading businesses have in common these days when they look at their first quarter figures .
but rather than lay off valuable workers , they 've ordered reduced working hours .
more than a third of automaker daimler 's and roughly a quarter of bmw 's employees , for instance , are working reduced hours .
at chemical giant basf , more than 4,000 people work shorter hours , and another 3,000 are to join them in june .
production at printer heidelberger druck is down to 11 days a month . instrument to stabilize the job market about 1,4 million people worked shorter hours in april , says germany 's federal labour agency .
the labor market is stable as a result of these many shorter working hours , says agency chief frank-juerrgen weise .
employers revert to shorter working hours when the number of orders dwindles , but the firm wants to keep its skilled workers and specialists .
while the employers only pay wages for the reduced hours , they do continue to pay the full social security dues .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : hundreds-of-thousands manage to keep their jobs but work reduced hours benefits are available from germany 's labor agency for a maximum of 18 months .
workers without children , for instance , can expect 60 percent of their last net salary , families with children are granted seven percent more .
to top that , labour minister olaf scholz last week proposed taking over all social security payments from the companies after half a year , as well as extending the term of shorter working hours from 18 months to two years .
dieter hundt , president of the german employers ' federation bda , was initially opposed to extending to 24 months the option of reduced working hours .
but he welcomed the government 's plan .
" discarding all social security payments is extremely important for the companies , " he said after a meeting last week with scholz and michael sommer , head of the dgb labor federation .
here in germany , social security payments include old age insurance , jobless insurance and health and nursing care insurance – all in all , more than 20 percent of the gross pay package . supporting reduced working hours is expected to cost the federal labor agency about 500 million euros for 100,000 people per year .
critics fear abuse of labor office plans hilmar schneider , director of labor market policies at the institute for the future of labor , iza , is critical of the labor agency 's policy of taking over all social security payments after six months of reduced work . a firm could keep on an employee but reduce his hours to zero , he explains , making him de facto unemployed .
but that employee would still receive his full pay from the labor agency for 24 months . then , the employee could register as unemployed – and would again be eligible for 24 months of financial support .
firms could of course lay off workers , hilmar schneider says , but that is something the government is trying to prevent at all costs .
" with parliamentary elections in september , " the labour market expert says , " the media would be full of mass lay-offs in time for the election . "
danhong zhang / dagmar breitenbach / rob mudge send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de spring employment boost fails to materialize a much-hoped-for springtime jobs boost has failed to materialize , official german figures show .
-lrb- 30.04.2009 -rrb- economic institutes see hard times ahead leading german economic institutes say europe 's largest economy is caught up in the maelstrom of a global recession .
their forecast is even gloomier than the imf 's prediction for 2009 .
-lrb- 23.04.2009 -rrb- germany extends new car subsidy program german chancellor angela merkel 's grand coalition has agreed to boost subsidies for consumers who trade in their old cars for new ones from 1.5 billion euros to five billion euros -lrb- us $ 6.6 billion -rrb- .
-lrb- 08.04.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic listen here to more about " kurzarbeit " feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live discover germany we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live in-box feedback from around the world listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
the secret behind germany 's unemployment rate remaining stagnant -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 21.09.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de labor market -pipe- 07.05.2009 the secret behind germany 's unemployment rate remaining stagnant großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the automobile industry faces eerily empty halls as working hours are slashed german businesses , hard-hit by the financial crisis , resort to a time-tested instrument : rather than fire employees , their working hours are reduced . germany 's economy is expected to shrink by 6 percent this year , according to both the government and leading economic institutes .
but the number of jobless has not skyrocketed , and that is due to the german practice of reduced working hours – not a new concept here , but routinely employed in crises like the 1970s oil embargo , and again after reunification in the early 1990s .
they are all deeply in the red : that is what germany 's leading businesses have in common these days when they look at their first quarter figures .
but rather than lay off valuable workers , they 've ordered reduced working hours .
more than a third of automaker daimler 's and roughly a quarter of bmw 's employees , for instance , are working reduced hours .
at chemical giant basf , more than 4,000 people work shorter hours , and another 3,000 are to join them in june .
production at printer heidelberger druck is down to 11 days a month . instrument to stabilize the job market about 1,4 million people worked shorter hours in april , says germany 's federal labour agency .
the labor market is stable as a result of these many shorter working hours , says agency chief frank-juerrgen weise .
employers revert to shorter working hours when the number of orders dwindles , but the firm wants to keep its skilled workers and specialists .
while the employers only pay wages for the reduced hours , they do continue to pay the full social security dues .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : hundreds-of-thousands manage to keep their jobs but work reduced hours benefits are available from germany 's labor agency for a maximum of 18 months .
workers without children , for instance , can expect 60 percent of their last net salary , families with children are granted seven percent more .
to top that , labour minister olaf scholz last week proposed taking over all social security payments from the companies after half a year , as well as extending the term of shorter working hours from 18 months to two years .
dieter hundt , president of the german employers ' federation bda , was initially opposed to extending to 24 months the option of reduced working hours .
but he welcomed the government 's plan .
" discarding all social security payments is extremely important for the companies , " he said after a meeting last week with scholz and michael sommer , head of the dgb labor federation .
here in germany , social security payments include old age insurance , jobless insurance and health and nursing care insurance – all in all , more than 20 percent of the gross pay package . supporting reduced working hours is expected to cost the federal labor agency about 500 million euros for 100,000 people per year .
critics fear abuse of labor office plans hilmar schneider , director of labor market policies at the institute for the future of labor , iza , is critical of the labor agency 's policy of taking over all social security payments after six months of reduced work . a firm could keep on an employee but reduce his hours to zero , he explains , making him de facto unemployed .
but that employee would still receive his full pay from the labor agency for 24 months . then , the employee could register as unemployed – and would again be eligible for 24 months of financial support .
firms could of course lay off workers , hilmar schneider says , but that is something the government is trying to prevent at all costs .
" with parliamentary elections in september , " the labour market expert says , " the media would be full of mass lay-offs in time for the election . "
danhong zhang / dagmar breitenbach / rob mudge send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de spring employment boost fails to materialize a much-hoped-for springtime jobs boost has failed to materialize , official german figures show .
-lrb- 30.04.2009 -rrb- economic institutes see hard times ahead leading german economic institutes say europe 's largest economy is caught up in the maelstrom of a global recession .
their forecast is even gloomier than the imf 's prediction for 2009 .
-lrb- 23.04.2009 -rrb- germany extends new car subsidy program german chancellor angela merkel 's grand coalition has agreed to boost subsidies for consumers who trade in their old cars for new ones from 1.5 billion euros to five billion euros -lrb- us $ 6.6 billion -rrb- .
-lrb- 08.04.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic listen here to more about " kurzarbeit " feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live living in germany listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
the secret behind germany 's unemployment rate remaining stagnant -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 23.12.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de labor market -pipe- 07.05.2009 the secret behind germany 's unemployment rate remaining stagnant großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the automobile industry faces eerily empty halls as working hours are slashed german businesses , hard-hit by the financial crisis , resort to a time-tested instrument : rather than fire employees , their working hours are reduced . germany 's economy is expected to shrink by 6 percent this year , according to both the government and leading economic institutes .
but the number of jobless has not skyrocketed , and that is due to the german practice of reduced working hours – not a new concept here , but routinely employed in crises like the 1970s oil embargo , and again after reunification in the early 1990s .
they are all deeply in the red : that is what germany 's leading businesses have in common these days when they look at their first quarter figures .
but rather than lay off valuable workers , they 've ordered reduced working hours .
more than a third of automaker daimler 's and roughly a quarter of bmw 's employees , for instance , are working reduced hours .
at chemical giant basf , more than 4,000 people work shorter hours , and another 3,000 are to join them in june .
production at printer heidelberger druck is down to 11 days a month . instrument to stabilize the job market about 1,4 million people worked shorter hours in april , says germany 's federal labour agency .
the labor market is stable as a result of these many shorter working hours , says agency chief frank-juerrgen weise .
employers revert to shorter working hours when the number of orders dwindles , but the firm wants to keep its skilled workers and specialists .
while the employers only pay wages for the reduced hours , they do continue to pay the full social security dues .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : hundreds-of-thousands manage to keep their jobs but work reduced hours benefits are available from germany 's labor agency for a maximum of 18 months .
workers without children , for instance , can expect 60 percent of their last net salary , families with children are granted seven percent more .
to top that , labour minister olaf scholz last week proposed taking over all social security payments from the companies after half a year , as well as extending the term of shorter working hours from 18 months to two years .
dieter hundt , president of the german employers ' federation bda , was initially opposed to extending to 24 months the option of reduced working hours .
but he welcomed the government 's plan .
" discarding all social security payments is extremely important for the companies , " he said after a meeting last week with scholz and michael sommer , head of the dgb labor federation .
here in germany , social security payments include old age insurance , jobless insurance and health and nursing care insurance – all in all , more than 20 percent of the gross pay package . supporting reduced working hours is expected to cost the federal labor agency about 500 million euros for 100,000 people per year .
critics fear abuse of labor office plans hilmar schneider , director of labor market policies at the institute for the future of labor , iza , is critical of the labor agency 's policy of taking over all social security payments after six months of reduced work . a firm could keep on an employee but reduce his hours to zero , he explains , making him de facto unemployed .
but that employee would still receive his full pay from the labor agency for 24 months . then , the employee could register as unemployed – and would again be eligible for 24 months of financial support .
firms could of course lay off workers , hilmar schneider says , but that is something the government is trying to prevent at all costs .
" with parliamentary elections in september , " the labour market expert says , " the media would be full of mass lay-offs in time for the election . "
danhong zhang / dagmar breitenbach / rob mudge send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de spring employment boost fails to materialize a much-hoped-for springtime jobs boost has failed to materialize , official german figures show .
-lrb- 30.04.2009 -rrb- economic institutes see hard times ahead leading german economic institutes say europe 's largest economy is caught up in the maelstrom of a global recession .
their forecast is even gloomier than the imf 's prediction for 2009 .
-lrb- 23.04.2009 -rrb- germany extends new car subsidy program german chancellor angela merkel 's grand coalition has agreed to boost subsidies for consumers who trade in their old cars for new ones from 1.5 billion euros to five billion euros -lrb- us $ 6.6 billion -rrb- .
-lrb- 08.04.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic listen here to more about " kurzarbeit " feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
travel passau is called the three river city , but it is just as famous for its baroque splendor .
passau - baroque facades and vibrant arts watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
the secret behind germany 's unemployment rate remaining stagnant -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 20.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de labor market -pipe- 07.05.2009 the secret behind germany 's unemployment rate remaining stagnant großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the automobile industry faces eerily empty halls as working hours are slashed german businesses , hard-hit by the financial crisis , resort to a time-tested instrument : rather than fire employees , their working hours are reduced . germany 's economy is expected to shrink by 6 percent this year , according to both the government and leading economic institutes .
but the number of jobless has not skyrocketed , and that is due to the german practice of reduced working hours – not a new concept here , but routinely employed in crises like the 1970s oil embargo , and again after reunification in the early 1990s .
they are all deeply in the red : that is what germany 's leading businesses have in common these days when they look at their first quarter figures .
but rather than lay off valuable workers , they 've ordered reduced working hours .
more than a third of automaker daimler 's and roughly a quarter of bmw 's employees , for instance , are working reduced hours .
at chemical giant basf , more than 4,000 people work shorter hours , and another 3,000 are to join them in june .
production at printer heidelberger druck is down to 11 days a month . instrument to stabilize the job market about 1,4 million people worked shorter hours in april , says germany 's federal labour agency .
the labor market is stable as a result of these many shorter working hours , says agency chief frank-juerrgen weise .
employers revert to shorter working hours when the number of orders dwindles , but the firm wants to keep its skilled workers and specialists .
while the employers only pay wages for the reduced hours , they do continue to pay the full social security dues .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : hundreds-of-thousands manage to keep their jobs but work reduced hours benefits are available from germany 's labor agency for a maximum of 18 months .
workers without children , for instance , can expect 60 percent of their last net salary , families with children are granted seven percent more .
to top that , labour minister olaf scholz last week proposed taking over all social security payments from the companies after half a year , as well as extending the term of shorter working hours from 18 months to two years .
dieter hundt , president of the german employers ' federation bda , was initially opposed to extending to 24 months the option of reduced working hours .
but he welcomed the government 's plan .
" discarding all social security payments is extremely important for the companies , " he said after a meeting last week with scholz and michael sommer , head of the dgb labor federation .
here in germany , social security payments include old age insurance , jobless insurance and health and nursing care insurance – all in all , more than 20 percent of the gross pay package . supporting reduced working hours is expected to cost the federal labor agency about 500 million euros for 100,000 people per year .
critics fear abuse of labor office plans hilmar schneider , director of labor market policies at the institute for the future of labor , iza , is critical of the labor agency 's policy of taking over all social security payments after six months of reduced work . a firm could keep on an employee but reduce his hours to zero , he explains , making him de facto unemployed .
but that employee would still receive his full pay from the labor agency for 24 months . then , the employee could register as unemployed – and would again be eligible for 24 months of financial support .
firms could of course lay off workers , hilmar schneider says , but that is something the government is trying to prevent at all costs .
" with parliamentary elections in september , " the labour market expert says , " the media would be full of mass lay-offs in time for the election . "
danhong zhang / dagmar breitenbach / rob mudge send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de spring employment boost fails to materialize a much-hoped-for springtime jobs boost has failed to materialize , official german figures show .
-lrb- 30.04.2009 -rrb- economic institutes see hard times ahead leading german economic institutes say europe 's largest economy is caught up in the maelstrom of a global recession .
their forecast is even gloomier than the imf 's prediction for 2009 .
-lrb- 23.04.2009 -rrb- germany extends new car subsidy program german chancellor angela merkel 's grand coalition has agreed to boost subsidies for consumers who trade in their old cars for new ones from 1.5 billion euros to five billion euros -lrb- us $ 6.6 billion -rrb- .
-lrb- 08.04.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic listen here to more about " kurzarbeit " 9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live popxport we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
culture west german photographer thomas hoepker documented life abroad - in east germany - in the 1970s .
watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
the secret behind germany 's unemployment rate remaining stagnant -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 26.01.2011 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de labor market -pipe- 07.05.2009 the secret behind germany 's unemployment rate remaining stagnant großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the automobile industry faces eerily empty halls as working hours are slashed german businesses , hard-hit by the financial crisis , resort to a time-tested instrument : rather than fire employees , their working hours are reduced . germany 's economy is expected to shrink by 6 percent this year , according to both the government and leading economic institutes .
but the number of jobless has not skyrocketed , and that is due to the german practice of reduced working hours – not a new concept here , but routinely employed in crises like the 1970s oil embargo , and again after reunification in the early 1990s .
they are all deeply in the red : that is what germany 's leading businesses have in common these days when they look at their first quarter figures .
but rather than lay off valuable workers , they 've ordered reduced working hours .
more than a third of automaker daimler 's and roughly a quarter of bmw 's employees , for instance , are working reduced hours .
at chemical giant basf , more than 4,000 people work shorter hours , and another 3,000 are to join them in june .
production at printer heidelberger druck is down to 11 days a month . instrument to stabilize the job market about 1,4 million people worked shorter hours in april , says germany 's federal labour agency .
the labor market is stable as a result of these many shorter working hours , says agency chief frank-juerrgen weise .
employers revert to shorter working hours when the number of orders dwindles , but the firm wants to keep its skilled workers and specialists .
while the employers only pay wages for the reduced hours , they do continue to pay the full social security dues .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : hundreds-of-thousands manage to keep their jobs but work reduced hours benefits are available from germany 's labor agency for a maximum of 18 months .
workers without children , for instance , can expect 60 percent of their last net salary , families with children are granted seven percent more .
to top that , labour minister olaf scholz last week proposed taking over all social security payments from the companies after half a year , as well as extending the term of shorter working hours from 18 months to two years .
dieter hundt , president of the german employers ' federation bda , was initially opposed to extending to 24 months the option of reduced working hours .
but he welcomed the government 's plan .
" discarding all social security payments is extremely important for the companies , " he said after a meeting last week with scholz and michael sommer , head of the dgb labor federation .
here in germany , social security payments include old age insurance , jobless insurance and health and nursing care insurance – all in all , more than 20 percent of the gross pay package . supporting reduced working hours is expected to cost the federal labor agency about 500 million euros for 100,000 people per year .
critics fear abuse of labor office plans hilmar schneider , director of labor market policies at the institute for the future of labor , iza , is critical of the labor agency 's policy of taking over all social security payments after six months of reduced work . a firm could keep on an employee but reduce his hours to zero , he explains , making him de facto unemployed .
but that employee would still receive his full pay from the labor agency for 24 months . then , the employee could register as unemployed – and would again be eligible for 24 months of financial support .
firms could of course lay off workers , hilmar schneider says , but that is something the government is trying to prevent at all costs .
" with parliamentary elections in september , " the labour market expert says , " the media would be full of mass lay-offs in time for the election . "
danhong zhang / dagmar breitenbach / rob mudge send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de spring employment boost fails to materialize a much-hoped-for springtime jobs boost has failed to materialize , official german figures show .
-lrb- 30.04.2009 -rrb- economic institutes see hard times ahead leading german economic institutes say europe 's largest economy is caught up in the maelstrom of a global recession .
their forecast is even gloomier than the imf 's prediction for 2009 .
-lrb- 23.04.2009 -rrb- germany extends new car subsidy program german chancellor angela merkel 's grand coalition has agreed to boost subsidies for consumers who trade in their old cars for new ones from 1.5 billion euros to five billion euros -lrb- us $ 6.6 billion -rrb- .
-lrb- 08.04.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic listen here to more about " kurzarbeit " feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live tomorrow today we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live spectrum listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
the secret behind germany 's unemployment rate remaining stagnant -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de labor market -pipe- 07.05.2009 the secret behind germany 's unemployment rate remaining stagnant großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the automobile industry faces eerily empty halls as working hours are slashed german businesses , hard-hit by the financial crisis , resort to a time-tested instrument : rather than fire employees , their working hours are reduced . germany 's economy is expected to shrink by 6 percent this year , according to both the government and leading economic institutes .
but the number of jobless has not skyrocketed , and that is due to the german practice of reduced working hours – not a new concept here , but routinely employed in crises like the 1970s oil embargo , and again after reunification in the early 1990s .
they are all deeply in the red : that is what germany 's leading businesses have in common these days when they look at their first quarter figures .
but rather than lay off valuable workers , they 've ordered reduced working hours .
more than a third of automaker daimler 's and roughly a quarter of bmw 's employees , for instance , are working reduced hours .
at chemical giant basf , more than 4,000 people work shorter hours , and another 3,000 are to join them in june .
production at printer heidelberger druck is down to 11 days a month . instrument to stabilize the job market about 1,4 million people worked shorter hours in april , says germany 's federal labour agency .
the labor market is stable as a result of these many shorter working hours , says agency chief frank-juerrgen weise .
employers revert to shorter working hours when the number of orders dwindles , but the firm wants to keep its skilled workers and specialists .
while the employers only pay wages for the reduced hours , they do continue to pay the full social security dues .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : hundreds-of-thousands manage to keep their jobs but work reduced hours benefits are available from germany 's labor agency for a maximum of 18 months .
workers without children , for instance , can expect 60 percent of their last net salary , families with children are granted seven percent more .
to top that , labour minister olaf scholz last week proposed taking over all social security payments from the companies after half a year , as well as extending the term of shorter working hours from 18 months to two years .
dieter hundt , president of the german employers ' federation bda , was initially opposed to extending to 24 months the option of reduced working hours .
but he welcomed the government 's plan .
" discarding all social security payments is extremely important for the companies , " he said after a meeting last week with scholz and michael sommer , head of the dgb labor federation .
here in germany , social security payments include old age insurance , jobless insurance and health and nursing care insurance – all in all , more than 20 percent of the gross pay package . supporting reduced working hours is expected to cost the federal labor agency about 500 million euros for 100,000 people per year .
critics fear abuse of labor office plans hilmar schneider , director of labor market policies at the institute for the future of labor , iza , is critical of the labor agency 's policy of taking over all social security payments after six months of reduced work . a firm could keep on an employee but reduce his hours to zero , he explains , making him de facto unemployed .
but that employee would still receive his full pay from the labor agency for 24 months . then , the employee could register as unemployed – and would again be eligible for 24 months of financial support .
firms could of course lay off workers , hilmar schneider says , but that is something the government is trying to prevent at all costs .
" with parliamentary elections in september , " the labour market expert says , " the media would be full of mass lay-offs in time for the election . "
danhong zhang / dagmar breitenbach / rob mudge send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de spring employment boost fails to materialize a much-hoped-for springtime jobs boost has failed to materialize , official german figures show .
-lrb- 30.04.2009 -rrb- economic institutes see hard times ahead leading german economic institutes say europe 's largest economy is caught up in the maelstrom of a global recession .
their forecast is even gloomier than the imf 's prediction for 2009 .
-lrb- 23.04.2009 -rrb- germany extends new car subsidy program german chancellor angela merkel 's grand coalition has agreed to boost subsidies for consumers who trade in their old cars for new ones from 1.5 billion euros to five billion euros -lrb- us $ 6.6 billion -rrb- .
-lrb- 08.04.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic listen here to more about " kurzarbeit " 9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit tagesthema we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
digital street art artists in berlin reinvent graffiti by projecting light onto buildings using computer systems .
watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
european central bank cuts rates to record low -pipe- nrs-import -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de economy -pipe- 07.05.2009 european central bank cuts rates to record low großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : jean-claude trichet , the ecb president .
the european central bank has cut its main interest rate to a record low one percent .
the cut was the fourth this year by the frankfurt-based bank , and it may not be the last . ecb president jean-claude trichet announced the cut on thursday , saying the bank was planning to shore up financial market confidence and boost liquidity by extending the period over which the ecb lends funds to banks at fixed rates from 6 months to 12 months and purchasing bonds .
the quarter point rate cut was the fourth this year by the frankfurt-based bank , which sets monetary policy for countries that share the euro currency .
trichet said that inflationary pressures had diminished in the economic downturn , but that the euro-zone economy appeared to be stabilising .
" the latest economic data suggest tentative signs of a stabilisation at very low levels after a first quarter which was significantly weaker than expected , " he told the news conference after the bank 's decision .
" the world economy including the eurozone is still undergoing a severe downturn with the prospect of both external and domestic demand remaining very weak over 2009 before gradually recovering in the course of 2010 , " trichet said .
he also said inflation expectations were consistent with keeping it in line with the bank 's target of price growth at or just below 2 percent .
eurozone inflation is at a record low of 0.6 percent and although some economic data are showing signs of stabilisation , the european commission this week forecast the eurozone 's economy would shrink by 4.0 percent this year .
the ecb has cut rates from 4.25 percent since last october .
trichet indicated that thursday 's rate cut was not necessarily the last . ch / pfd , rtr / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de eu agrees to boost aid to struggling member countries the european union has agreed to double the amount of a bailout fund to 50 billion euros -lrb- $ 67 billion -rrb- .
the fund was created to provide emergency loans to eastern eu countries hit hard by the financial crisis .
-lrb- 05.05.2009 -rrb- japanese pm lauds swift german reaction to financial crisis japanese prime minister taro aso was in berlin on tuesday as part of a three-day trip to europe .
the global economic downturn was on aso 's mind as he met with german chancellor angela merkel .
-lrb- 05.05.2009 -rrb- spring employment boost fails to materialize a much-hoped-for springtime jobs boost has failed to materialize , official german figures show .
-lrb- 30.04.2009 -rrb- 9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
european central bank cuts rates to record low -pipe- nrs-import -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 25.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de economy -pipe- 07.05.2009 european central bank cuts rates to record low großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : jean-claude trichet , the ecb president .
the european central bank has cut its main interest rate to a record low one percent .
the cut was the fourth this year by the frankfurt-based bank , and it may not be the last . ecb president jean-claude trichet announced the cut on thursday , saying the bank was planning to shore up financial market confidence and boost liquidity by extending the period over which the ecb lends funds to banks at fixed rates from 6 months to 12 months and purchasing bonds .
the quarter point rate cut was the fourth this year by the frankfurt-based bank , which sets monetary policy for countries that share the euro currency .
trichet said that inflationary pressures had diminished in the economic downturn , but that the euro-zone economy appeared to be stabilising .
" the latest economic data suggest tentative signs of a stabilisation at very low levels after a first quarter which was significantly weaker than expected , " he told the news conference after the bank 's decision .
" the world economy including the eurozone is still undergoing a severe downturn with the prospect of both external and domestic demand remaining very weak over 2009 before gradually recovering in the course of 2010 , " trichet said .
he also said inflation expectations were consistent with keeping it in line with the bank 's target of price growth at or just below 2 percent .
eurozone inflation is at a record low of 0.6 percent and although some economic data are showing signs of stabilisation , the european commission this week forecast the eurozone 's economy would shrink by 4.0 percent this year .
the ecb has cut rates from 4.25 percent since last october .
trichet indicated that thursday 's rate cut was not necessarily the last . ch / pfd , rtr / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de eu agrees to boost aid to struggling member countries the european union has agreed to double the amount of a bailout fund to 50 billion euros -lrb- $ 67 billion -rrb- .
the fund was created to provide emergency loans to eastern eu countries hit hard by the financial crisis .
-lrb- 05.05.2009 -rrb- japanese pm lauds swift german reaction to financial crisis japanese prime minister taro aso was in berlin on tuesday as part of a three-day trip to europe .
the global economic downturn was on aso 's mind as he met with german chancellor angela merkel .
-lrb- 05.05.2009 -rrb- spring employment boost fails to materialize a much-hoped-for springtime jobs boost has failed to materialize , official german figures show .
-lrb- 30.04.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
european central bank cuts rates to record low -pipe- nrs-import -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 20.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de economy -pipe- 07.05.2009 european central bank cuts rates to record low großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : jean-claude trichet , the ecb president .
the european central bank has cut its main interest rate to a record low one percent .
the cut was the fourth this year by the frankfurt-based bank , and it may not be the last . ecb president jean-claude trichet announced the cut on thursday , saying the bank was planning to shore up financial market confidence and boost liquidity by extending the period over which the ecb lends funds to banks at fixed rates from 6 months to 12 months and purchasing bonds .
the quarter point rate cut was the fourth this year by the frankfurt-based bank , which sets monetary policy for countries that share the euro currency .
trichet said that inflationary pressures had diminished in the economic downturn , but that the euro-zone economy appeared to be stabilising .
" the latest economic data suggest tentative signs of a stabilisation at very low levels after a first quarter which was significantly weaker than expected , " he told the news conference after the bank 's decision .
" the world economy including the eurozone is still undergoing a severe downturn with the prospect of both external and domestic demand remaining very weak over 2009 before gradually recovering in the course of 2010 , " trichet said .
he also said inflation expectations were consistent with keeping it in line with the bank 's target of price growth at or just below 2 percent .
eurozone inflation is at a record low of 0.6 percent and although some economic data are showing signs of stabilisation , the european commission this week forecast the eurozone 's economy would shrink by 4.0 percent this year .
the ecb has cut rates from 4.25 percent since last october .
trichet indicated that thursday 's rate cut was not necessarily the last . ch / pfd , rtr / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de eu agrees to boost aid to struggling member countries the european union has agreed to double the amount of a bailout fund to 50 billion euros -lrb- $ 67 billion -rrb- .
the fund was created to provide emergency loans to eastern eu countries hit hard by the financial crisis .
-lrb- 05.05.2009 -rrb- japanese pm lauds swift german reaction to financial crisis japanese prime minister taro aso was in berlin on tuesday as part of a three-day trip to europe .
the global economic downturn was on aso 's mind as he met with german chancellor angela merkel .
-lrb- 05.05.2009 -rrb- spring employment boost fails to materialize a much-hoped-for springtime jobs boost has failed to materialize , official german figures show .
-lrb- 30.04.2009 -rrb- 9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
european central bank cuts rates to record low -pipe- nrs-import -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 22.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de economy -pipe- 07.05.2009 european central bank cuts rates to record low großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : jean-claude trichet , the ecb president .
the european central bank has cut its main interest rate to a record low one percent .
the cut was the fourth this year by the frankfurt-based bank , and it may not be the last . ecb president jean-claude trichet announced the cut on thursday , saying the bank was planning to shore up financial market confidence and boost liquidity by extending the period over which the ecb lends funds to banks at fixed rates from 6 months to 12 months and purchasing bonds .
the quarter point rate cut was the fourth this year by the frankfurt-based bank , which sets monetary policy for countries that share the euro currency .
trichet said that inflationary pressures had diminished in the economic downturn , but that the euro-zone economy appeared to be stabilising .
" the latest economic data suggest tentative signs of a stabilisation at very low levels after a first quarter which was significantly weaker than expected , " he told the news conference after the bank 's decision .
" the world economy including the eurozone is still undergoing a severe downturn with the prospect of both external and domestic demand remaining very weak over 2009 before gradually recovering in the course of 2010 , " trichet said .
he also said inflation expectations were consistent with keeping it in line with the bank 's target of price growth at or just below 2 percent .
eurozone inflation is at a record low of 0.6 percent and although some economic data are showing signs of stabilisation , the european commission this week forecast the eurozone 's economy would shrink by 4.0 percent this year .
the ecb has cut rates from 4.25 percent since last october .
trichet indicated that thursday 's rate cut was not necessarily the last . ch / pfd , rtr / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de eu agrees to boost aid to struggling member countries the european union has agreed to double the amount of a bailout fund to 50 billion euros -lrb- $ 67 billion -rrb- .
the fund was created to provide emergency loans to eastern eu countries hit hard by the financial crisis .
-lrb- 05.05.2009 -rrb- japanese pm lauds swift german reaction to financial crisis japanese prime minister taro aso was in berlin on tuesday as part of a three-day trip to europe .
the global economic downturn was on aso 's mind as he met with german chancellor angela merkel .
-lrb- 05.05.2009 -rrb- spring employment boost fails to materialize a much-hoped-for springtime jobs boost has failed to materialize , official german figures show .
-lrb- 30.04.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
european central bank cuts rates to record low -pipe- nrs-import -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 31.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de economy -pipe- 07.05.2009 european central bank cuts rates to record low großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : jean-claude trichet , the ecb president .
the european central bank has cut its main interest rate to a record low one percent .
the cut was the fourth this year by the frankfurt-based bank , and it may not be the last . ecb president jean-claude trichet announced the cut on thursday , saying the bank was planning to shore up financial market confidence and boost liquidity by extending the period over which the ecb lends funds to banks at fixed rates from 6 months to 12 months and purchasing bonds .
the quarter point rate cut was the fourth this year by the frankfurt-based bank , which sets monetary policy for countries that share the euro currency .
trichet said that inflationary pressures had diminished in the economic downturn , but that the euro-zone economy appeared to be stabilising .
" the latest economic data suggest tentative signs of a stabilisation at very low levels after a first quarter which was significantly weaker than expected , " he told the news conference after the bank 's decision .
" the world economy including the eurozone is still undergoing a severe downturn with the prospect of both external and domestic demand remaining very weak over 2009 before gradually recovering in the course of 2010 , " trichet said .
he also said inflation expectations were consistent with keeping it in line with the bank 's target of price growth at or just below 2 percent .
eurozone inflation is at a record low of 0.6 percent and although some economic data are showing signs of stabilisation , the european commission this week forecast the eurozone 's economy would shrink by 4.0 percent this year .
the ecb has cut rates from 4.25 percent since last october .
trichet indicated that thursday 's rate cut was not necessarily the last . ch / pfd , rtr / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de eu agrees to boost aid to struggling member countries the european union has agreed to double the amount of a bailout fund to 50 billion euros -lrb- $ 67 billion -rrb- .
the fund was created to provide emergency loans to eastern eu countries hit hard by the financial crisis .
-lrb- 05.05.2009 -rrb- japanese pm lauds swift german reaction to financial crisis japanese prime minister taro aso was in berlin on tuesday as part of a three-day trip to europe .
the global economic downturn was on aso 's mind as he met with german chancellor angela merkel .
-lrb- 05.05.2009 -rrb- spring employment boost fails to materialize a much-hoped-for springtime jobs boost has failed to materialize , official german figures show .
-lrb- 30.04.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
european central bank cuts rates to record low -pipe- nrs-import -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de economy -pipe- 07.05.2009 european central bank cuts rates to record low großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : jean-claude trichet , the ecb president .
the european central bank has cut its main interest rate to a record low one percent .
the cut was the fourth this year by the frankfurt-based bank , and it may not be the last . ecb president jean-claude trichet announced the cut on thursday , saying the bank was planning to shore up financial market confidence and boost liquidity by extending the period over which the ecb lends funds to banks at fixed rates from 6 months to 12 months and purchasing bonds .
the quarter point rate cut was the fourth this year by the frankfurt-based bank , which sets monetary policy for countries that share the euro currency .
trichet said that inflationary pressures had diminished in the economic downturn , but that the euro-zone economy appeared to be stabilising .
" the latest economic data suggest tentative signs of a stabilisation at very low levels after a first quarter which was significantly weaker than expected , " he told the news conference after the bank 's decision .
" the world economy including the eurozone is still undergoing a severe downturn with the prospect of both external and domestic demand remaining very weak over 2009 before gradually recovering in the course of 2010 , " trichet said .
he also said inflation expectations were consistent with keeping it in line with the bank 's target of price growth at or just below 2 percent .
eurozone inflation is at a record low of 0.6 percent and although some economic data are showing signs of stabilisation , the european commission this week forecast the eurozone 's economy would shrink by 4.0 percent this year .
the ecb has cut rates from 4.25 percent since last october .
trichet indicated that thursday 's rate cut was not necessarily the last . ch / pfd , rtr / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de eu agrees to boost aid to struggling member countries the european union has agreed to double the amount of a bailout fund to 50 billion euros -lrb- $ 67 billion -rrb- .
the fund was created to provide emergency loans to eastern eu countries hit hard by the financial crisis .
-lrb- 05.05.2009 -rrb- japanese pm lauds swift german reaction to financial crisis japanese prime minister taro aso was in berlin on tuesday as part of a three-day trip to europe .
the global economic downturn was on aso 's mind as he met with german chancellor angela merkel .
-lrb- 05.05.2009 -rrb- spring employment boost fails to materialize a much-hoped-for springtime jobs boost has failed to materialize , official german figures show .
-lrb- 30.04.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
doubts remain over medvedev 's power and policy after first year in office -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 07.09.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de russia -pipe- 07.05.2009 doubts remain over medvedev 's power and policy after first year in office großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : medvedev has had a busy first 12 months in power russian president dmitry medvedev marks the one-year anniversary of his coming to power on may 7 .
twelve months on , questions and doubts still remain over his legitimacy and his policies . global opinion was divided when dmitry medvedev became russian president on may 7 last year .
some saw the new leader as a puppet of vladimir putin , his predecessor and the man who medvedev had served loyally throughout his two terms in office .
others saw the incoming president as a man who could drive russia down a more liberal and democratic road , and reverse decades of state oppression .
one year on – a year during which medvedev has waged his first war and has been thrust into the forefront of the worst global economic crisis for over 80 years – questions and doubts still remain over whether medvedev is really the man leading russia and if he is , whether he is the right man to reform his nation .
so to what extent has medvedev been successful in attempting to answer those questions leveled against him ?
" from medvedev 's point of view , it 's probably been quite a successful year , " sam greene , the deputy director for operations at the carnegie endowment for international peace in moscow , told deutsche welle .
" this dual system of government which was put together – with medvedev as president and putin as prime minister – has not been without its problems but it 's worked relatively well .
it 's kept the ruling elite relatively cohesive and both medvedev and putin have remained popular politically and are seen as relatively legitimate both at home and internationally .
so it has been a success story for the experiment – which is what this presidency with putin as prime minister is ; a huge political experiment .
" but from a policy perspective , in terms of the reforms that medvedev talked about prior to becoming president ; strengthening the rule of law , diversifying the economy – there really have n't been any policy successes , " he added .
" his rhetoric has been very good .
he speaks very ably on the rule of law , on democracy , on economic liberalism but there was a lot of good rhetoric from putin on these issues for eight years and we did n't see any progress in that direction from him either . "
criticism stems from lack of reform progress much of the analysis of medvedev 's first year in power focuses on these promised reforms and the progress – or lack thereof – that russia has made in the spheres of democracy , human rights and press freedom .
according to professor margot light , a russia expert at the center for the study of global governance at the london school of economics , medvedev has fallen short of the optimists ' expectations .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : medvedev was initially against khodorkovsky 's second trial " there have been many words but very few deeds , " she said .
" medvedev came to power with everyone saying that he was far more liberal than putin .
in fact there has been very little sign of this .
it 's only been in the last couple of weeks that he 's started to talk the liberal talk , by giving an interview to an opposition newspaper , for example .
but apart from that there have been very little progress .
there has been the second trial of -lrb- jailed russian oil oligarch mikhail -rrb- khodorkovsky , even though medvedev himself seemed to be against it ; the electronic media is no freer than it was before he came to power and the non-governmental organizations are still having a tough time so there a very few signs that he has made much progress on the democratization front . "
meanwhile , amnesty international declared on the president 's first anniversary that little had been done to improve human rights in russia since he came to power .
in a statement released on thursday , amnesty said that in some areas the situation has deteriorated despite initial improvements , specifically in relation to attacks against lawyers , journalists and opposition activists which it said were on the rise .
sam greene agrees .
" the situation with the press has n't got any better , in fact in some cases it has actually gotten worse , " he said .
" we 've seen more violence against the press .
this is not state-sponsored violence but it 's part of the current climate and it is part of the responsibility of the state to improve the atmosphere and to make clear that violence against the media will not be tolerated .
" in terms of democracy , there was some talk about reforms to the electoral laws but they 've been slow in coming , " he added .
" we saw municipal elections around the country in which the ruling party continued to dominate , continued to rely on administrative resources and its ability to manipulate the system .
we saw this very clearly in the recent mayoral elections in sochi just like month . "
leadership partners still hugely popular in russia despite these criticisms , neither medvedev nor putin has suffered a serious reversal in popularity within the populace .
in fact , both retain huge support within russia .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : medvedev is gaining the kind of star status putin enjoys " medvedev enjoys very high ratings but the problem has always been that russians appear to prefer order to justice , " light said .
" russians are in favor of tough measures if they believe that those tough measures actually make the country more orderly .
so the president and putin still enjoy enormous support from the population . "
sam greene admits that medvedev and putin may have seen a minor dip in popularity but this is mainly due to the current economic crisis , which has seen unemployment in russia increase and income decrease , and not because of any democratic or liberal failures .
but greene believes that the population does n't hold the leadership partners responsible for its economic woes .
“ the people do n't blame medvedev and putin for these problems nor do they really expect the government or medvedev to be able to do much about them , " he said .
" the people are quite pragmatic , if not cynical , about the russian government 's ability to deal with this crisis . "
while medvedev 's polices have been increasingly scrutinized since he came to power , the partnership agreement struck between the president and his prime minister has also come under close inspection during this first year .
questions remain over who really is the boss bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the partnership has to and will endure , say experts the state of the two men 's relationship has been the subject of intense speculation lately as medvedev has grown into his role and repeated reports of an imminent split between the two have begun to circulate .
but both sam greene and margot light believe the partnership will endure .
" i think there was a very clear arrangement between the two of them ahead of their presidential election under which it was agreed that they were playing on the same team and playing the same role which was to maintain the outward legitimacy and stability of the political system and to mediate conflict between the various groups in the elite , " greene said .
" i would n't expect them to work at cross purposes unless there was a real split between the powerful elite in the country .
there seems to be a broad consensus that this current system needs to continue so i think the relationship between medvedev and putin will remain stable .
the only thing that 's changed is that medvedev has become a bit more comfortable in the position , has begun to understand what he can and can not do and become more confident with his rhetoric and his public persona . "
" there have been lots of attempts to find cracks between them , " light added .
" i think it 's fanciful .
i see no cracks between them .
if medvedev was there just to hold the place for putin until he could run again , the danger was always that medvedev would like the taste of power and decide he wanted to keep it for himself .
i see no sign that this has happened – yet , at any rate .
" however , internationally , medvedev is still seen very much as an instrument of putin 's policy , " light concluded .
" although he fulfills all the roles the constitution affords to the president , i still think there is a very strong feeling internationally that putin is making the decisions and medvedev is simply doing his bidding . "
author : nick amies editor chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de pro-kremlin candidate wins sochi mayoral poll amid claims of fraud amid claims of fraud , anatoly pakhomov , the pro-kremlin candidate in mayoral polls for the russian city of sochi , won a landslide victory in an election seen as a test of the political climate under president medvedev .
-lrb- 27.04.2009 -rrb- critics call putin treason bill means to quash opposition human rights organizations have criticized a new bill that would abolish jury trials for people suspected of treason , hostage-taking , organizing mass disturbances and several other serious crimes .
-lrb- 18.12.2008 -rrb- opinion : russia 's power duo offers tenuous political stability it 's an action-packed week in russian politics with dmitry medvedev and vladimir putin taking up their respective offices .
yet everything is not as rosy as it might appear , says deutsche welle 's ingo mannteufel .
-lrb- 05.05.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live global 3000 we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live living in germany listen live immigration france plans to strip recent immigrants of their french citizenship if they commit serious crimes .
listen to the report postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
it simply is n't cricket are the gay games necessary ?
love parade - the end of an era oracle paul takes the plunge venturing into mafia turf europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
doubts remain over medvedev 's power and policy after first year in office -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 21.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de russia -pipe- 07.05.2009 doubts remain over medvedev 's power and policy after first year in office großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : medvedev has had a busy first 12 months in power russian president dmitry medvedev marks the one-year anniversary of his coming to power on may 7 .
twelve months on , questions and doubts still remain over his legitimacy and his policies . global opinion was divided when dmitry medvedev became russian president on may 7 last year .
some saw the new leader as a puppet of vladimir putin , his predecessor and the man who medvedev had served loyally throughout his two terms in office .
others saw the incoming president as a man who could drive russia down a more liberal and democratic road , and reverse decades of state oppression .
one year on – a year during which medvedev has waged his first war and has been thrust into the forefront of the worst global economic crisis for over 80 years – questions and doubts still remain over whether medvedev is really the man leading russia and if he is , whether he is the right man to reform his nation .
so to what extent has medvedev been successful in attempting to answer those questions leveled against him ?
" from medvedev 's point of view , it 's probably been quite a successful year , " sam greene , the deputy director for operations at the carnegie endowment for international peace in moscow , told deutsche welle .
" this dual system of government which was put together – with medvedev as president and putin as prime minister – has not been without its problems but it 's worked relatively well .
it 's kept the ruling elite relatively cohesive and both medvedev and putin have remained popular politically and are seen as relatively legitimate both at home and internationally .
so it has been a success story for the experiment – which is what this presidency with putin as prime minister is ; a huge political experiment .
" but from a policy perspective , in terms of the reforms that medvedev talked about prior to becoming president ; strengthening the rule of law , diversifying the economy – there really have n't been any policy successes , " he added .
" his rhetoric has been very good .
he speaks very ably on the rule of law , on democracy , on economic liberalism but there was a lot of good rhetoric from putin on these issues for eight years and we did n't see any progress in that direction from him either . "
criticism stems from lack of reform progress much of the analysis of medvedev 's first year in power focuses on these promised reforms and the progress – or lack thereof – that russia has made in the spheres of democracy , human rights and press freedom .
according to professor margot light , a russia expert at the center for the study of global governance at the london school of economics , medvedev has fallen short of the optimists ' expectations .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : medvedev was initially against khodorkovsky 's second trial " there have been many words but very few deeds , " she said .
" medvedev came to power with everyone saying that he was far more liberal than putin .
in fact there has been very little sign of this .
it 's only been in the last couple of weeks that he 's started to talk the liberal talk , by giving an interview to an opposition newspaper , for example .
but apart from that there have been very little progress .
there has been the second trial of -lrb- jailed russian oil oligarch mikhail -rrb- khodorkovsky , even though medvedev himself seemed to be against it ; the electronic media is no freer than it was before he came to power and the non-governmental organizations are still having a tough time so there a very few signs that he has made much progress on the democratization front . "
meanwhile , amnesty international declared on the president 's first anniversary that little had been done to improve human rights in russia since he came to power .
in a statement released on thursday , amnesty said that in some areas the situation has deteriorated despite initial improvements , specifically in relation to attacks against lawyers , journalists and opposition activists which it said were on the rise .
sam greene agrees .
" the situation with the press has n't got any better , in fact in some cases it has actually gotten worse , " he said .
" we 've seen more violence against the press .
this is not state-sponsored violence but it 's part of the current climate and it is part of the responsibility of the state to improve the atmosphere and to make clear that violence against the media will not be tolerated .
" in terms of democracy , there was some talk about reforms to the electoral laws but they 've been slow in coming , " he added .
" we saw municipal elections around the country in which the ruling party continued to dominate , continued to rely on administrative resources and its ability to manipulate the system .
we saw this very clearly in the recent mayoral elections in sochi just like month . "
leadership partners still hugely popular in russia despite these criticisms , neither medvedev nor putin has suffered a serious reversal in popularity within the populace .
in fact , both retain huge support within russia .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : medvedev is gaining the kind of star status putin enjoys " medvedev enjoys very high ratings but the problem has always been that russians appear to prefer order to justice , " light said .
" russians are in favor of tough measures if they believe that those tough measures actually make the country more orderly .
so the president and putin still enjoy enormous support from the population . "
sam greene admits that medvedev and putin may have seen a minor dip in popularity but this is mainly due to the current economic crisis , which has seen unemployment in russia increase and income decrease , and not because of any democratic or liberal failures .
but greene believes that the population does n't hold the leadership partners responsible for its economic woes .
“ the people do n't blame medvedev and putin for these problems nor do they really expect the government or medvedev to be able to do much about them , " he said .
" the people are quite pragmatic , if not cynical , about the russian government 's ability to deal with this crisis . "
while medvedev 's polices have been increasingly scrutinized since he came to power , the partnership agreement struck between the president and his prime minister has also come under close inspection during this first year .
questions remain over who really is the boss bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the partnership has to and will endure , say experts the state of the two men 's relationship has been the subject of intense speculation lately as medvedev has grown into his role and repeated reports of an imminent split between the two have begun to circulate .
but both sam greene and margot light believe the partnership will endure .
" i think there was a very clear arrangement between the two of them ahead of their presidential election under which it was agreed that they were playing on the same team and playing the same role which was to maintain the outward legitimacy and stability of the political system and to mediate conflict between the various groups in the elite , " greene said .
" i would n't expect them to work at cross purposes unless there was a real split between the powerful elite in the country .
there seems to be a broad consensus that this current system needs to continue so i think the relationship between medvedev and putin will remain stable .
the only thing that 's changed is that medvedev has become a bit more comfortable in the position , has begun to understand what he can and can not do and become more confident with his rhetoric and his public persona . "
" there have been lots of attempts to find cracks between them , " light added .
" i think it 's fanciful .
i see no cracks between them .
if medvedev was there just to hold the place for putin until he could run again , the danger was always that medvedev would like the taste of power and decide he wanted to keep it for himself .
i see no sign that this has happened – yet , at any rate .
" however , internationally , medvedev is still seen very much as an instrument of putin 's policy , " light concluded .
" although he fulfills all the roles the constitution affords to the president , i still think there is a very strong feeling internationally that putin is making the decisions and medvedev is simply doing his bidding . "
author : nick amies editor chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de pro-kremlin candidate wins sochi mayoral poll amid claims of fraud amid claims of fraud , anatoly pakhomov , the pro-kremlin candidate in mayoral polls for the russian city of sochi , won a landslide victory in an election seen as a test of the political climate under president medvedev .
-lrb- 27.04.2009 -rrb- critics call putin treason bill means to quash opposition human rights organizations have criticized a new bill that would abolish jury trials for people suspected of treason , hostage-taking , organizing mass disturbances and several other serious crimes .
-lrb- 18.12.2008 -rrb- opinion : russia 's power duo offers tenuous political stability it 's an action-packed week in russian politics with dmitry medvedev and vladimir putin taking up their respective offices .
yet everything is not as rosy as it might appear , says deutsche welle 's ingo mannteufel .
-lrb- 05.05.2008 -rrb- 9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
european ties the queen 's visit has proved to be a landmark in relations between the uk and ireland .
watch the video russia a moscow court postpones an appeal hearing in the case of former oil tycoon mikhail khodorkovsky .
listen to the audio health uk practioners are taking the eu to court over a ban on chinese herbal medicines .
listen to the audio postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
french burqa ban fits secular ideals is berlusconi giving italy a bad name ?
a dubious record for belgium inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
doubts remain over medvedev 's power and policy after first year in office -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 23.12.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de russia -pipe- 07.05.2009 doubts remain over medvedev 's power and policy after first year in office großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : medvedev has had a busy first 12 months in power russian president dmitry medvedev marks the one-year anniversary of his coming to power on may 7 .
twelve months on , questions and doubts still remain over his legitimacy and his policies . global opinion was divided when dmitry medvedev became russian president on may 7 last year .
some saw the new leader as a puppet of vladimir putin , his predecessor and the man who medvedev had served loyally throughout his two terms in office .
others saw the incoming president as a man who could drive russia down a more liberal and democratic road , and reverse decades of state oppression .
one year on – a year during which medvedev has waged his first war and has been thrust into the forefront of the worst global economic crisis for over 80 years – questions and doubts still remain over whether medvedev is really the man leading russia and if he is , whether he is the right man to reform his nation .
so to what extent has medvedev been successful in attempting to answer those questions leveled against him ?
" from medvedev 's point of view , it 's probably been quite a successful year , " sam greene , the deputy director for operations at the carnegie endowment for international peace in moscow , told deutsche welle .
" this dual system of government which was put together – with medvedev as president and putin as prime minister – has not been without its problems but it 's worked relatively well .
it 's kept the ruling elite relatively cohesive and both medvedev and putin have remained popular politically and are seen as relatively legitimate both at home and internationally .
so it has been a success story for the experiment – which is what this presidency with putin as prime minister is ; a huge political experiment .
" but from a policy perspective , in terms of the reforms that medvedev talked about prior to becoming president ; strengthening the rule of law , diversifying the economy – there really have n't been any policy successes , " he added .
" his rhetoric has been very good .
he speaks very ably on the rule of law , on democracy , on economic liberalism but there was a lot of good rhetoric from putin on these issues for eight years and we did n't see any progress in that direction from him either . "
criticism stems from lack of reform progress much of the analysis of medvedev 's first year in power focuses on these promised reforms and the progress – or lack thereof – that russia has made in the spheres of democracy , human rights and press freedom .
according to professor margot light , a russia expert at the center for the study of global governance at the london school of economics , medvedev has fallen short of the optimists ' expectations .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : medvedev was initially against khodorkovsky 's second trial " there have been many words but very few deeds , " she said .
" medvedev came to power with everyone saying that he was far more liberal than putin .
in fact there has been very little sign of this .
it 's only been in the last couple of weeks that he 's started to talk the liberal talk , by giving an interview to an opposition newspaper , for example .
but apart from that there have been very little progress .
there has been the second trial of -lrb- jailed russian oil oligarch mikhail -rrb- khodorkovsky , even though medvedev himself seemed to be against it ; the electronic media is no freer than it was before he came to power and the non-governmental organizations are still having a tough time so there a very few signs that he has made much progress on the democratization front . "
meanwhile , amnesty international declared on the president 's first anniversary that little had been done to improve human rights in russia since he came to power .
in a statement released on thursday , amnesty said that in some areas the situation has deteriorated despite initial improvements , specifically in relation to attacks against lawyers , journalists and opposition activists which it said were on the rise .
sam greene agrees .
" the situation with the press has n't got any better , in fact in some cases it has actually gotten worse , " he said .
" we 've seen more violence against the press .
this is not state-sponsored violence but it 's part of the current climate and it is part of the responsibility of the state to improve the atmosphere and to make clear that violence against the media will not be tolerated .
" in terms of democracy , there was some talk about reforms to the electoral laws but they 've been slow in coming , " he added .
" we saw municipal elections around the country in which the ruling party continued to dominate , continued to rely on administrative resources and its ability to manipulate the system .
we saw this very clearly in the recent mayoral elections in sochi just like month . "
leadership partners still hugely popular in russia despite these criticisms , neither medvedev nor putin has suffered a serious reversal in popularity within the populace .
in fact , both retain huge support within russia .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : medvedev is gaining the kind of star status putin enjoys " medvedev enjoys very high ratings but the problem has always been that russians appear to prefer order to justice , " light said .
" russians are in favor of tough measures if they believe that those tough measures actually make the country more orderly .
so the president and putin still enjoy enormous support from the population . "
sam greene admits that medvedev and putin may have seen a minor dip in popularity but this is mainly due to the current economic crisis , which has seen unemployment in russia increase and income decrease , and not because of any democratic or liberal failures .
but greene believes that the population does n't hold the leadership partners responsible for its economic woes .
“ the people do n't blame medvedev and putin for these problems nor do they really expect the government or medvedev to be able to do much about them , " he said .
" the people are quite pragmatic , if not cynical , about the russian government 's ability to deal with this crisis . "
while medvedev 's polices have been increasingly scrutinized since he came to power , the partnership agreement struck between the president and his prime minister has also come under close inspection during this first year .
questions remain over who really is the boss bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the partnership has to and will endure , say experts the state of the two men 's relationship has been the subject of intense speculation lately as medvedev has grown into his role and repeated reports of an imminent split between the two have begun to circulate .
but both sam greene and margot light believe the partnership will endure .
" i think there was a very clear arrangement between the two of them ahead of their presidential election under which it was agreed that they were playing on the same team and playing the same role which was to maintain the outward legitimacy and stability of the political system and to mediate conflict between the various groups in the elite , " greene said .
" i would n't expect them to work at cross purposes unless there was a real split between the powerful elite in the country .
there seems to be a broad consensus that this current system needs to continue so i think the relationship between medvedev and putin will remain stable .
the only thing that 's changed is that medvedev has become a bit more comfortable in the position , has begun to understand what he can and can not do and become more confident with his rhetoric and his public persona . "
" there have been lots of attempts to find cracks between them , " light added .
" i think it 's fanciful .
i see no cracks between them .
if medvedev was there just to hold the place for putin until he could run again , the danger was always that medvedev would like the taste of power and decide he wanted to keep it for himself .
i see no sign that this has happened – yet , at any rate .
" however , internationally , medvedev is still seen very much as an instrument of putin 's policy , " light concluded .
" although he fulfills all the roles the constitution affords to the president , i still think there is a very strong feeling internationally that putin is making the decisions and medvedev is simply doing his bidding . "
author : nick amies editor chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de pro-kremlin candidate wins sochi mayoral poll amid claims of fraud amid claims of fraud , anatoly pakhomov , the pro-kremlin candidate in mayoral polls for the russian city of sochi , won a landslide victory in an election seen as a test of the political climate under president medvedev .
-lrb- 27.04.2009 -rrb- critics call putin treason bill means to quash opposition human rights organizations have criticized a new bill that would abolish jury trials for people suspected of treason , hostage-taking , organizing mass disturbances and several other serious crimes .
-lrb- 18.12.2008 -rrb- opinion : russia 's power duo offers tenuous political stability it 's an action-packed week in russian politics with dmitry medvedev and vladimir putin taking up their respective offices .
yet everything is not as rosy as it might appear , says deutsche welle 's ingo mannteufel .
-lrb- 05.05.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle quo vadis bosnia ?
betancourt book sparks controversy in france technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
doubts remain over medvedev 's power and policy after first year in office -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.10.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de russia -pipe- 07.05.2009 doubts remain over medvedev 's power and policy after first year in office großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : medvedev has had a busy first 12 months in power russian president dmitry medvedev marks the one-year anniversary of his coming to power on may 7 .
twelve months on , questions and doubts still remain over his legitimacy and his policies . global opinion was divided when dmitry medvedev became russian president on may 7 last year .
some saw the new leader as a puppet of vladimir putin , his predecessor and the man who medvedev had served loyally throughout his two terms in office .
others saw the incoming president as a man who could drive russia down a more liberal and democratic road , and reverse decades of state oppression .
one year on – a year during which medvedev has waged his first war and has been thrust into the forefront of the worst global economic crisis for over 80 years – questions and doubts still remain over whether medvedev is really the man leading russia and if he is , whether he is the right man to reform his nation .
so to what extent has medvedev been successful in attempting to answer those questions leveled against him ?
" from medvedev 's point of view , it 's probably been quite a successful year , " sam greene , the deputy director for operations at the carnegie endowment for international peace in moscow , told deutsche welle .
" this dual system of government which was put together – with medvedev as president and putin as prime minister – has not been without its problems but it 's worked relatively well .
it 's kept the ruling elite relatively cohesive and both medvedev and putin have remained popular politically and are seen as relatively legitimate both at home and internationally .
so it has been a success story for the experiment – which is what this presidency with putin as prime minister is ; a huge political experiment .
" but from a policy perspective , in terms of the reforms that medvedev talked about prior to becoming president ; strengthening the rule of law , diversifying the economy – there really have n't been any policy successes , " he added .
" his rhetoric has been very good .
he speaks very ably on the rule of law , on democracy , on economic liberalism but there was a lot of good rhetoric from putin on these issues for eight years and we did n't see any progress in that direction from him either . "
criticism stems from lack of reform progress much of the analysis of medvedev 's first year in power focuses on these promised reforms and the progress – or lack thereof – that russia has made in the spheres of democracy , human rights and press freedom .
according to professor margot light , a russia expert at the center for the study of global governance at the london school of economics , medvedev has fallen short of the optimists ' expectations .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : medvedev was initially against khodorkovsky 's second trial " there have been many words but very few deeds , " she said .
" medvedev came to power with everyone saying that he was far more liberal than putin .
in fact there has been very little sign of this .
it 's only been in the last couple of weeks that he 's started to talk the liberal talk , by giving an interview to an opposition newspaper , for example .
but apart from that there have been very little progress .
there has been the second trial of -lrb- jailed russian oil oligarch mikhail -rrb- khodorkovsky , even though medvedev himself seemed to be against it ; the electronic media is no freer than it was before he came to power and the non-governmental organizations are still having a tough time so there a very few signs that he has made much progress on the democratization front . "
meanwhile , amnesty international declared on the president 's first anniversary that little had been done to improve human rights in russia since he came to power .
in a statement released on thursday , amnesty said that in some areas the situation has deteriorated despite initial improvements , specifically in relation to attacks against lawyers , journalists and opposition activists which it said were on the rise .
sam greene agrees .
" the situation with the press has n't got any better , in fact in some cases it has actually gotten worse , " he said .
" we 've seen more violence against the press .
this is not state-sponsored violence but it 's part of the current climate and it is part of the responsibility of the state to improve the atmosphere and to make clear that violence against the media will not be tolerated .
" in terms of democracy , there was some talk about reforms to the electoral laws but they 've been slow in coming , " he added .
" we saw municipal elections around the country in which the ruling party continued to dominate , continued to rely on administrative resources and its ability to manipulate the system .
we saw this very clearly in the recent mayoral elections in sochi just like month . "
leadership partners still hugely popular in russia despite these criticisms , neither medvedev nor putin has suffered a serious reversal in popularity within the populace .
in fact , both retain huge support within russia .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : medvedev is gaining the kind of star status putin enjoys " medvedev enjoys very high ratings but the problem has always been that russians appear to prefer order to justice , " light said .
" russians are in favor of tough measures if they believe that those tough measures actually make the country more orderly .
so the president and putin still enjoy enormous support from the population . "
sam greene admits that medvedev and putin may have seen a minor dip in popularity but this is mainly due to the current economic crisis , which has seen unemployment in russia increase and income decrease , and not because of any democratic or liberal failures .
but greene believes that the population does n't hold the leadership partners responsible for its economic woes .
“ the people do n't blame medvedev and putin for these problems nor do they really expect the government or medvedev to be able to do much about them , " he said .
" the people are quite pragmatic , if not cynical , about the russian government 's ability to deal with this crisis . "
while medvedev 's polices have been increasingly scrutinized since he came to power , the partnership agreement struck between the president and his prime minister has also come under close inspection during this first year .
questions remain over who really is the boss bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the partnership has to and will endure , say experts the state of the two men 's relationship has been the subject of intense speculation lately as medvedev has grown into his role and repeated reports of an imminent split between the two have begun to circulate .
but both sam greene and margot light believe the partnership will endure .
" i think there was a very clear arrangement between the two of them ahead of their presidential election under which it was agreed that they were playing on the same team and playing the same role which was to maintain the outward legitimacy and stability of the political system and to mediate conflict between the various groups in the elite , " greene said .
" i would n't expect them to work at cross purposes unless there was a real split between the powerful elite in the country .
there seems to be a broad consensus that this current system needs to continue so i think the relationship between medvedev and putin will remain stable .
the only thing that 's changed is that medvedev has become a bit more comfortable in the position , has begun to understand what he can and can not do and become more confident with his rhetoric and his public persona . "
" there have been lots of attempts to find cracks between them , " light added .
" i think it 's fanciful .
i see no cracks between them .
if medvedev was there just to hold the place for putin until he could run again , the danger was always that medvedev would like the taste of power and decide he wanted to keep it for himself .
i see no sign that this has happened – yet , at any rate .
" however , internationally , medvedev is still seen very much as an instrument of putin 's policy , " light concluded .
" although he fulfills all the roles the constitution affords to the president , i still think there is a very strong feeling internationally that putin is making the decisions and medvedev is simply doing his bidding . "
author : nick amies editor chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de pro-kremlin candidate wins sochi mayoral poll amid claims of fraud amid claims of fraud , anatoly pakhomov , the pro-kremlin candidate in mayoral polls for the russian city of sochi , won a landslide victory in an election seen as a test of the political climate under president medvedev .
-lrb- 27.04.2009 -rrb- critics call putin treason bill means to quash opposition human rights organizations have criticized a new bill that would abolish jury trials for people suspected of treason , hostage-taking , organizing mass disturbances and several other serious crimes .
-lrb- 18.12.2008 -rrb- opinion : russia 's power duo offers tenuous political stability it 's an action-packed week in russian politics with dmitry medvedev and vladimir putin taking up their respective offices .
yet everything is not as rosy as it might appear , says deutsche welle 's ingo mannteufel .
-lrb- 05.05.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live tomorrow today we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live spectrum listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
quo vadis bosnia ?
betancourt book sparks controversy in france technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
doubts remain over medvedev 's power and policy after first year in office -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 21.11.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de russia -pipe- 07.05.2009 doubts remain over medvedev 's power and policy after first year in office großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : medvedev has had a busy first 12 months in power russian president dmitry medvedev marks the one-year anniversary of his coming to power on may 7 .
twelve months on , questions and doubts still remain over his legitimacy and his policies . global opinion was divided when dmitry medvedev became russian president on may 7 last year .
some saw the new leader as a puppet of vladimir putin , his predecessor and the man who medvedev had served loyally throughout his two terms in office .
others saw the incoming president as a man who could drive russia down a more liberal and democratic road , and reverse decades of state oppression .
one year on – a year during which medvedev has waged his first war and has been thrust into the forefront of the worst global economic crisis for over 80 years – questions and doubts still remain over whether medvedev is really the man leading russia and if he is , whether he is the right man to reform his nation .
so to what extent has medvedev been successful in attempting to answer those questions leveled against him ?
" from medvedev 's point of view , it 's probably been quite a successful year , " sam greene , the deputy director for operations at the carnegie endowment for international peace in moscow , told deutsche welle .
" this dual system of government which was put together – with medvedev as president and putin as prime minister – has not been without its problems but it 's worked relatively well .
it 's kept the ruling elite relatively cohesive and both medvedev and putin have remained popular politically and are seen as relatively legitimate both at home and internationally .
so it has been a success story for the experiment – which is what this presidency with putin as prime minister is ; a huge political experiment .
" but from a policy perspective , in terms of the reforms that medvedev talked about prior to becoming president ; strengthening the rule of law , diversifying the economy – there really have n't been any policy successes , " he added .
" his rhetoric has been very good .
he speaks very ably on the rule of law , on democracy , on economic liberalism but there was a lot of good rhetoric from putin on these issues for eight years and we did n't see any progress in that direction from him either . "
criticism stems from lack of reform progress much of the analysis of medvedev 's first year in power focuses on these promised reforms and the progress – or lack thereof – that russia has made in the spheres of democracy , human rights and press freedom .
according to professor margot light , a russia expert at the center for the study of global governance at the london school of economics , medvedev has fallen short of the optimists ' expectations .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : medvedev was initially against khodorkovsky 's second trial " there have been many words but very few deeds , " she said .
" medvedev came to power with everyone saying that he was far more liberal than putin .
in fact there has been very little sign of this .
it 's only been in the last couple of weeks that he 's started to talk the liberal talk , by giving an interview to an opposition newspaper , for example .
but apart from that there have been very little progress .
there has been the second trial of -lrb- jailed russian oil oligarch mikhail -rrb- khodorkovsky , even though medvedev himself seemed to be against it ; the electronic media is no freer than it was before he came to power and the non-governmental organizations are still having a tough time so there a very few signs that he has made much progress on the democratization front . "
meanwhile , amnesty international declared on the president 's first anniversary that little had been done to improve human rights in russia since he came to power .
in a statement released on thursday , amnesty said that in some areas the situation has deteriorated despite initial improvements , specifically in relation to attacks against lawyers , journalists and opposition activists which it said were on the rise .
sam greene agrees .
" the situation with the press has n't got any better , in fact in some cases it has actually gotten worse , " he said .
" we 've seen more violence against the press .
this is not state-sponsored violence but it 's part of the current climate and it is part of the responsibility of the state to improve the atmosphere and to make clear that violence against the media will not be tolerated .
" in terms of democracy , there was some talk about reforms to the electoral laws but they 've been slow in coming , " he added .
" we saw municipal elections around the country in which the ruling party continued to dominate , continued to rely on administrative resources and its ability to manipulate the system .
we saw this very clearly in the recent mayoral elections in sochi just like month . "
leadership partners still hugely popular in russia despite these criticisms , neither medvedev nor putin has suffered a serious reversal in popularity within the populace .
in fact , both retain huge support within russia .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : medvedev is gaining the kind of star status putin enjoys " medvedev enjoys very high ratings but the problem has always been that russians appear to prefer order to justice , " light said .
" russians are in favor of tough measures if they believe that those tough measures actually make the country more orderly .
so the president and putin still enjoy enormous support from the population . "
sam greene admits that medvedev and putin may have seen a minor dip in popularity but this is mainly due to the current economic crisis , which has seen unemployment in russia increase and income decrease , and not because of any democratic or liberal failures .
but greene believes that the population does n't hold the leadership partners responsible for its economic woes .
“ the people do n't blame medvedev and putin for these problems nor do they really expect the government or medvedev to be able to do much about them , " he said .
" the people are quite pragmatic , if not cynical , about the russian government 's ability to deal with this crisis . "
while medvedev 's polices have been increasingly scrutinized since he came to power , the partnership agreement struck between the president and his prime minister has also come under close inspection during this first year .
questions remain over who really is the boss bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the partnership has to and will endure , say experts the state of the two men 's relationship has been the subject of intense speculation lately as medvedev has grown into his role and repeated reports of an imminent split between the two have begun to circulate .
but both sam greene and margot light believe the partnership will endure .
" i think there was a very clear arrangement between the two of them ahead of their presidential election under which it was agreed that they were playing on the same team and playing the same role which was to maintain the outward legitimacy and stability of the political system and to mediate conflict between the various groups in the elite , " greene said .
" i would n't expect them to work at cross purposes unless there was a real split between the powerful elite in the country .
there seems to be a broad consensus that this current system needs to continue so i think the relationship between medvedev and putin will remain stable .
the only thing that 's changed is that medvedev has become a bit more comfortable in the position , has begun to understand what he can and can not do and become more confident with his rhetoric and his public persona . "
" there have been lots of attempts to find cracks between them , " light added .
" i think it 's fanciful .
i see no cracks between them .
if medvedev was there just to hold the place for putin until he could run again , the danger was always that medvedev would like the taste of power and decide he wanted to keep it for himself .
i see no sign that this has happened – yet , at any rate .
" however , internationally , medvedev is still seen very much as an instrument of putin 's policy , " light concluded .
" although he fulfills all the roles the constitution affords to the president , i still think there is a very strong feeling internationally that putin is making the decisions and medvedev is simply doing his bidding . "
author : nick amies editor chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de pro-kremlin candidate wins sochi mayoral poll amid claims of fraud amid claims of fraud , anatoly pakhomov , the pro-kremlin candidate in mayoral polls for the russian city of sochi , won a landslide victory in an election seen as a test of the political climate under president medvedev .
-lrb- 27.04.2009 -rrb- critics call putin treason bill means to quash opposition human rights organizations have criticized a new bill that would abolish jury trials for people suspected of treason , hostage-taking , organizing mass disturbances and several other serious crimes .
-lrb- 18.12.2008 -rrb- opinion : russia 's power duo offers tenuous political stability it 's an action-packed week in russian politics with dmitry medvedev and vladimir putin taking up their respective offices .
yet everything is not as rosy as it might appear , says deutsche welle 's ingo mannteufel .
-lrb- 05.05.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live concert hour leipzig 2 listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
doubts remain over medvedev 's power and policy after first year in office -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 14.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de russia -pipe- 07.05.2009 doubts remain over medvedev 's power and policy after first year in office großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : medvedev has had a busy first 12 months in power russian president dmitry medvedev marks the one-year anniversary of his coming to power on may 7 .
twelve months on , questions and doubts still remain over his legitimacy and his policies . global opinion was divided when dmitry medvedev became russian president on may 7 last year .
some saw the new leader as a puppet of vladimir putin , his predecessor and the man who medvedev had served loyally throughout his two terms in office .
others saw the incoming president as a man who could drive russia down a more liberal and democratic road , and reverse decades of state oppression .
one year on – a year during which medvedev has waged his first war and has been thrust into the forefront of the worst global economic crisis for over 80 years – questions and doubts still remain over whether medvedev is really the man leading russia and if he is , whether he is the right man to reform his nation .
so to what extent has medvedev been successful in attempting to answer those questions leveled against him ?
" from medvedev 's point of view , it 's probably been quite a successful year , " sam greene , the deputy director for operations at the carnegie endowment for international peace in moscow , told deutsche welle .
" this dual system of government which was put together – with medvedev as president and putin as prime minister – has not been without its problems but it 's worked relatively well .
it 's kept the ruling elite relatively cohesive and both medvedev and putin have remained popular politically and are seen as relatively legitimate both at home and internationally .
so it has been a success story for the experiment – which is what this presidency with putin as prime minister is ; a huge political experiment .
" but from a policy perspective , in terms of the reforms that medvedev talked about prior to becoming president ; strengthening the rule of law , diversifying the economy – there really have n't been any policy successes , " he added .
" his rhetoric has been very good .
he speaks very ably on the rule of law , on democracy , on economic liberalism but there was a lot of good rhetoric from putin on these issues for eight years and we did n't see any progress in that direction from him either . "
criticism stems from lack of reform progress much of the analysis of medvedev 's first year in power focuses on these promised reforms and the progress – or lack thereof – that russia has made in the spheres of democracy , human rights and press freedom .
according to professor margot light , a russia expert at the center for the study of global governance at the london school of economics , medvedev has fallen short of the optimists ' expectations .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : medvedev was initially against khodorkovsky 's second trial " there have been many words but very few deeds , " she said .
" medvedev came to power with everyone saying that he was far more liberal than putin .
in fact there has been very little sign of this .
it 's only been in the last couple of weeks that he 's started to talk the liberal talk , by giving an interview to an opposition newspaper , for example .
but apart from that there have been very little progress .
there has been the second trial of -lrb- jailed russian oil oligarch mikhail -rrb- khodorkovsky , even though medvedev himself seemed to be against it ; the electronic media is no freer than it was before he came to power and the non-governmental organizations are still having a tough time so there a very few signs that he has made much progress on the democratization front . "
meanwhile , amnesty international declared on the president 's first anniversary that little had been done to improve human rights in russia since he came to power .
in a statement released on thursday , amnesty said that in some areas the situation has deteriorated despite initial improvements , specifically in relation to attacks against lawyers , journalists and opposition activists which it said were on the rise .
sam greene agrees .
" the situation with the press has n't got any better , in fact in some cases it has actually gotten worse , " he said .
" we 've seen more violence against the press .
this is not state-sponsored violence but it 's part of the current climate and it is part of the responsibility of the state to improve the atmosphere and to make clear that violence against the media will not be tolerated .
" in terms of democracy , there was some talk about reforms to the electoral laws but they 've been slow in coming , " he added .
" we saw municipal elections around the country in which the ruling party continued to dominate , continued to rely on administrative resources and its ability to manipulate the system .
we saw this very clearly in the recent mayoral elections in sochi just like month . "
leadership partners still hugely popular in russia despite these criticisms , neither medvedev nor putin has suffered a serious reversal in popularity within the populace .
in fact , both retain huge support within russia .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : medvedev is gaining the kind of star status putin enjoys " medvedev enjoys very high ratings but the problem has always been that russians appear to prefer order to justice , " light said .
" russians are in favor of tough measures if they believe that those tough measures actually make the country more orderly .
so the president and putin still enjoy enormous support from the population . "
sam greene admits that medvedev and putin may have seen a minor dip in popularity but this is mainly due to the current economic crisis , which has seen unemployment in russia increase and income decrease , and not because of any democratic or liberal failures .
but greene believes that the population does n't hold the leadership partners responsible for its economic woes .
“ the people do n't blame medvedev and putin for these problems nor do they really expect the government or medvedev to be able to do much about them , " he said .
" the people are quite pragmatic , if not cynical , about the russian government 's ability to deal with this crisis . "
while medvedev 's polices have been increasingly scrutinized since he came to power , the partnership agreement struck between the president and his prime minister has also come under close inspection during this first year .
questions remain over who really is the boss bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the partnership has to and will endure , say experts the state of the two men 's relationship has been the subject of intense speculation lately as medvedev has grown into his role and repeated reports of an imminent split between the two have begun to circulate .
but both sam greene and margot light believe the partnership will endure .
" i think there was a very clear arrangement between the two of them ahead of their presidential election under which it was agreed that they were playing on the same team and playing the same role which was to maintain the outward legitimacy and stability of the political system and to mediate conflict between the various groups in the elite , " greene said .
" i would n't expect them to work at cross purposes unless there was a real split between the powerful elite in the country .
there seems to be a broad consensus that this current system needs to continue so i think the relationship between medvedev and putin will remain stable .
the only thing that 's changed is that medvedev has become a bit more comfortable in the position , has begun to understand what he can and can not do and become more confident with his rhetoric and his public persona . "
" there have been lots of attempts to find cracks between them , " light added .
" i think it 's fanciful .
i see no cracks between them .
if medvedev was there just to hold the place for putin until he could run again , the danger was always that medvedev would like the taste of power and decide he wanted to keep it for himself .
i see no sign that this has happened – yet , at any rate .
" however , internationally , medvedev is still seen very much as an instrument of putin 's policy , " light concluded .
" although he fulfills all the roles the constitution affords to the president , i still think there is a very strong feeling internationally that putin is making the decisions and medvedev is simply doing his bidding . "
author : nick amies editor chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de pro-kremlin candidate wins sochi mayoral poll amid claims of fraud amid claims of fraud , anatoly pakhomov , the pro-kremlin candidate in mayoral polls for the russian city of sochi , won a landslide victory in an election seen as a test of the political climate under president medvedev .
-lrb- 27.04.2009 -rrb- critics call putin treason bill means to quash opposition human rights organizations have criticized a new bill that would abolish jury trials for people suspected of treason , hostage-taking , organizing mass disturbances and several other serious crimes .
-lrb- 18.12.2008 -rrb- opinion : russia 's power duo offers tenuous political stability it 's an action-packed week in russian politics with dmitry medvedev and vladimir putin taking up their respective offices .
yet everything is not as rosy as it might appear , says deutsche welle 's ingo mannteufel .
-lrb- 05.05.2008 -rrb- 9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - news with in depth we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
unemployment facing high unemployment at home , many young spaniards are trying their luck in germany .
watch the video tour de danger why have there been so many violent crashes at this year 's tour de france ?
listen to the audio world war ii nazi leader adolf hitler 's austrian birthplace kicks him off its list of honorary citizens .
listen to the audio inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
fiat reported to have plans to shut down german opel plant -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de auto industry -pipe- 07.05.2009 fiat reported to have plans to shut down german opel plant großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : at this stage , the road fiat plans to take in its proposed opel takeover is unclear italian auto group fiat could shut down as many as five factories , including one in germany , as part of its plans to take over the european operations of struggling us auto giant , general motors . according to media reports that cite fiat 's proposal to the german government from earlier this week , the opel plant in kaiserslautern would cease operations under fiat .
plants in bochum and the opel headquarters at ruesselsheim would , according to the reports , be scaled down , as part of " project phoenix " .
one gm plant in england , one in austria , as well as two italian factories would also be part of the shutdown list , according to the reports .
however , this contradicts fiat ceo sergio marchionne 's denial earlier this week that any of opel 's four german plans would be closed . job cuts " inevitable " - no matter who takes over bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : opel employees ' fate is still very much up in the air armin schild , a member of opel 's supervisory board , said job cuts would be inevitable in a takeover of opel .
job cut plans are one of the key criteria on which the suitability of potential investors in opel will be judged , according to a checklist drawn up by vice-chancellor frank-walter steinmeier -lrb- spd -rrb- , who will is to challenge chancellor angela merkel -lrb- cdu -rrb- in september 's federal election .
schild , who represents labor union ig metall on the board , also said the austrian-canadian car parts maker magna has so far presented a more concrete takeover proposal .
media reports have said that possible partners for magna include russian carmaker gaz as well as russia 's sberbank .
gaz and its owner , billionaire oleg deripaska , have repeatedly denied interest .
general motors teeters on bridge of bankruptcy meanwhile , opel 's parent company , general motors , has announced a quarterly net loss of six billion dollars -lrb- 4.5 billion euros -rrb- - its eighth quarterly loss in a row .
it also announced a loss of 2 billion dollars -lrb- 1.5 billion euros -rrb- from its european operations .
revenue dropped by 47 percent , to 22.4 billion dollars .
gm , the largest us carmaker , is currently operating under a us federal bail-out plan .
it is threatened with bankruptcy , as has already happened to its competitor , chrysler .
us president barack obama has given gm an end-of-may deadline for a new restructuring plan to be implemented . cg / dpa , reuters / ap / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de fiat denies it plans to cut 18,000 jobs , close factories fiat has denied a german news report that it plans to cut 18,000 jobs and close 10 factories in europe , should it succeed in its bid to take over gm 's european operations .
-lrb- 06.05.2009 -rrb- fiat boss commits to opel plants in germany the head of italian automaker fiat , sergio marchionne , has said in an interview he wants to keep open all four opel plants in germany after a possible takeover of the struggling carmaker .
-lrb- 05.05.2009 -rrb- magna meets with guttenberg over possible opel deal representatives from the canadian-austrian car parts supplier have presented germany 's economics minister with a draft plan for bailing out opel .
but the troubled carmaker remains a bone of contention .
-lrb- 28.04.2009 -rrb- 9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - news with in depth we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live spectrum more efficient nuclear power , qr code coins , a chemicals in space and the future of nasa 's employees listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
digital street art artists in berlin reinvent graffiti by projecting light onto buildings using computer systems .
watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
fiat reported to have plans to shut down german opel plant -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 26.01.2011 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de auto industry -pipe- 07.05.2009 fiat reported to have plans to shut down german opel plant großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : at this stage , the road fiat plans to take in its proposed opel takeover is unclear italian auto group fiat could shut down as many as five factories , including one in germany , as part of its plans to take over the european operations of struggling us auto giant , general motors . according to media reports that cite fiat 's proposal to the german government from earlier this week , the opel plant in kaiserslautern would cease operations under fiat .
plants in bochum and the opel headquarters at ruesselsheim would , according to the reports , be scaled down , as part of " project phoenix " .
one gm plant in england , one in austria , as well as two italian factories would also be part of the shutdown list , according to the reports .
however , this contradicts fiat ceo sergio marchionne 's denial earlier this week that any of opel 's four german plans would be closed . job cuts " inevitable " - no matter who takes over bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : opel employees ' fate is still very much up in the air armin schild , a member of opel 's supervisory board , said job cuts would be inevitable in a takeover of opel .
job cut plans are one of the key criteria on which the suitability of potential investors in opel will be judged , according to a checklist drawn up by vice-chancellor frank-walter steinmeier -lrb- spd -rrb- , who will is to challenge chancellor angela merkel -lrb- cdu -rrb- in september 's federal election .
schild , who represents labor union ig metall on the board , also said the austrian-canadian car parts maker magna has so far presented a more concrete takeover proposal .
media reports have said that possible partners for magna include russian carmaker gaz as well as russia 's sberbank .
gaz and its owner , billionaire oleg deripaska , have repeatedly denied interest .
general motors teeters on bridge of bankruptcy meanwhile , opel 's parent company , general motors , has announced a quarterly net loss of six billion dollars -lrb- 4.5 billion euros -rrb- - its eighth quarterly loss in a row .
it also announced a loss of 2 billion dollars -lrb- 1.5 billion euros -rrb- from its european operations .
revenue dropped by 47 percent , to 22.4 billion dollars .
gm , the largest us carmaker , is currently operating under a us federal bail-out plan .
it is threatened with bankruptcy , as has already happened to its competitor , chrysler .
us president barack obama has given gm an end-of-may deadline for a new restructuring plan to be implemented . cg / dpa , reuters / ap / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de fiat denies it plans to cut 18,000 jobs , close factories fiat has denied a german news report that it plans to cut 18,000 jobs and close 10 factories in europe , should it succeed in its bid to take over gm 's european operations .
-lrb- 06.05.2009 -rrb- fiat boss commits to opel plants in germany the head of italian automaker fiat , sergio marchionne , has said in an interview he wants to keep open all four opel plants in germany after a possible takeover of the struggling carmaker .
-lrb- 05.05.2009 -rrb- magna meets with guttenberg over possible opel deal representatives from the canadian-austrian car parts supplier have presented germany 's economics minister with a draft plan for bailing out opel .
but the troubled carmaker remains a bone of contention .
-lrb- 28.04.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live global 3000 we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
fiat reported to have plans to shut down german opel plant -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 20.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de auto industry -pipe- 07.05.2009 fiat reported to have plans to shut down german opel plant großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : at this stage , the road fiat plans to take in its proposed opel takeover is unclear italian auto group fiat could shut down as many as five factories , including one in germany , as part of its plans to take over the european operations of struggling us auto giant , general motors . according to media reports that cite fiat 's proposal to the german government from earlier this week , the opel plant in kaiserslautern would cease operations under fiat .
plants in bochum and the opel headquarters at ruesselsheim would , according to the reports , be scaled down , as part of " project phoenix " .
one gm plant in england , one in austria , as well as two italian factories would also be part of the shutdown list , according to the reports .
however , this contradicts fiat ceo sergio marchionne 's denial earlier this week that any of opel 's four german plans would be closed . job cuts " inevitable " - no matter who takes over bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : opel employees ' fate is still very much up in the air armin schild , a member of opel 's supervisory board , said job cuts would be inevitable in a takeover of opel .
job cut plans are one of the key criteria on which the suitability of potential investors in opel will be judged , according to a checklist drawn up by vice-chancellor frank-walter steinmeier -lrb- spd -rrb- , who will is to challenge chancellor angela merkel -lrb- cdu -rrb- in september 's federal election .
schild , who represents labor union ig metall on the board , also said the austrian-canadian car parts maker magna has so far presented a more concrete takeover proposal .
media reports have said that possible partners for magna include russian carmaker gaz as well as russia 's sberbank .
gaz and its owner , billionaire oleg deripaska , have repeatedly denied interest .
general motors teeters on bridge of bankruptcy meanwhile , opel 's parent company , general motors , has announced a quarterly net loss of six billion dollars -lrb- 4.5 billion euros -rrb- - its eighth quarterly loss in a row .
it also announced a loss of 2 billion dollars -lrb- 1.5 billion euros -rrb- from its european operations .
revenue dropped by 47 percent , to 22.4 billion dollars .
gm , the largest us carmaker , is currently operating under a us federal bail-out plan .
it is threatened with bankruptcy , as has already happened to its competitor , chrysler .
us president barack obama has given gm an end-of-may deadline for a new restructuring plan to be implemented . cg / dpa , reuters / ap / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de fiat denies it plans to cut 18,000 jobs , close factories fiat has denied a german news report that it plans to cut 18,000 jobs and close 10 factories in europe , should it succeed in its bid to take over gm 's european operations .
-lrb- 06.05.2009 -rrb- fiat boss commits to opel plants in germany the head of italian automaker fiat , sergio marchionne , has said in an interview he wants to keep open all four opel plants in germany after a possible takeover of the struggling carmaker .
-lrb- 05.05.2009 -rrb- magna meets with guttenberg over possible opel deal representatives from the canadian-austrian car parts supplier have presented germany 's economics minister with a draft plan for bailing out opel .
but the troubled carmaker remains a bone of contention .
-lrb- 28.04.2009 -rrb- 9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
culture west german photographer thomas hoepker documented life abroad - in east germany - in the 1970s .
watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
fiat reported to have plans to shut down german opel plant -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 23.12.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de auto industry -pipe- 07.05.2009 fiat reported to have plans to shut down german opel plant großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : at this stage , the road fiat plans to take in its proposed opel takeover is unclear italian auto group fiat could shut down as many as five factories , including one in germany , as part of its plans to take over the european operations of struggling us auto giant , general motors . according to media reports that cite fiat 's proposal to the german government from earlier this week , the opel plant in kaiserslautern would cease operations under fiat .
plants in bochum and the opel headquarters at ruesselsheim would , according to the reports , be scaled down , as part of " project phoenix " .
one gm plant in england , one in austria , as well as two italian factories would also be part of the shutdown list , according to the reports .
however , this contradicts fiat ceo sergio marchionne 's denial earlier this week that any of opel 's four german plans would be closed . job cuts " inevitable " - no matter who takes over bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : opel employees ' fate is still very much up in the air armin schild , a member of opel 's supervisory board , said job cuts would be inevitable in a takeover of opel .
job cut plans are one of the key criteria on which the suitability of potential investors in opel will be judged , according to a checklist drawn up by vice-chancellor frank-walter steinmeier -lrb- spd -rrb- , who will is to challenge chancellor angela merkel -lrb- cdu -rrb- in september 's federal election .
schild , who represents labor union ig metall on the board , also said the austrian-canadian car parts maker magna has so far presented a more concrete takeover proposal .
media reports have said that possible partners for magna include russian carmaker gaz as well as russia 's sberbank .
gaz and its owner , billionaire oleg deripaska , have repeatedly denied interest .
general motors teeters on bridge of bankruptcy meanwhile , opel 's parent company , general motors , has announced a quarterly net loss of six billion dollars -lrb- 4.5 billion euros -rrb- - its eighth quarterly loss in a row .
it also announced a loss of 2 billion dollars -lrb- 1.5 billion euros -rrb- from its european operations .
revenue dropped by 47 percent , to 22.4 billion dollars .
gm , the largest us carmaker , is currently operating under a us federal bail-out plan .
it is threatened with bankruptcy , as has already happened to its competitor , chrysler .
us president barack obama has given gm an end-of-may deadline for a new restructuring plan to be implemented . cg / dpa , reuters / ap / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de fiat denies it plans to cut 18,000 jobs , close factories fiat has denied a german news report that it plans to cut 18,000 jobs and close 10 factories in europe , should it succeed in its bid to take over gm 's european operations .
-lrb- 06.05.2009 -rrb- fiat boss commits to opel plants in germany the head of italian automaker fiat , sergio marchionne , has said in an interview he wants to keep open all four opel plants in germany after a possible takeover of the struggling carmaker .
-lrb- 05.05.2009 -rrb- magna meets with guttenberg over possible opel deal representatives from the canadian-austrian car parts supplier have presented germany 's economics minister with a draft plan for bailing out opel .
but the troubled carmaker remains a bone of contention .
-lrb- 28.04.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
travel passau is called the three river city , but it is just as famous for its baroque splendor .
passau - baroque facades and vibrant arts watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
fiat reported to have plans to shut down german opel plant -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 31.10.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de auto industry -pipe- 07.05.2009 fiat reported to have plans to shut down german opel plant großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : at this stage , the road fiat plans to take in its proposed opel takeover is unclear italian auto group fiat could shut down as many as five factories , including one in germany , as part of its plans to take over the european operations of struggling us auto giant , general motors . according to media reports that cite fiat 's proposal to the german government from earlier this week , the opel plant in kaiserslautern would cease operations under fiat .
plants in bochum and the opel headquarters at ruesselsheim would , according to the reports , be scaled down , as part of " project phoenix " .
one gm plant in england , one in austria , as well as two italian factories would also be part of the shutdown list , according to the reports .
however , this contradicts fiat ceo sergio marchionne 's denial earlier this week that any of opel 's four german plans would be closed . job cuts " inevitable " - no matter who takes over bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : opel employees ' fate is still very much up in the air armin schild , a member of opel 's supervisory board , said job cuts would be inevitable in a takeover of opel .
job cut plans are one of the key criteria on which the suitability of potential investors in opel will be judged , according to a checklist drawn up by vice-chancellor frank-walter steinmeier -lrb- spd -rrb- , who will is to challenge chancellor angela merkel -lrb- cdu -rrb- in september 's federal election .
schild , who represents labor union ig metall on the board , also said the austrian-canadian car parts maker magna has so far presented a more concrete takeover proposal .
media reports have said that possible partners for magna include russian carmaker gaz as well as russia 's sberbank .
gaz and its owner , billionaire oleg deripaska , have repeatedly denied interest .
general motors teeters on bridge of bankruptcy meanwhile , opel 's parent company , general motors , has announced a quarterly net loss of six billion dollars -lrb- 4.5 billion euros -rrb- - its eighth quarterly loss in a row .
it also announced a loss of 2 billion dollars -lrb- 1.5 billion euros -rrb- from its european operations .
revenue dropped by 47 percent , to 22.4 billion dollars .
gm , the largest us carmaker , is currently operating under a us federal bail-out plan .
it is threatened with bankruptcy , as has already happened to its competitor , chrysler .
us president barack obama has given gm an end-of-may deadline for a new restructuring plan to be implemented . cg / dpa , reuters / ap / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de fiat denies it plans to cut 18,000 jobs , close factories fiat has denied a german news report that it plans to cut 18,000 jobs and close 10 factories in europe , should it succeed in its bid to take over gm 's european operations .
-lrb- 06.05.2009 -rrb- fiat boss commits to opel plants in germany the head of italian automaker fiat , sergio marchionne , has said in an interview he wants to keep open all four opel plants in germany after a possible takeover of the struggling carmaker .
-lrb- 05.05.2009 -rrb- magna meets with guttenberg over possible opel deal representatives from the canadian-austrian car parts supplier have presented germany 's economics minister with a draft plan for bailing out opel .
but the troubled carmaker remains a bone of contention .
-lrb- 28.04.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live radio d listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
fiat reported to have plans to shut down german opel plant -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.09.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de auto industry -pipe- 07.05.2009 fiat reported to have plans to shut down german opel plant großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : at this stage , the road fiat plans to take in its proposed opel takeover is unclear italian auto group fiat could shut down as many as five factories , including one in germany , as part of its plans to take over the european operations of struggling us auto giant , general motors . according to media reports that cite fiat 's proposal to the german government from earlier this week , the opel plant in kaiserslautern would cease operations under fiat .
plants in bochum and the opel headquarters at ruesselsheim would , according to the reports , be scaled down , as part of " project phoenix " .
one gm plant in england , one in austria , as well as two italian factories would also be part of the shutdown list , according to the reports .
however , this contradicts fiat ceo sergio marchionne 's denial earlier this week that any of opel 's four german plans would be closed . job cuts " inevitable " - no matter who takes over bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : opel employees ' fate is still very much up in the air armin schild , a member of opel 's supervisory board , said job cuts would be inevitable in a takeover of opel .
job cut plans are one of the key criteria on which the suitability of potential investors in opel will be judged , according to a checklist drawn up by vice-chancellor frank-walter steinmeier -lrb- spd -rrb- , who will is to challenge chancellor angela merkel -lrb- cdu -rrb- in september 's federal election .
schild , who represents labor union ig metall on the board , also said the austrian-canadian car parts maker magna has so far presented a more concrete takeover proposal .
media reports have said that possible partners for magna include russian carmaker gaz as well as russia 's sberbank .
gaz and its owner , billionaire oleg deripaska , have repeatedly denied interest .
general motors teeters on bridge of bankruptcy meanwhile , opel 's parent company , general motors , has announced a quarterly net loss of six billion dollars -lrb- 4.5 billion euros -rrb- - its eighth quarterly loss in a row .
it also announced a loss of 2 billion dollars -lrb- 1.5 billion euros -rrb- from its european operations .
revenue dropped by 47 percent , to 22.4 billion dollars .
gm , the largest us carmaker , is currently operating under a us federal bail-out plan .
it is threatened with bankruptcy , as has already happened to its competitor , chrysler .
us president barack obama has given gm an end-of-may deadline for a new restructuring plan to be implemented . cg / dpa , reuters / ap / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de fiat denies it plans to cut 18,000 jobs , close factories fiat has denied a german news report that it plans to cut 18,000 jobs and close 10 factories in europe , should it succeed in its bid to take over gm 's european operations .
-lrb- 06.05.2009 -rrb- fiat boss commits to opel plants in germany the head of italian automaker fiat , sergio marchionne , has said in an interview he wants to keep open all four opel plants in germany after a possible takeover of the struggling carmaker .
-lrb- 05.05.2009 -rrb- magna meets with guttenberg over possible opel deal representatives from the canadian-austrian car parts supplier have presented germany 's economics minister with a draft plan for bailing out opel .
but the troubled carmaker remains a bone of contention .
-lrb- 28.04.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
eu approves commerzbank bailout -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 14.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business 125 years automobile science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de banking -pipe- 07.05.2009 eu approves commerzbank bailout großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : commerzbank was the first german bank to tap into the government 's rescue fund brussels has approved an 18-billion-euro government bailout of germany ’ s second largest bank .
the eu had requested assurances that the money will not give the bank an unfair edge over competitors . part of the money is already on commerzbank 's balance sheets after berlin injected 8 billion euros -lrb- $ 10.6 billion -rrb- into the bank in december last year .
now , commerzbank stands to receive another 10 billion euros of fresh capital .
berlin however needed the approval of brussels and on thursday the eu commission gave its green light .
" on the basis of the notified plans , the commission is satisfied that commerzbank 's long term viability has been demonstrated , and that the aid is kept to the minimum and will not lead to undue distortions of competition .
it has therefore declared the aid compatible , " the eu executive said in a statement .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : frankfurt 's skyline of bank headquarters was rocked by the global finacial crisis but the government aid will be tied to strict restructuring conditions .
commerzbank will have to sell its eurohypo unit , a major european player in the real estate business .
in addition , the bank will be banned for three years from buying other financial institutes that it competes with .
commerzbank , which is germany 's second largest private bank with a balance sheet total of 1,100 billion euros of capital , ran into financial trouble as a result of the global credit crunch .
berlin has welcomed the decision from brussels .
a government spokeswoman said it was " an important step to strengthen the trust in the government 's bailout fund . "
in the wake of the global financial crisis , germany has created a 470-billion-euro rescue fund to support the struggling sector . ai / rm , dpa / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de conditions for commerzbank aid package appear to be set the european commission has set conditions for commerzbank to get an 18 billion euros -lrb- $ 23 billion -rrb- rescue package from the german government .
the bank is expected to shed its eurohypo unit .
-lrb- 22.04.2009 -rrb- german government takes large stake in commerzbank the german government has agreed to take a 25-percent share in commerzbank .
the move signals the first time the government has taken a stake in a major private bank and comes as commerzbank is set to buy dresdner bank .
-lrb- 09.01.2009 -rrb- merkel seeks to make bank bailouts more attractive germany 's rescue package for struggling banks may be in for a revamp to make it more appealing to financial institutions that have so far rejected it , german media reported tuesday .
-lrb- 02.12.2008 -rrb- 9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-tv europe live in focus - documentaries and reports we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live living planet money in whaling and human-wildlife diseases listen live stock exchange today in history 1789 : the storming of the bastille dw-tv get an inside look at some of germany 's more unusual companies .
flying the german flag - costly voyages for shipping companies captains in the classroom - rostock 's maritime school organbuilding - the art and craft of the perfect sound saving makes cents – new heating technology for industry © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
eu approves commerzbank bailout -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 16.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de banking -pipe- 07.05.2009 eu approves commerzbank bailout großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : commerzbank was the first german bank to tap into the government 's rescue fund brussels has approved an 18-billion-euro government bailout of germany ’ s second largest bank .
the eu had requested assurances that the money will not give the bank an unfair edge over competitors . part of the money is already on commerzbank 's balance sheets after berlin injected 8 billion euros -lrb- $ 10.6 billion -rrb- into the bank in december last year .
now , commerzbank stands to receive another 10 billion euros of fresh capital .
berlin however needed the approval of brussels and on thursday the eu commission gave its green light .
" on the basis of the notified plans , the commission is satisfied that commerzbank 's long term viability has been demonstrated , and that the aid is kept to the minimum and will not lead to undue distortions of competition .
it has therefore declared the aid compatible , " the eu executive said in a statement .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : frankfurt 's skyline of bank headquarters was rocked by the global finacial crisis but the government aid will be tied to strict restructuring conditions .
commerzbank will have to sell its eurohypo unit , a major european player in the real estate business .
in addition , the bank will be banned for three years from buying other financial institutes that it competes with .
commerzbank , which is germany 's second largest private bank with a balance sheet total of 1,100 billion euros of capital , ran into financial trouble as a result of the global credit crunch .
berlin has welcomed the decision from brussels .
a government spokeswoman said it was " an important step to strengthen the trust in the government 's bailout fund . "
in the wake of the global financial crisis , germany has created a 470-billion-euro rescue fund to support the struggling sector . ai / rm , dpa / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de conditions for commerzbank aid package appear to be set the european commission has set conditions for commerzbank to get an 18 billion euros -lrb- $ 23 billion -rrb- rescue package from the german government .
the bank is expected to shed its eurohypo unit .
-lrb- 22.04.2009 -rrb- german government takes large stake in commerzbank the german government has agreed to take a 25-percent share in commerzbank .
the move signals the first time the government has taken a stake in a major private bank and comes as commerzbank is set to buy dresdner bank .
-lrb- 09.01.2009 -rrb- merkel seeks to make bank bailouts more attractive germany 's rescue package for struggling banks may be in for a revamp to make it more appealing to financial institutions that have so far rejected it , german media reported tuesday .
-lrb- 02.12.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week world a global player dw takes a look at china 's rising political influence that has accompanied its economic growth .
labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live kick off !
countdown we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inside europe listen live stock exchange today in history 1861 : the largest blacksmith 's hammer at krupp © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
eu approves commerzbank bailout -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 21.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business 125 years automobile science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de banking -pipe- 07.05.2009 eu approves commerzbank bailout großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : commerzbank was the first german bank to tap into the government 's rescue fund brussels has approved an 18-billion-euro government bailout of germany ’ s second largest bank .
the eu had requested assurances that the money will not give the bank an unfair edge over competitors . part of the money is already on commerzbank 's balance sheets after berlin injected 8 billion euros -lrb- $ 10.6 billion -rrb- into the bank in december last year .
now , commerzbank stands to receive another 10 billion euros of fresh capital .
berlin however needed the approval of brussels and on thursday the eu commission gave its green light .
" on the basis of the notified plans , the commission is satisfied that commerzbank 's long term viability has been demonstrated , and that the aid is kept to the minimum and will not lead to undue distortions of competition .
it has therefore declared the aid compatible , " the eu executive said in a statement .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : frankfurt 's skyline of bank headquarters was rocked by the global finacial crisis but the government aid will be tied to strict restructuring conditions .
commerzbank will have to sell its eurohypo unit , a major european player in the real estate business .
in addition , the bank will be banned for three years from buying other financial institutes that it competes with .
commerzbank , which is germany 's second largest private bank with a balance sheet total of 1,100 billion euros of capital , ran into financial trouble as a result of the global credit crunch .
berlin has welcomed the decision from brussels .
a government spokeswoman said it was " an important step to strengthen the trust in the government 's bailout fund . "
in the wake of the global financial crisis , germany has created a 470-billion-euro rescue fund to support the struggling sector . ai / rm , dpa / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de conditions for commerzbank aid package appear to be set the european commission has set conditions for commerzbank to get an 18 billion euros -lrb- $ 23 billion -rrb- rescue package from the german government .
the bank is expected to shed its eurohypo unit .
-lrb- 22.04.2009 -rrb- german government takes large stake in commerzbank the german government has agreed to take a 25-percent share in commerzbank .
the move signals the first time the government has taken a stake in a major private bank and comes as commerzbank is set to buy dresdner bank .
-lrb- 09.01.2009 -rrb- merkel seeks to make bank bailouts more attractive germany 's rescue package for struggling banks may be in for a revamp to make it more appealing to financial institutions that have so far rejected it , german media reported tuesday .
-lrb- 02.12.2008 -rrb- 9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live stock exchange today in history 1795 : the meter is laid down in paris dw-tv get an inside look at some of germany 's more unusual companies .
well-wrapped - a house journeys to china studio guest : michael hüther düsseldorf - the song contest as an economic factor energy butler - cutting utility bills made easy pumped storage power plant - ecological energy depot in the black forest © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
eu approves commerzbank bailout -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 19.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de banking -pipe- 07.05.2009 eu approves commerzbank bailout großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : commerzbank was the first german bank to tap into the government 's rescue fund brussels has approved an 18-billion-euro government bailout of germany ’ s second largest bank .
the eu had requested assurances that the money will not give the bank an unfair edge over competitors . part of the money is already on commerzbank 's balance sheets after berlin injected 8 billion euros -lrb- $ 10.6 billion -rrb- into the bank in december last year .
now , commerzbank stands to receive another 10 billion euros of fresh capital .
berlin however needed the approval of brussels and on thursday the eu commission gave its green light .
" on the basis of the notified plans , the commission is satisfied that commerzbank 's long term viability has been demonstrated , and that the aid is kept to the minimum and will not lead to undue distortions of competition .
it has therefore declared the aid compatible , " the eu executive said in a statement .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : frankfurt 's skyline of bank headquarters was rocked by the global finacial crisis but the government aid will be tied to strict restructuring conditions .
commerzbank will have to sell its eurohypo unit , a major european player in the real estate business .
in addition , the bank will be banned for three years from buying other financial institutes that it competes with .
commerzbank , which is germany 's second largest private bank with a balance sheet total of 1,100 billion euros of capital , ran into financial trouble as a result of the global credit crunch .
berlin has welcomed the decision from brussels .
a government spokeswoman said it was " an important step to strengthen the trust in the government 's bailout fund . "
in the wake of the global financial crisis , germany has created a 470-billion-euro rescue fund to support the struggling sector . ai / rm , dpa / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de conditions for commerzbank aid package appear to be set the european commission has set conditions for commerzbank to get an 18 billion euros -lrb- $ 23 billion -rrb- rescue package from the german government .
the bank is expected to shed its eurohypo unit .
-lrb- 22.04.2009 -rrb- german government takes large stake in commerzbank the german government has agreed to take a 25-percent share in commerzbank .
the move signals the first time the government has taken a stake in a major private bank and comes as commerzbank is set to buy dresdner bank .
-lrb- 09.01.2009 -rrb- merkel seeks to make bank bailouts more attractive germany 's rescue package for struggling banks may be in for a revamp to make it more appealing to financial institutions that have so far rejected it , german media reported tuesday .
-lrb- 02.12.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live stock exchange today in history 1972 : heinrich böll awarded nobel prize for literature © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
eu approves commerzbank bailout -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 22.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de banking -pipe- 07.05.2009 eu approves commerzbank bailout großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : commerzbank was the first german bank to tap into the government 's rescue fund brussels has approved an 18-billion-euro government bailout of germany ’ s second largest bank .
the eu had requested assurances that the money will not give the bank an unfair edge over competitors . part of the money is already on commerzbank 's balance sheets after berlin injected 8 billion euros -lrb- $ 10.6 billion -rrb- into the bank in december last year .
now , commerzbank stands to receive another 10 billion euros of fresh capital .
berlin however needed the approval of brussels and on thursday the eu commission gave its green light .
" on the basis of the notified plans , the commission is satisfied that commerzbank 's long term viability has been demonstrated , and that the aid is kept to the minimum and will not lead to undue distortions of competition .
it has therefore declared the aid compatible , " the eu executive said in a statement .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : frankfurt 's skyline of bank headquarters was rocked by the global finacial crisis but the government aid will be tied to strict restructuring conditions .
commerzbank will have to sell its eurohypo unit , a major european player in the real estate business .
in addition , the bank will be banned for three years from buying other financial institutes that it competes with .
commerzbank , which is germany 's second largest private bank with a balance sheet total of 1,100 billion euros of capital , ran into financial trouble as a result of the global credit crunch .
berlin has welcomed the decision from brussels .
a government spokeswoman said it was " an important step to strengthen the trust in the government 's bailout fund . "
in the wake of the global financial crisis , germany has created a 470-billion-euro rescue fund to support the struggling sector . ai / rm , dpa / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de conditions for commerzbank aid package appear to be set the european commission has set conditions for commerzbank to get an 18 billion euros -lrb- $ 23 billion -rrb- rescue package from the german government .
the bank is expected to shed its eurohypo unit .
-lrb- 22.04.2009 -rrb- german government takes large stake in commerzbank the german government has agreed to take a 25-percent share in commerzbank .
the move signals the first time the government has taken a stake in a major private bank and comes as commerzbank is set to buy dresdner bank .
-lrb- 09.01.2009 -rrb- merkel seeks to make bank bailouts more attractive germany 's rescue package for struggling banks may be in for a revamp to make it more appealing to financial institutions that have so far rejected it , german media reported tuesday .
-lrb- 02.12.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live talking germany we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live concert hour leipzig 2 listen live stock exchange today in history 1945 : berlin air lift © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
bremen book a place in the uefa cup final , clinching a win against rivals hamburg -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 22.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de soccer -pipe- 07.05.2009 bremen book a place in the uefa cup final , clinching a win against rivals hamburg großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bremen 's diego scores but will miss the uefa cup final .
werder bremen came from a goal down to win 3-2 away to sv hamburg thursday to book a uefa cup final date in istanbul against ukrainian side shakhtar donetsk . diego , claudio pizarro and frank baumann were the goal-scoring heroes for bremen to advance to their first ever european final on may 20 in istanbul .
bremen went into the clash trailing 1-0 from the first leg but conceded a goal to hosts hamburg in the 13th minute when joris mathijsen powered his way upfield from defence before finding ivica olic who chipped the ball over bremen 's goalkeepr tim wiese .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : hamburgs 's ivica olic , left , scores his side 's first goal past bremen 's goalkeeper tim wiese olic could have doubled hamburg 's lead on 27 minutes but his effort from close range was saved .
within two minutes bremen were level when diego and pizarro combined well before the brazilian slotted the ball past frank rost .
diego nearly netted a second on 37 minutes but his shot from 25 metres hit the crossbar .
however , the 24-year-old was booked two minutes before the break for an off-the-ball row with alex silva , who also saw yellow , meaning the brazilian will miss the final .
" it was a difficult situation i did n't do anything , not to go to the final is very bad for me , " said diego .
peruvian striker pizarro scored on 66 minutes , beating rost at the near post although the hamburg goalkeeper really should have done better .
baumann looked to have put the game beyond hamburg with bremen 's third seven minutes from time and although olic popped up to score his second of the game to make it 3-2 on the night to set up a tense finale , bremen held on to make it to their first uefa cup final .
" we played well , it was tough to come from two goals down , " said pizarro .
" diego played a great match its a pity he 's not in the final but thats football . "
bremen are the first german side to reach a uefa cup final since borussia dortmund reached the final in 2002 only to lose against feyenoord rotterdam .
ruhr valley side schalke 04 were the last german winners back in 1997 .
same procedure ?
thursday 's semi-final fixture is the third in a series of four matches to be played between the two northern german clubs within a 19-day period . the first game went bremen 's way when goalkeeper tim wiese made three saves in a penalty shootout to knock hamburg out of the german cup semi-final on april 22 . the second saw hamburg gain revenge eight days later with its 0-1 victory in bremen .
the fourth and final derby match is a bundesliga fixture scheduled for sunday , may 10 . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : thomas schaaf has coached werder bremen for a decade intense rivalry as the two biggest cities in northern germany , hamburg and bremen have a long history of competing with each other as hanseatic trading powers , regional centers of industry and culture , and sporting contenders . " what 's very special is that they more or less share the same backyard from which they can get their soccer fans , " deutsche welle 's sports head wolfgang van kann says .
" so it 's always a question of who is better , and where the fans will go . " from a historical perspective , it 's difficult to say which club has been more successful .
according to the so-called " eternal table , " which records the performances of all bundesliga clubs since the competition was founded in 1963 , werder bremen and hamburg are ranked second and third respectively .
at the time of writing , they were separated by just six points . " clearly hamburg has the longer tradition and the longer streak of success , " van kann says .
" bremen has only come up in the last one or two decades , but with huge success . " while hamburg has n't won a title since it lifted the german cup in 1987 , bremen won the german double in 2004 and has qualified for the champions league for the past five seasons . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : fans were disgusted when hooligans killed a 16-year-old in 1982 " the clubs have always been very different , " van kann explains .
" for example you can see that hamburg has had several coaches within the past few years , while bremen has only had one coach for the last 10 years . " fan violence one thing the two clubs do have in common is a dedicated fan base .
hamburg boasts almost 55,000 members , while bremen has more than 30,000 .
but violence involving so-called " ultras " and militant fan groups has driven a wedge between the two cities on more than one occasion . the worst incident took place in october 1982 , when hamburg hosted bremen for a second-round german cup match .
despite a large police presence around the main train station and the stadium , hooligans belonging to a group known as the " hamburg lions " attacked visitors with beer cans , stones and fireworks . a 16-year-old bremen fan named adrian maleika was killed after he was hit on the head by a stone .
while most of germany was shocked , a number of hard-line fans were quoted in the press as being indifferent or hungry for revenge . tensions between supporters of the rival clubs threatened to boil over until representatives of more than 200 fan groups met in the town of scheessel , half-way between bremen and hamburg , and signed a " peace deal " banning revenge attacks . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : werder bremen topped the bundesliga in 1993 and 2004 while provocative lyrics sung in stadiums during northern derbies occasionally refer to the incident , most fans have put the conflict behind them , and prefer to remember - or forget - these four landmark matches from the past 30 years : bremen 6-0 hamburg , may 1 , 2004 the most one-sided result between the two clubs was in bremen as the 2003-04 bundesliga season drew to an end .
some 42,000 spectators watched hamburg striker sergej barbarez score an own-goal and trigger an avalanche of bremen goals .
one match later , werder bremen won the championship with a spectacular 3-1 victory over bayern munich . bremen 4-2 hamburg , october 27 , 1993 just over 34,000 fans turned out to watch the fourth round german cup fixture in bremen 's weserstadion .
austrian midfielder andreas herzog gave bremen an early lead , but hamburg managed to score twice after the break before bernd hobsch leveled the scores in the 74th minute .
when hamburg 's andreas sassen was shown a red card , bremen 's frank neubarth and wynton rufer capitalized by both finding the net in the final four minutes .
the convincing victory saw werder bremen progress through the tournament to win the 1993 german cup . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : horst hrubesch was a key player for hamburg in 1982 .
bremen 5-0 hamburg , may 29 , 1993 bremen also secured the bundesliga crown with one game to spare in 1993 thanks to this overwhelming victory .
andreas herzog and wynton rufer both scored as the home crowd celebrated their club 's third title .
bremen ended the season one point ahead of bayern munich , leaving hamburg to finish 11th .
legendary bremen coach otto rehhagel described the victory as a " milestone " for the club . hamburg 5-0 bremen , may 15 , 1982 one of hamburg 's two highest-ever wins against their northern derby rivals came in the closing stages of the 1981/1982 campaign .
a total of 53,400 fans watched horst hrubesch - now germany 's under-21 coach - score a hat-trick as hamburg demolished bremen 's defense to win the bundesliga title at the expense of second-placed fc cologne . author : sam edmonds editor : darren mara send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de hamburg move closer to uefa final after bremen defeat sv hamburg took the advantage on thursday after defeating bremen 1-0 in the first leg of their uefa cup semi-final matches .
hamburg 's coach says their position is good for the second leg , but bremen is not giving up .
-lrb- 01.05.2009 -rrb- german , ukrainian clubs fight for uefa cup honors domestic pride will be at stake in europe when ukrainian and german clubs battle against each other in the semi-finals of the uefa cup in first-leg matches on thursday .
-lrb- 30.04.2009 -rrb- werder bremen beat hamburg in cup semi-final bremen beat hamburg on penalties to reach the cup final .
bremen 's goalie tim wiese was the man of the game as he saved three penalties .
his side will now face leverkusen in the final .
-lrb- 23.04.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live sports report listen live dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report bundesliga predictions the results gurus dw 's soccer pundits attempt to predict match day 13 's results while achieving spiritual nirvana .
scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results at a glance .
dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia moenchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
berlin holds 47 percent of troubled hypo real estate -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 26.01.2011 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de economy -pipe- 07.05.2009 berlin holds 47 percent of troubled hypo real estate großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : berlin 's buy up of shares has given the green light to nationalization the german government has announced it now holds more than 47 percent of the mortgage lender , hypo real estate , following its decision to take over the troubled lender . the government 's financial market stabilization fund , soffin , now holds a 47.31 percent share of munich-based hre , after the government 's bid to buy up shareholders ' stock .
the government 's offer , worth 290 million euros -lrb- $ 386 million -rrb- , expired at midnight monday .
each share had a cash offer of 1.39 euros .
in berlin , finance minister peer steinbrueck said he was pleased with the results of the share buy offer .
" this now means the government can continue with the planned takeover of hre shares , according to stock corporation law , " he said .
" only with the complete government takeover can hre 's survival be ensured and the taxpayers ' interests protected , " steinbrueck added . despite the fact that berlin failed to come up with 50 percent of shares , steinbrueck said that soffin could complete a takeover of the firm through means made available by german shareholder law .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : soffin 's rehm says hypo needs to be rescued to ensure the stabilty of germany 's economy hannes rehm , chairman of the soffin management committee , is optimistic that will happen : " we will consistently pursue our efforts to stabilize hre , " he said .
" the bank is of systemic relevance and must be rescued in order to ensure stability of the financial markets and the german economy .
i expect the envisaged capital increase to be approved by the extraordinary general meeting , " he added .
a capital increase is a type of equity issuance in which new stocks are offered for sale .
hre shareholders have been invited to the extraordinary general meeting on june 2 .
at the meeting , soffin will subscribe all of the new shares , excluding subscription rights of the shareholders .
this will give it a majority of 90 percent , as well as voting rights .
that will pave the way for a takeover of the shares held by the remaining minority shareholders - through a so-called " squeeze-out " procedure .
soffin does not expect the price to exceed the original offer price of 1.39 euros per share .
us private equity firm jc flowers & co , which rejects the government 's plans , still owns about 14 percent of hre . cg / rm , reuters / dp / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de nationalization is on the horizon for beleagered hypo real estate bank the german government has invested more than 100 billion euros in ailing mortgage lender hypo real estate bank to ensure it does n't collapse - now it wants total control .
-lrb- 05.05.2009 -rrb- hre to post more losses , takeover deadline looms as the german government and a us investment group battle over shares in the hypo real estate bank , it seems the struggling lender is still losing money .
-lrb- 04.05.2009 -rrb- flowers rejects government takeover bid for hre a major legal battle for the ownership of german bank hypo real estate is looming after a major investor rejected a bid from the german government .
-lrb- 30.04.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
berlin holds 47 percent of troubled hypo real estate -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 20.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de economy -pipe- 07.05.2009 berlin holds 47 percent of troubled hypo real estate großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : berlin 's buy up of shares has given the green light to nationalization the german government has announced it now holds more than 47 percent of the mortgage lender , hypo real estate , following its decision to take over the troubled lender . the government 's financial market stabilization fund , soffin , now holds a 47.31 percent share of munich-based hre , after the government 's bid to buy up shareholders ' stock .
the government 's offer , worth 290 million euros -lrb- $ 386 million -rrb- , expired at midnight monday .
each share had a cash offer of 1.39 euros .
in berlin , finance minister peer steinbrueck said he was pleased with the results of the share buy offer .
" this now means the government can continue with the planned takeover of hre shares , according to stock corporation law , " he said .
" only with the complete government takeover can hre 's survival be ensured and the taxpayers ' interests protected , " steinbrueck added . despite the fact that berlin failed to come up with 50 percent of shares , steinbrueck said that soffin could complete a takeover of the firm through means made available by german shareholder law .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : soffin 's rehm says hypo needs to be rescued to ensure the stabilty of germany 's economy hannes rehm , chairman of the soffin management committee , is optimistic that will happen : " we will consistently pursue our efforts to stabilize hre , " he said .
" the bank is of systemic relevance and must be rescued in order to ensure stability of the financial markets and the german economy .
i expect the envisaged capital increase to be approved by the extraordinary general meeting , " he added .
a capital increase is a type of equity issuance in which new stocks are offered for sale .
hre shareholders have been invited to the extraordinary general meeting on june 2 .
at the meeting , soffin will subscribe all of the new shares , excluding subscription rights of the shareholders .
this will give it a majority of 90 percent , as well as voting rights .
that will pave the way for a takeover of the shares held by the remaining minority shareholders - through a so-called " squeeze-out " procedure .
soffin does not expect the price to exceed the original offer price of 1.39 euros per share .
us private equity firm jc flowers & co , which rejects the government 's plans , still owns about 14 percent of hre . cg / rm , reuters / dp / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de nationalization is on the horizon for beleagered hypo real estate bank the german government has invested more than 100 billion euros in ailing mortgage lender hypo real estate bank to ensure it does n't collapse - now it wants total control .
-lrb- 05.05.2009 -rrb- hre to post more losses , takeover deadline looms as the german government and a us investment group battle over shares in the hypo real estate bank , it seems the struggling lender is still losing money .
-lrb- 04.05.2009 -rrb- flowers rejects government takeover bid for hre a major legal battle for the ownership of german bank hypo real estate is looming after a major investor rejected a bid from the german government .
-lrb- 30.04.2009 -rrb- 9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live politik direkt we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
culture west german photographer thomas hoepker documented life abroad - in east germany - in the 1970s .
watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
berlin holds 47 percent of troubled hypo real estate -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 23.12.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de economy -pipe- 07.05.2009 berlin holds 47 percent of troubled hypo real estate großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : berlin 's buy up of shares has given the green light to nationalization the german government has announced it now holds more than 47 percent of the mortgage lender , hypo real estate , following its decision to take over the troubled lender . the government 's financial market stabilization fund , soffin , now holds a 47.31 percent share of munich-based hre , after the government 's bid to buy up shareholders ' stock .
the government 's offer , worth 290 million euros -lrb- $ 386 million -rrb- , expired at midnight monday .
each share had a cash offer of 1.39 euros .
in berlin , finance minister peer steinbrueck said he was pleased with the results of the share buy offer .
" this now means the government can continue with the planned takeover of hre shares , according to stock corporation law , " he said .
" only with the complete government takeover can hre 's survival be ensured and the taxpayers ' interests protected , " steinbrueck added . despite the fact that berlin failed to come up with 50 percent of shares , steinbrueck said that soffin could complete a takeover of the firm through means made available by german shareholder law .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : soffin 's rehm says hypo needs to be rescued to ensure the stabilty of germany 's economy hannes rehm , chairman of the soffin management committee , is optimistic that will happen : " we will consistently pursue our efforts to stabilize hre , " he said .
" the bank is of systemic relevance and must be rescued in order to ensure stability of the financial markets and the german economy .
i expect the envisaged capital increase to be approved by the extraordinary general meeting , " he added .
a capital increase is a type of equity issuance in which new stocks are offered for sale .
hre shareholders have been invited to the extraordinary general meeting on june 2 .
at the meeting , soffin will subscribe all of the new shares , excluding subscription rights of the shareholders .
this will give it a majority of 90 percent , as well as voting rights .
that will pave the way for a takeover of the shares held by the remaining minority shareholders - through a so-called " squeeze-out " procedure .
soffin does not expect the price to exceed the original offer price of 1.39 euros per share .
us private equity firm jc flowers & co , which rejects the government 's plans , still owns about 14 percent of hre . cg / rm , reuters / dp / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de nationalization is on the horizon for beleagered hypo real estate bank the german government has invested more than 100 billion euros in ailing mortgage lender hypo real estate bank to ensure it does n't collapse - now it wants total control .
-lrb- 05.05.2009 -rrb- hre to post more losses , takeover deadline looms as the german government and a us investment group battle over shares in the hypo real estate bank , it seems the struggling lender is still losing money .
-lrb- 04.05.2009 -rrb- flowers rejects government takeover bid for hre a major legal battle for the ownership of german bank hypo real estate is looming after a major investor rejected a bid from the german government .
-lrb- 30.04.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live made in germany we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live arts on the air listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
travel passau is called the three river city , but it is just as famous for its baroque splendor .
passau - baroque facades and vibrant arts watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
berlin holds 47 percent of troubled hypo real estate -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 11.09.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de economy -pipe- 07.05.2009 berlin holds 47 percent of troubled hypo real estate großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : berlin 's buy up of shares has given the green light to nationalization the german government has announced it now holds more than 47 percent of the mortgage lender , hypo real estate , following its decision to take over the troubled lender . the government 's financial market stabilization fund , soffin , now holds a 47.31 percent share of munich-based hre , after the government 's bid to buy up shareholders ' stock .
the government 's offer , worth 290 million euros -lrb- $ 386 million -rrb- , expired at midnight monday .
each share had a cash offer of 1.39 euros .
in berlin , finance minister peer steinbrueck said he was pleased with the results of the share buy offer .
" this now means the government can continue with the planned takeover of hre shares , according to stock corporation law , " he said .
" only with the complete government takeover can hre 's survival be ensured and the taxpayers ' interests protected , " steinbrueck added . despite the fact that berlin failed to come up with 50 percent of shares , steinbrueck said that soffin could complete a takeover of the firm through means made available by german shareholder law .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : soffin 's rehm says hypo needs to be rescued to ensure the stabilty of germany 's economy hannes rehm , chairman of the soffin management committee , is optimistic that will happen : " we will consistently pursue our efforts to stabilize hre , " he said .
" the bank is of systemic relevance and must be rescued in order to ensure stability of the financial markets and the german economy .
i expect the envisaged capital increase to be approved by the extraordinary general meeting , " he added .
a capital increase is a type of equity issuance in which new stocks are offered for sale .
hre shareholders have been invited to the extraordinary general meeting on june 2 .
at the meeting , soffin will subscribe all of the new shares , excluding subscription rights of the shareholders .
this will give it a majority of 90 percent , as well as voting rights .
that will pave the way for a takeover of the shares held by the remaining minority shareholders - through a so-called " squeeze-out " procedure .
soffin does not expect the price to exceed the original offer price of 1.39 euros per share .
us private equity firm jc flowers & co , which rejects the government 's plans , still owns about 14 percent of hre . cg / rm , reuters / dp / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de nationalization is on the horizon for beleagered hypo real estate bank the german government has invested more than 100 billion euros in ailing mortgage lender hypo real estate bank to ensure it does n't collapse - now it wants total control .
-lrb- 05.05.2009 -rrb- hre to post more losses , takeover deadline looms as the german government and a us investment group battle over shares in the hypo real estate bank , it seems the struggling lender is still losing money .
-lrb- 04.05.2009 -rrb- flowers rejects government takeover bid for hre a major legal battle for the ownership of german bank hypo real estate is looming after a major investor rejected a bid from the german government .
-lrb- 30.04.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live hits in germany pop from the german top 100 listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
berlin holds 47 percent of troubled hypo real estate -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.10.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de economy -pipe- 07.05.2009 berlin holds 47 percent of troubled hypo real estate großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : berlin 's buy up of shares has given the green light to nationalization the german government has announced it now holds more than 47 percent of the mortgage lender , hypo real estate , following its decision to take over the troubled lender . the government 's financial market stabilization fund , soffin , now holds a 47.31 percent share of munich-based hre , after the government 's bid to buy up shareholders ' stock .
the government 's offer , worth 290 million euros -lrb- $ 386 million -rrb- , expired at midnight monday .
each share had a cash offer of 1.39 euros .
in berlin , finance minister peer steinbrueck said he was pleased with the results of the share buy offer .
" this now means the government can continue with the planned takeover of hre shares , according to stock corporation law , " he said .
" only with the complete government takeover can hre 's survival be ensured and the taxpayers ' interests protected , " steinbrueck added . despite the fact that berlin failed to come up with 50 percent of shares , steinbrueck said that soffin could complete a takeover of the firm through means made available by german shareholder law .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : soffin 's rehm says hypo needs to be rescued to ensure the stabilty of germany 's economy hannes rehm , chairman of the soffin management committee , is optimistic that will happen : " we will consistently pursue our efforts to stabilize hre , " he said .
" the bank is of systemic relevance and must be rescued in order to ensure stability of the financial markets and the german economy .
i expect the envisaged capital increase to be approved by the extraordinary general meeting , " he added .
a capital increase is a type of equity issuance in which new stocks are offered for sale .
hre shareholders have been invited to the extraordinary general meeting on june 2 .
at the meeting , soffin will subscribe all of the new shares , excluding subscription rights of the shareholders .
this will give it a majority of 90 percent , as well as voting rights .
that will pave the way for a takeover of the shares held by the remaining minority shareholders - through a so-called " squeeze-out " procedure .
soffin does not expect the price to exceed the original offer price of 1.39 euros per share .
us private equity firm jc flowers & co , which rejects the government 's plans , still owns about 14 percent of hre . cg / rm , reuters / dp / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de nationalization is on the horizon for beleagered hypo real estate bank the german government has invested more than 100 billion euros in ailing mortgage lender hypo real estate bank to ensure it does n't collapse - now it wants total control .
-lrb- 05.05.2009 -rrb- hre to post more losses , takeover deadline looms as the german government and a us investment group battle over shares in the hypo real estate bank , it seems the struggling lender is still losing money .
-lrb- 04.05.2009 -rrb- flowers rejects government takeover bid for hre a major legal battle for the ownership of german bank hypo real estate is looming after a major investor rejected a bid from the german government .
-lrb- 30.04.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live pulse listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
berlin holds 47 percent of troubled hypo real estate -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 21.11.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de economy -pipe- 07.05.2009 berlin holds 47 percent of troubled hypo real estate großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : berlin 's buy up of shares has given the green light to nationalization the german government has announced it now holds more than 47 percent of the mortgage lender , hypo real estate , following its decision to take over the troubled lender . the government 's financial market stabilization fund , soffin , now holds a 47.31 percent share of munich-based hre , after the government 's bid to buy up shareholders ' stock .
the government 's offer , worth 290 million euros -lrb- $ 386 million -rrb- , expired at midnight monday .
each share had a cash offer of 1.39 euros .
in berlin , finance minister peer steinbrueck said he was pleased with the results of the share buy offer .
" this now means the government can continue with the planned takeover of hre shares , according to stock corporation law , " he said .
" only with the complete government takeover can hre 's survival be ensured and the taxpayers ' interests protected , " steinbrueck added . despite the fact that berlin failed to come up with 50 percent of shares , steinbrueck said that soffin could complete a takeover of the firm through means made available by german shareholder law .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : soffin 's rehm says hypo needs to be rescued to ensure the stabilty of germany 's economy hannes rehm , chairman of the soffin management committee , is optimistic that will happen : " we will consistently pursue our efforts to stabilize hre , " he said .
" the bank is of systemic relevance and must be rescued in order to ensure stability of the financial markets and the german economy .
i expect the envisaged capital increase to be approved by the extraordinary general meeting , " he added .
a capital increase is a type of equity issuance in which new stocks are offered for sale .
hre shareholders have been invited to the extraordinary general meeting on june 2 .
at the meeting , soffin will subscribe all of the new shares , excluding subscription rights of the shareholders .
this will give it a majority of 90 percent , as well as voting rights .
that will pave the way for a takeover of the shares held by the remaining minority shareholders - through a so-called " squeeze-out " procedure .
soffin does not expect the price to exceed the original offer price of 1.39 euros per share .
us private equity firm jc flowers & co , which rejects the government 's plans , still owns about 14 percent of hre . cg / rm , reuters / dp / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de nationalization is on the horizon for beleagered hypo real estate bank the german government has invested more than 100 billion euros in ailing mortgage lender hypo real estate bank to ensure it does n't collapse - now it wants total control .
-lrb- 05.05.2009 -rrb- hre to post more losses , takeover deadline looms as the german government and a us investment group battle over shares in the hypo real estate bank , it seems the struggling lender is still losing money .
-lrb- 04.05.2009 -rrb- flowers rejects government takeover bid for hre a major legal battle for the ownership of german bank hypo real estate is looming after a major investor rejected a bid from the german government .
-lrb- 30.04.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inside europe listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
berlin holds 47 percent of troubled hypo real estate -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de economy -pipe- 07.05.2009 berlin holds 47 percent of troubled hypo real estate großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : berlin 's buy up of shares has given the green light to nationalization the german government has announced it now holds more than 47 percent of the mortgage lender , hypo real estate , following its decision to take over the troubled lender . the government 's financial market stabilization fund , soffin , now holds a 47.31 percent share of munich-based hre , after the government 's bid to buy up shareholders ' stock .
the government 's offer , worth 290 million euros -lrb- $ 386 million -rrb- , expired at midnight monday .
each share had a cash offer of 1.39 euros .
in berlin , finance minister peer steinbrueck said he was pleased with the results of the share buy offer .
" this now means the government can continue with the planned takeover of hre shares , according to stock corporation law , " he said .
" only with the complete government takeover can hre 's survival be ensured and the taxpayers ' interests protected , " steinbrueck added . despite the fact that berlin failed to come up with 50 percent of shares , steinbrueck said that soffin could complete a takeover of the firm through means made available by german shareholder law .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : soffin 's rehm says hypo needs to be rescued to ensure the stabilty of germany 's economy hannes rehm , chairman of the soffin management committee , is optimistic that will happen : " we will consistently pursue our efforts to stabilize hre , " he said .
" the bank is of systemic relevance and must be rescued in order to ensure stability of the financial markets and the german economy .
i expect the envisaged capital increase to be approved by the extraordinary general meeting , " he added .
a capital increase is a type of equity issuance in which new stocks are offered for sale .
hre shareholders have been invited to the extraordinary general meeting on june 2 .
at the meeting , soffin will subscribe all of the new shares , excluding subscription rights of the shareholders .
this will give it a majority of 90 percent , as well as voting rights .
that will pave the way for a takeover of the shares held by the remaining minority shareholders - through a so-called " squeeze-out " procedure .
soffin does not expect the price to exceed the original offer price of 1.39 euros per share .
us private equity firm jc flowers & co , which rejects the government 's plans , still owns about 14 percent of hre . cg / rm , reuters / dp / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de nationalization is on the horizon for beleagered hypo real estate bank the german government has invested more than 100 billion euros in ailing mortgage lender hypo real estate bank to ensure it does n't collapse - now it wants total control .
-lrb- 05.05.2009 -rrb- hre to post more losses , takeover deadline looms as the german government and a us investment group battle over shares in the hypo real estate bank , it seems the struggling lender is still losing money .
-lrb- 04.05.2009 -rrb- flowers rejects government takeover bid for hre a major legal battle for the ownership of german bank hypo real estate is looming after a major investor rejected a bid from the german government .
-lrb- 30.04.2009 -rrb- 9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live made in germany - the business magazine we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live spectrum more efficient nuclear power , qr code coins , a chemicals in space and the future of nasa 's employees listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
digital street art artists in berlin reinvent graffiti by projecting light onto buildings using computer systems .
watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german language lover on quest to save " chinglish " -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 14.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle music art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de from the fringe -pipe- 07.05.2009 german language lover on quest to save " chinglish " großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : just one of the thousands of examples to be found in china a german multimedia producer is working hard to preserve chinglish – china 's special version of english – for future generations . for 32-year-old oliver radtke , his fascination with chinglish began in 2000 , when he noticed a sign while in a shanghai taxi : " do n't forget to carry your thing , " it said .
since then , he has published two books on the subject . most recently , " more chinglish - speaking in tongues , " which hit shelves in april . he also maintains a popular online blog .
there is a view held by many in china , and not least by the authorities , that chinglish is an embarrassment that must be wiped out at all costs .
radtke disagrees .
he says the " language " should be preserved .
" there is a lot in chinglish that is so much more than just incompetent english or incorrect english , " he said .
" a lot of the chinglish signs carry a certain chinese notion in them which enriches the english language and makes english more chinese in the sense that there is a certain chinese flavor , a certain chinese way of thinking . "
radtke focuses on written examples of the lingo on signboards , menu cards and shop fronts .
some signs highlighted in his books are decidedly politically incorrect - " cripple 's lane , " rather than " wheelchair path , " or " deformed man toilet , " instead of " handicapped restroom . "
others are more poetic , such as one sign reminding visitors to one section of the great wall of china to be careful : " do not forget the fire is heartless . "
chinese citizens warming to " chinglish " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : oliver 's book " welcome to presence " " the initial reaction of many chinese users was very much against the project .
they thought i was making fun of them , " radtke said .
but he says the chinese are increasingly supportive of his efforts , and many have come to understand that he believes chinglish is in fact enriching the english language .
radtke , as a german , believes the entire notion of one single , standard version of english is outdated because it now has far more than one billion regular users worldwide , and a rapidly growing number speak it as their second language .
in recent years , china has kicked off campaigns to root out poor english grammar and misused vocabulary in official usage .
much to radtke 's horror , the most famous of these drives took place in beijing prior to the olympic games in august last year .
during that time , authorities rechristened the dongda proctology hospital , formerly the dongda anus hospital .
however radtke maintains these campaigns will never fully succeed .
he 's optimistic that chinglish will never disappear from the mainstream .
" i 'm pessimistic when it comes to official signs in the big cities .
but restaurants , companies , private institutions , small shop owners will all produce a lot of chinglish , " he says . cg , dfm afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de eu to english speakers : put your mouth where the money is the european union wants native english speakers to put their mouths where the money is : translation work .
the bloc , which has 23 official languages , is sending out an urgent youtube plea for more english translators .
-lrb- 19.02.2009 -rrb- immigrants help create new type of german language in multicultural urban areas of germany , a new variant of german has evolved with its own grammar and rhythm .
this ethnolect is spoken among young migrants of various ethnic backgrounds as well as young native germans .
-lrb- 08.12.2007 -rrb- wanderlust sends german words traveling what do autobahn , fest , flugelhorn , angst and gesundheit all have in common ?
you guessed it : they all come from the language of goethe , thomas mann and rammstein .
you know more german words than you think you do .
-lrb- 08.08.2006 -rrb- 9801 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
twitter follow dw culture keep up on europe 's culture and lifestyle scene .
culture calendar july happenings from wagner to world music - find out what 's going on in germany 's cultural scene .
podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's free podcast series .
somewhere between poet and singer : meet hans unstern ' german pop ' homepage word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
view from my window radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
soundscape 100 concert hour arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german language lover on quest to save " chinglish " -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 16.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de from the fringe -pipe- 07.05.2009 german language lover on quest to save " chinglish " großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : just one of the thousands of examples to be found in china a german multimedia producer is working hard to preserve chinglish – china 's special version of english – for future generations . for 32-year-old oliver radtke , his fascination with chinglish began in 2000 , when he noticed a sign while in a shanghai taxi : " do n't forget to carry your thing , " it said .
since then , he has published two books on the subject . most recently , " more chinglish - speaking in tongues , " which hit shelves in april . he also maintains a popular online blog .
there is a view held by many in china , and not least by the authorities , that chinglish is an embarrassment that must be wiped out at all costs .
radtke disagrees .
he says the " language " should be preserved .
" there is a lot in chinglish that is so much more than just incompetent english or incorrect english , " he said .
" a lot of the chinglish signs carry a certain chinese notion in them which enriches the english language and makes english more chinese in the sense that there is a certain chinese flavor , a certain chinese way of thinking . "
radtke focuses on written examples of the lingo on signboards , menu cards and shop fronts .
some signs highlighted in his books are decidedly politically incorrect - " cripple 's lane , " rather than " wheelchair path , " or " deformed man toilet , " instead of " handicapped restroom . "
others are more poetic , such as one sign reminding visitors to one section of the great wall of china to be careful : " do not forget the fire is heartless . "
chinese citizens warming to " chinglish " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : oliver 's book " welcome to presence " " the initial reaction of many chinese users was very much against the project .
they thought i was making fun of them , " radtke said .
but he says the chinese are increasingly supportive of his efforts , and many have come to understand that he believes chinglish is in fact enriching the english language .
radtke , as a german , believes the entire notion of one single , standard version of english is outdated because it now has far more than one billion regular users worldwide , and a rapidly growing number speak it as their second language .
in recent years , china has kicked off campaigns to root out poor english grammar and misused vocabulary in official usage .
much to radtke 's horror , the most famous of these drives took place in beijing prior to the olympic games in august last year .
during that time , authorities rechristened the dongda proctology hospital , formerly the dongda anus hospital .
however radtke maintains these campaigns will never fully succeed .
he 's optimistic that chinglish will never disappear from the mainstream .
" i 'm pessimistic when it comes to official signs in the big cities .
but restaurants , companies , private institutions , small shop owners will all produce a lot of chinglish , " he says . cg , dfm afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de eu to english speakers : put your mouth where the money is the european union wants native english speakers to put their mouths where the money is : translation work .
the bloc , which has 23 official languages , is sending out an urgent youtube plea for more english translators .
-lrb- 19.02.2009 -rrb- immigrants help create new type of german language in multicultural urban areas of germany , a new variant of german has evolved with its own grammar and rhythm .
this ethnolect is spoken among young migrants of various ethnic backgrounds as well as young native germans .
-lrb- 08.12.2007 -rrb- wanderlust sends german words traveling what do autobahn , fest , flugelhorn , angst and gesundheit all have in common ?
you guessed it : they all come from the language of goethe , thomas mann and rammstein .
you know more german words than you think you do .
-lrb- 08.08.2006 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 dw-tv europe live in focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live arts on the air listen live cities at the heart of most european cities , there 's a plaza , piazza or platz where everything happens .
place charles de gaulle , paris plaza mayor , madrid potsdamer platz , berlin st. mark 's square , venice literature urban writing crowded , intriguing and often impovrished , the world 's megacities inspire their writers .
culture calendar september happenings from music and art to film and dance - find out what 's going on in germany 's cultural scene .
podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's new free podcast .
clip no. 1 - luis und laserpower clip no. 2 - abel & cain clip no. 3 - baby benzin clip no. 4 - the intersphere subscribe on itunes get the rss feed word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
hits in germany concert hour music this week arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german language lover on quest to save " chinglish " -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de from the fringe -pipe- 07.05.2009 german language lover on quest to save " chinglish " großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : just one of the thousands of examples to be found in china a german multimedia producer is working hard to preserve chinglish – china 's special version of english – for future generations . for 32-year-old oliver radtke , his fascination with chinglish began in 2000 , when he noticed a sign while in a shanghai taxi : " do n't forget to carry your thing , " it said .
since then , he has published two books on the subject . most recently , " more chinglish - speaking in tongues , " which hit shelves in april . he also maintains a popular online blog .
there is a view held by many in china , and not least by the authorities , that chinglish is an embarrassment that must be wiped out at all costs .
radtke disagrees .
he says the " language " should be preserved .
" there is a lot in chinglish that is so much more than just incompetent english or incorrect english , " he said .
" a lot of the chinglish signs carry a certain chinese notion in them which enriches the english language and makes english more chinese in the sense that there is a certain chinese flavor , a certain chinese way of thinking . "
radtke focuses on written examples of the lingo on signboards , menu cards and shop fronts .
some signs highlighted in his books are decidedly politically incorrect - " cripple 's lane , " rather than " wheelchair path , " or " deformed man toilet , " instead of " handicapped restroom . "
others are more poetic , such as one sign reminding visitors to one section of the great wall of china to be careful : " do not forget the fire is heartless . "
chinese citizens warming to " chinglish " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : oliver 's book " welcome to presence " " the initial reaction of many chinese users was very much against the project .
they thought i was making fun of them , " radtke said .
but he says the chinese are increasingly supportive of his efforts , and many have come to understand that he believes chinglish is in fact enriching the english language .
radtke , as a german , believes the entire notion of one single , standard version of english is outdated because it now has far more than one billion regular users worldwide , and a rapidly growing number speak it as their second language .
in recent years , china has kicked off campaigns to root out poor english grammar and misused vocabulary in official usage .
much to radtke 's horror , the most famous of these drives took place in beijing prior to the olympic games in august last year .
during that time , authorities rechristened the dongda proctology hospital , formerly the dongda anus hospital .
however radtke maintains these campaigns will never fully succeed .
he 's optimistic that chinglish will never disappear from the mainstream .
" i 'm pessimistic when it comes to official signs in the big cities .
but restaurants , companies , private institutions , small shop owners will all produce a lot of chinglish , " he says . cg , dfm afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de eu to english speakers : put your mouth where the money is the european union wants native english speakers to put their mouths where the money is : translation work .
the bloc , which has 23 official languages , is sending out an urgent youtube plea for more english translators .
-lrb- 19.02.2009 -rrb- immigrants help create new type of german language in multicultural urban areas of germany , a new variant of german has evolved with its own grammar and rhythm .
this ethnolect is spoken among young migrants of various ethnic backgrounds as well as young native germans .
-lrb- 08.12.2007 -rrb- wanderlust sends german words traveling what do autobahn , fest , flugelhorn , angst and gesundheit all have in common ?
you guessed it : they all come from the language of goethe , thomas mann and rammstein .
you know more german words than you think you do .
-lrb- 08.08.2006 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's new free podcast .
' clip ' homepage clip no. 6 - klee clip no. 7 - einshoch6 clip no. 8 - johannes stankowski clip no. 9 - the bonny situation subscribe on itunes get the rss feed word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
hits in germany concert hour music this week arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth music dw presents podcasts of performances by top artists at the 2010 beethovenfest .
podcasts on itunes more on beethoven news quiz test your knowledge with the news quiz ! © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german language lover on quest to save " chinglish " -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 21.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle music art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de from the fringe -pipe- 07.05.2009 german language lover on quest to save " chinglish " großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : just one of the thousands of examples to be found in china a german multimedia producer is working hard to preserve chinglish – china 's special version of english – for future generations . for 32-year-old oliver radtke , his fascination with chinglish began in 2000 , when he noticed a sign while in a shanghai taxi : " do n't forget to carry your thing , " it said .
since then , he has published two books on the subject . most recently , " more chinglish - speaking in tongues , " which hit shelves in april . he also maintains a popular online blog .
there is a view held by many in china , and not least by the authorities , that chinglish is an embarrassment that must be wiped out at all costs .
radtke disagrees .
he says the " language " should be preserved .
" there is a lot in chinglish that is so much more than just incompetent english or incorrect english , " he said .
" a lot of the chinglish signs carry a certain chinese notion in them which enriches the english language and makes english more chinese in the sense that there is a certain chinese flavor , a certain chinese way of thinking . "
radtke focuses on written examples of the lingo on signboards , menu cards and shop fronts .
some signs highlighted in his books are decidedly politically incorrect - " cripple 's lane , " rather than " wheelchair path , " or " deformed man toilet , " instead of " handicapped restroom . "
others are more poetic , such as one sign reminding visitors to one section of the great wall of china to be careful : " do not forget the fire is heartless . "
chinese citizens warming to " chinglish " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : oliver 's book " welcome to presence " " the initial reaction of many chinese users was very much against the project .
they thought i was making fun of them , " radtke said .
but he says the chinese are increasingly supportive of his efforts , and many have come to understand that he believes chinglish is in fact enriching the english language .
radtke , as a german , believes the entire notion of one single , standard version of english is outdated because it now has far more than one billion regular users worldwide , and a rapidly growing number speak it as their second language .
in recent years , china has kicked off campaigns to root out poor english grammar and misused vocabulary in official usage .
much to radtke 's horror , the most famous of these drives took place in beijing prior to the olympic games in august last year .
during that time , authorities rechristened the dongda proctology hospital , formerly the dongda anus hospital .
however radtke maintains these campaigns will never fully succeed .
he 's optimistic that chinglish will never disappear from the mainstream .
" i 'm pessimistic when it comes to official signs in the big cities .
but restaurants , companies , private institutions , small shop owners will all produce a lot of chinglish , " he says . cg , dfm afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de eu to english speakers : put your mouth where the money is the european union wants native english speakers to put their mouths where the money is : translation work .
the bloc , which has 23 official languages , is sending out an urgent youtube plea for more english translators .
-lrb- 19.02.2009 -rrb- immigrants help create new type of german language in multicultural urban areas of germany , a new variant of german has evolved with its own grammar and rhythm .
this ethnolect is spoken among young migrants of various ethnic backgrounds as well as young native germans .
-lrb- 08.12.2007 -rrb- wanderlust sends german words traveling what do autobahn , fest , flugelhorn , angst and gesundheit all have in common ?
you guessed it : they all come from the language of goethe , thomas mann and rammstein .
you know more german words than you think you do .
-lrb- 08.08.2006 -rrb- 9801 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
twitter follow dw culture keep up on europe 's culture and lifestyle scene .
cuisine get a taste of europe with these gourmet recipes .
seafood from scotland swedish crispbread saddle of rabbit with asparagus risotto rutabaga soup dumplings with meat filling sweet-savory pheasant from leeds dw-tv : euromaxx podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's new free podcast .
' clip ' homepage clip no. 12 - favorite alt-rockers ja , panik are back subscribe on itunes get the rss feed word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
view from my window radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
soundscape 100 concert hour arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german language lover on quest to save " chinglish " -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de from the fringe -pipe- 07.05.2009 german language lover on quest to save " chinglish " großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : just one of the thousands of examples to be found in china a german multimedia producer is working hard to preserve chinglish – china 's special version of english – for future generations . for 32-year-old oliver radtke , his fascination with chinglish began in 2000 , when he noticed a sign while in a shanghai taxi : " do n't forget to carry your thing , " it said .
since then , he has published two books on the subject . most recently , " more chinglish - speaking in tongues , " which hit shelves in april . he also maintains a popular online blog .
there is a view held by many in china , and not least by the authorities , that chinglish is an embarrassment that must be wiped out at all costs .
radtke disagrees .
he says the " language " should be preserved .
" there is a lot in chinglish that is so much more than just incompetent english or incorrect english , " he said .
" a lot of the chinglish signs carry a certain chinese notion in them which enriches the english language and makes english more chinese in the sense that there is a certain chinese flavor , a certain chinese way of thinking . "
radtke focuses on written examples of the lingo on signboards , menu cards and shop fronts .
some signs highlighted in his books are decidedly politically incorrect - " cripple 's lane , " rather than " wheelchair path , " or " deformed man toilet , " instead of " handicapped restroom . "
others are more poetic , such as one sign reminding visitors to one section of the great wall of china to be careful : " do not forget the fire is heartless . "
chinese citizens warming to " chinglish " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : oliver 's book " welcome to presence " " the initial reaction of many chinese users was very much against the project .
they thought i was making fun of them , " radtke said .
but he says the chinese are increasingly supportive of his efforts , and many have come to understand that he believes chinglish is in fact enriching the english language .
radtke , as a german , believes the entire notion of one single , standard version of english is outdated because it now has far more than one billion regular users worldwide , and a rapidly growing number speak it as their second language .
in recent years , china has kicked off campaigns to root out poor english grammar and misused vocabulary in official usage .
much to radtke 's horror , the most famous of these drives took place in beijing prior to the olympic games in august last year .
during that time , authorities rechristened the dongda proctology hospital , formerly the dongda anus hospital .
however radtke maintains these campaigns will never fully succeed .
he 's optimistic that chinglish will never disappear from the mainstream .
" i 'm pessimistic when it comes to official signs in the big cities .
but restaurants , companies , private institutions , small shop owners will all produce a lot of chinglish , " he says . cg , dfm afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de eu to english speakers : put your mouth where the money is the european union wants native english speakers to put their mouths where the money is : translation work .
the bloc , which has 23 official languages , is sending out an urgent youtube plea for more english translators .
-lrb- 19.02.2009 -rrb- immigrants help create new type of german language in multicultural urban areas of germany , a new variant of german has evolved with its own grammar and rhythm .
this ethnolect is spoken among young migrants of various ethnic backgrounds as well as young native germans .
-lrb- 08.12.2007 -rrb- wanderlust sends german words traveling what do autobahn , fest , flugelhorn , angst and gesundheit all have in common ?
you guessed it : they all come from the language of goethe , thomas mann and rammstein .
you know more german words than you think you do .
-lrb- 08.08.2006 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inspired minds one – to-one with organist , conductor and composer neithard bethke listen live culture calendar october happenings from music and art to film and dance - find out what 's going on in germany 's cultural scene .
music dw presents podcasts of performances by top artists at the 2010 beethovenfest .
podcasts on itunes more on beethoven podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's new free podcast .
clip no. 1 - luis und laserpower clip no. 2 - abel & cain clip no. 3 - baby benzin clip no. 4 - the intersphere clip no. 5 - shantel clip no. 6 - klee subscribe on itunes get the rss feed word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
hits in germany concert hour music this week arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german language lover on quest to save " chinglish " -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 24.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de from the fringe -pipe- 07.05.2009 german language lover on quest to save " chinglish " großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : just one of the thousands of examples to be found in china a german multimedia producer is working hard to preserve chinglish – china 's special version of english – for future generations . for 32-year-old oliver radtke , his fascination with chinglish began in 2000 , when he noticed a sign while in a shanghai taxi : " do n't forget to carry your thing , " it said .
since then , he has published two books on the subject . most recently , " more chinglish - speaking in tongues , " which hit shelves in april . he also maintains a popular online blog .
there is a view held by many in china , and not least by the authorities , that chinglish is an embarrassment that must be wiped out at all costs .
radtke disagrees .
he says the " language " should be preserved .
" there is a lot in chinglish that is so much more than just incompetent english or incorrect english , " he said .
" a lot of the chinglish signs carry a certain chinese notion in them which enriches the english language and makes english more chinese in the sense that there is a certain chinese flavor , a certain chinese way of thinking . "
radtke focuses on written examples of the lingo on signboards , menu cards and shop fronts .
some signs highlighted in his books are decidedly politically incorrect - " cripple 's lane , " rather than " wheelchair path , " or " deformed man toilet , " instead of " handicapped restroom . "
others are more poetic , such as one sign reminding visitors to one section of the great wall of china to be careful : " do not forget the fire is heartless . "
chinese citizens warming to " chinglish " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : oliver 's book " welcome to presence " " the initial reaction of many chinese users was very much against the project .
they thought i was making fun of them , " radtke said .
but he says the chinese are increasingly supportive of his efforts , and many have come to understand that he believes chinglish is in fact enriching the english language .
radtke , as a german , believes the entire notion of one single , standard version of english is outdated because it now has far more than one billion regular users worldwide , and a rapidly growing number speak it as their second language .
in recent years , china has kicked off campaigns to root out poor english grammar and misused vocabulary in official usage .
much to radtke 's horror , the most famous of these drives took place in beijing prior to the olympic games in august last year .
during that time , authorities rechristened the dongda proctology hospital , formerly the dongda anus hospital .
however radtke maintains these campaigns will never fully succeed .
he 's optimistic that chinglish will never disappear from the mainstream .
" i 'm pessimistic when it comes to official signs in the big cities .
but restaurants , companies , private institutions , small shop owners will all produce a lot of chinglish , " he says . cg , dfm afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de eu to english speakers : put your mouth where the money is the european union wants native english speakers to put their mouths where the money is : translation work .
the bloc , which has 23 official languages , is sending out an urgent youtube plea for more english translators .
-lrb- 19.02.2009 -rrb- immigrants help create new type of german language in multicultural urban areas of germany , a new variant of german has evolved with its own grammar and rhythm .
this ethnolect is spoken among young migrants of various ethnic backgrounds as well as young native germans .
-lrb- 08.12.2007 -rrb- wanderlust sends german words traveling what do autobahn , fest , flugelhorn , angst and gesundheit all have in common ?
you guessed it : they all come from the language of goethe , thomas mann and rammstein .
you know more german words than you think you do .
-lrb- 08.08.2006 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
picture gallery christmas markets holiday cheer ís easy to come by during the advent season in germany .
travel explore some of europe 's most fascinating cities with dw-tv 's euromaxx .
athens , greece trieste , italy krakow , poland le mans , france tarragona , spain oslo , norway edinburgh , scotland dresden , germany podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's new free podcast .
' clip ' homepage clip no. 4 - the intersphere clip no. 5 - shantel clip no. 6 - klee clip no. 7 - einshoch6 subscribe on itunes get the rss feed word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
hits in germany concert hour music this week arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth music dw presents podcasts of performances by top artists at the 2010 beethovenfest .
podcasts on itunes more on beethoven © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german language lover on quest to save " chinglish " -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 21.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de from the fringe -pipe- 07.05.2009 german language lover on quest to save " chinglish " großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : just one of the thousands of examples to be found in china a german multimedia producer is working hard to preserve chinglish – china 's special version of english – for future generations . for 32-year-old oliver radtke , his fascination with chinglish began in 2000 , when he noticed a sign while in a shanghai taxi : " do n't forget to carry your thing , " it said .
since then , he has published two books on the subject . most recently , " more chinglish - speaking in tongues , " which hit shelves in april . he also maintains a popular online blog .
there is a view held by many in china , and not least by the authorities , that chinglish is an embarrassment that must be wiped out at all costs .
radtke disagrees .
he says the " language " should be preserved .
" there is a lot in chinglish that is so much more than just incompetent english or incorrect english , " he said .
" a lot of the chinglish signs carry a certain chinese notion in them which enriches the english language and makes english more chinese in the sense that there is a certain chinese flavor , a certain chinese way of thinking . "
radtke focuses on written examples of the lingo on signboards , menu cards and shop fronts .
some signs highlighted in his books are decidedly politically incorrect - " cripple 's lane , " rather than " wheelchair path , " or " deformed man toilet , " instead of " handicapped restroom . "
others are more poetic , such as one sign reminding visitors to one section of the great wall of china to be careful : " do not forget the fire is heartless . "
chinese citizens warming to " chinglish " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : oliver 's book " welcome to presence " " the initial reaction of many chinese users was very much against the project .
they thought i was making fun of them , " radtke said .
but he says the chinese are increasingly supportive of his efforts , and many have come to understand that he believes chinglish is in fact enriching the english language .
radtke , as a german , believes the entire notion of one single , standard version of english is outdated because it now has far more than one billion regular users worldwide , and a rapidly growing number speak it as their second language .
in recent years , china has kicked off campaigns to root out poor english grammar and misused vocabulary in official usage .
much to radtke 's horror , the most famous of these drives took place in beijing prior to the olympic games in august last year .
during that time , authorities rechristened the dongda proctology hospital , formerly the dongda anus hospital .
however radtke maintains these campaigns will never fully succeed .
he 's optimistic that chinglish will never disappear from the mainstream .
" i 'm pessimistic when it comes to official signs in the big cities .
but restaurants , companies , private institutions , small shop owners will all produce a lot of chinglish , " he says . cg , dfm afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de eu to english speakers : put your mouth where the money is the european union wants native english speakers to put their mouths where the money is : translation work .
the bloc , which has 23 official languages , is sending out an urgent youtube plea for more english translators .
-lrb- 19.02.2009 -rrb- immigrants help create new type of german language in multicultural urban areas of germany , a new variant of german has evolved with its own grammar and rhythm .
this ethnolect is spoken among young migrants of various ethnic backgrounds as well as young native germans .
-lrb- 08.12.2007 -rrb- wanderlust sends german words traveling what do autobahn , fest , flugelhorn , angst and gesundheit all have in common ?
you guessed it : they all come from the language of goethe , thomas mann and rammstein .
you know more german words than you think you do .
-lrb- 08.08.2006 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live living in germany listen live culture calendar november happenings from music and art to film and dance - find out what 's going on in germany 's cultural scene .
podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's new free podcast .
' clip ' homepage clip no. 3 - baby benzin clip no. 4 - the intersphere clip no. 5 - shantel clip no. 6 - klee clip no. 7 - einshoch6 subscribe on itunes get the rss feed word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
hits in germany concert hour music this week arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth music dw presents podcasts of performances by top artists at the 2010 beethovenfest .
podcasts on itunes more on beethoven © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
deutsche telekom posts large first-quarter loss -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business 125 years automobile science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de communications -pipe- 07.05.2009 deutsche telekom posts large first-quarter loss großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the loss brings dark clouds to deutsche telekom germany 's telecommunications operator , deutsche telekom , has blamed the economic downturn and intense competition for its first quarter loss of 1.12 billion euros . the bonn-based company announced the big loss for the january-march period , and compared it to the net profit of 924 million euros -lrb- $ 1.2 billion -rrb- it posted in the first quarter of 2008 .
it attributed the loss to a devaluation of its british t-mobile unit and " the strong economic slowdown and more intense competition in the united kingdom . "
however , in a written statement , the telecommunications giant announced it had an increase in total sales , up 6.2 percent on the same period last year .
that was explained by the integration of greek telecom operator ote into deutsche telekom 's books in february .
" the figures we are presenting today show a mixed picture , " deutsche telekom chairman rene obermann said .
" despite the difficult environment in some markets , we are in a relatively stable position , " he added .
meanwhile , the financial times deutschland has reported that telekom plans job cuts in its t-systems unit , saying that 1,500 workers will be laid off .
rene obermann has denied the report . cg / dfm / rm , afp / ap send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de t-mobile rules out compensation after network failure germany 's largest mobile phone operator has ruled out paying compensation after an embarrassing outage in its network left millions of customers without service .
-lrb- 23.04.2009 -rrb- deutsche bank extends ceo 's contract amid first-quarter profits deutsche bank chief josef ackermann has agreed to another three years at the helm , while the bank made good on disastrous 2008 figures by posting impressive first quarter profits .
-lrb- 28.04.2009 -rrb- germany 's munich re posts 2008 profit of 1.5 billion euros munich re , the world 's second biggest re-insurance group , on wednesday posted a net profit of 1.5 billion euros -lrb- $ 1.9 billion -rrb- for 2008 , with a slight gain of around 100 million euros in the last quarter .
-lrb- 04.02.2009 -rrb- 9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx - leben und kultur in europa we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live spectrum more efficient nuclear power , qr code coins , a chemicals in space and the future of nasa 's employees listen live stock exchange today in history 1985 : " live aid " concert dw-tv get an inside look at some of germany 's more unusual companies .
flying the german flag - costly voyages for shipping companies captains in the classroom - rostock 's maritime school organbuilding - the art and craft of the perfect sound saving makes cents – new heating technology for industry © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
deutsche telekom posts large first-quarter loss -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 26.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de communications -pipe- 07.05.2009 deutsche telekom posts large first-quarter loss großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the loss brings dark clouds to deutsche telekom germany 's telecommunications operator , deutsche telekom , has blamed the economic downturn and intense competition for its first quarter loss of 1.12 billion euros . the bonn-based company announced the big loss for the january-march period , and compared it to the net profit of 924 million euros -lrb- $ 1.2 billion -rrb- it posted in the first quarter of 2008 .
it attributed the loss to a devaluation of its british t-mobile unit and " the strong economic slowdown and more intense competition in the united kingdom . "
however , in a written statement , the telecommunications giant announced it had an increase in total sales , up 6.2 percent on the same period last year .
that was explained by the integration of greek telecom operator ote into deutsche telekom 's books in february .
" the figures we are presenting today show a mixed picture , " deutsche telekom chairman rene obermann said .
" despite the difficult environment in some markets , we are in a relatively stable position , " he added .
meanwhile , the financial times deutschland has reported that telekom plans job cuts in its t-systems unit , saying that 1,500 workers will be laid off .
rene obermann has denied the report . cg / dfm / rm , afp / ap send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de t-mobile rules out compensation after network failure germany 's largest mobile phone operator has ruled out paying compensation after an embarrassing outage in its network left millions of customers without service .
-lrb- 23.04.2009 -rrb- deutsche bank extends ceo 's contract amid first-quarter profits deutsche bank chief josef ackermann has agreed to another three years at the helm , while the bank made good on disastrous 2008 figures by posting impressive first quarter profits .
-lrb- 28.04.2009 -rrb- germany 's munich re posts 2008 profit of 1.5 billion euros munich re , the world 's second biggest re-insurance group , on wednesday posted a net profit of 1.5 billion euros -lrb- $ 1.9 billion -rrb- for 2008 , with a slight gain of around 100 million euros in the last quarter .
-lrb- 04.02.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
dw-tv europe live drive it !
we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live pulse taking the pulse of youth culture listen live banking get an inside look at some of germany 's more unusual companies .
fifa women 's world cup - another summer celebration ?
la máquina - tunnel-boring machinery for mexico , part 4 : the breakthrough industrial farming - pigs at dumping prices siematic kitchens - exclusive and expensive stock exchange today in history 1924 : first olympic winter games © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
deutsche telekom posts large first-quarter loss -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 20.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business 125 years automobile science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de communications -pipe- 07.05.2009 deutsche telekom posts large first-quarter loss großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the loss brings dark clouds to deutsche telekom germany 's telecommunications operator , deutsche telekom , has blamed the economic downturn and intense competition for its first quarter loss of 1.12 billion euros . the bonn-based company announced the big loss for the january-march period , and compared it to the net profit of 924 million euros -lrb- $ 1.2 billion -rrb- it posted in the first quarter of 2008 .
it attributed the loss to a devaluation of its british t-mobile unit and " the strong economic slowdown and more intense competition in the united kingdom . "
however , in a written statement , the telecommunications giant announced it had an increase in total sales , up 6.2 percent on the same period last year .
that was explained by the integration of greek telecom operator ote into deutsche telekom 's books in february .
" the figures we are presenting today show a mixed picture , " deutsche telekom chairman rene obermann said .
" despite the difficult environment in some markets , we are in a relatively stable position , " he added .
meanwhile , the financial times deutschland has reported that telekom plans job cuts in its t-systems unit , saying that 1,500 workers will be laid off .
rene obermann has denied the report . cg / dfm / rm , afp / ap send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de t-mobile rules out compensation after network failure germany 's largest mobile phone operator has ruled out paying compensation after an embarrassing outage in its network left millions of customers without service .
-lrb- 23.04.2009 -rrb- deutsche bank extends ceo 's contract amid first-quarter profits deutsche bank chief josef ackermann has agreed to another three years at the helm , while the bank made good on disastrous 2008 figures by posting impressive first quarter profits .
-lrb- 28.04.2009 -rrb- germany 's munich re posts 2008 profit of 1.5 billion euros munich re , the world 's second biggest re-insurance group , on wednesday posted a net profit of 1.5 billion euros -lrb- $ 1.9 billion -rrb- for 2008 , with a slight gain of around 100 million euros in the last quarter .
-lrb- 04.02.2009 -rrb- 9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live stock exchange today in history 1795 : the meter is laid down in paris dw-tv get an inside look at some of germany 's more unusual companies .
well-wrapped - a house journeys to china studio guest : michael hüther düsseldorf - the song contest as an economic factor energy butler - cutting utility bills made easy pumped storage power plant - ecological energy depot in the black forest © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
deutsche telekom posts large first-quarter loss -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 23.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de communications -pipe- 07.05.2009 deutsche telekom posts large first-quarter loss großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the loss brings dark clouds to deutsche telekom germany 's telecommunications operator , deutsche telekom , has blamed the economic downturn and intense competition for its first quarter loss of 1.12 billion euros . the bonn-based company announced the big loss for the january-march period , and compared it to the net profit of 924 million euros -lrb- $ 1.2 billion -rrb- it posted in the first quarter of 2008 .
it attributed the loss to a devaluation of its british t-mobile unit and " the strong economic slowdown and more intense competition in the united kingdom . "
however , in a written statement , the telecommunications giant announced it had an increase in total sales , up 6.2 percent on the same period last year .
that was explained by the integration of greek telecom operator ote into deutsche telekom 's books in february .
" the figures we are presenting today show a mixed picture , " deutsche telekom chairman rene obermann said .
" despite the difficult environment in some markets , we are in a relatively stable position , " he added .
meanwhile , the financial times deutschland has reported that telekom plans job cuts in its t-systems unit , saying that 1,500 workers will be laid off .
rene obermann has denied the report . cg / dfm / rm , afp / ap send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de t-mobile rules out compensation after network failure germany 's largest mobile phone operator has ruled out paying compensation after an embarrassing outage in its network left millions of customers without service .
-lrb- 23.04.2009 -rrb- deutsche bank extends ceo 's contract amid first-quarter profits deutsche bank chief josef ackermann has agreed to another three years at the helm , while the bank made good on disastrous 2008 figures by posting impressive first quarter profits .
-lrb- 28.04.2009 -rrb- germany 's munich re posts 2008 profit of 1.5 billion euros munich re , the world 's second biggest re-insurance group , on wednesday posted a net profit of 1.5 billion euros -lrb- $ 1.9 billion -rrb- for 2008 , with a slight gain of around 100 million euros in the last quarter .
-lrb- 04.02.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live stock exchange today in history 1938 : uranium nuclear fission © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
deutsche telekom posts large first-quarter loss -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 08.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de communications -pipe- 07.05.2009 deutsche telekom posts large first-quarter loss großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the loss brings dark clouds to deutsche telekom germany 's telecommunications operator , deutsche telekom , has blamed the economic downturn and intense competition for its first quarter loss of 1.12 billion euros . the bonn-based company announced the big loss for the january-march period , and compared it to the net profit of 924 million euros -lrb- $ 1.2 billion -rrb- it posted in the first quarter of 2008 .
it attributed the loss to a devaluation of its british t-mobile unit and " the strong economic slowdown and more intense competition in the united kingdom . "
however , in a written statement , the telecommunications giant announced it had an increase in total sales , up 6.2 percent on the same period last year .
that was explained by the integration of greek telecom operator ote into deutsche telekom 's books in february .
" the figures we are presenting today show a mixed picture , " deutsche telekom chairman rene obermann said .
" despite the difficult environment in some markets , we are in a relatively stable position , " he added .
meanwhile , the financial times deutschland has reported that telekom plans job cuts in its t-systems unit , saying that 1,500 workers will be laid off .
rene obermann has denied the report . cg / dfm / rm , afp / ap send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de t-mobile rules out compensation after network failure germany 's largest mobile phone operator has ruled out paying compensation after an embarrassing outage in its network left millions of customers without service .
-lrb- 23.04.2009 -rrb- deutsche bank extends ceo 's contract amid first-quarter profits deutsche bank chief josef ackermann has agreed to another three years at the helm , while the bank made good on disastrous 2008 figures by posting impressive first quarter profits .
-lrb- 28.04.2009 -rrb- germany 's munich re posts 2008 profit of 1.5 billion euros munich re , the world 's second biggest re-insurance group , on wednesday posted a net profit of 1.5 billion euros -lrb- $ 1.9 billion -rrb- for 2008 , with a slight gain of around 100 million euros in the last quarter .
-lrb- 04.02.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week world a global player dw takes a look at china 's rising political influence that has accompanied its economic growth .
labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live pulse listen live stock exchange today in history 1522 : � the world is round ! � © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
deutsche telekom posts large first-quarter loss -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de communications -pipe- 07.05.2009 deutsche telekom posts large first-quarter loss großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the loss brings dark clouds to deutsche telekom germany 's telecommunications operator , deutsche telekom , has blamed the economic downturn and intense competition for its first quarter loss of 1.12 billion euros . the bonn-based company announced the big loss for the january-march period , and compared it to the net profit of 924 million euros -lrb- $ 1.2 billion -rrb- it posted in the first quarter of 2008 .
it attributed the loss to a devaluation of its british t-mobile unit and " the strong economic slowdown and more intense competition in the united kingdom . "
however , in a written statement , the telecommunications giant announced it had an increase in total sales , up 6.2 percent on the same period last year .
that was explained by the integration of greek telecom operator ote into deutsche telekom 's books in february .
" the figures we are presenting today show a mixed picture , " deutsche telekom chairman rene obermann said .
" despite the difficult environment in some markets , we are in a relatively stable position , " he added .
meanwhile , the financial times deutschland has reported that telekom plans job cuts in its t-systems unit , saying that 1,500 workers will be laid off .
rene obermann has denied the report . cg / dfm / rm , afp / ap send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de t-mobile rules out compensation after network failure germany 's largest mobile phone operator has ruled out paying compensation after an embarrassing outage in its network left millions of customers without service .
-lrb- 23.04.2009 -rrb- deutsche bank extends ceo 's contract amid first-quarter profits deutsche bank chief josef ackermann has agreed to another three years at the helm , while the bank made good on disastrous 2008 figures by posting impressive first quarter profits .
-lrb- 28.04.2009 -rrb- germany 's munich re posts 2008 profit of 1.5 billion euros munich re , the world 's second biggest re-insurance group , on wednesday posted a net profit of 1.5 billion euros -lrb- $ 1.9 billion -rrb- for 2008 , with a slight gain of around 100 million euros in the last quarter .
-lrb- 04.02.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week the european business week page listen to european business week labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live stock exchange today in history 1492 : columbus reaches america © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
deutsche telekom posts large first-quarter loss -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 21.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de communications -pipe- 07.05.2009 deutsche telekom posts large first-quarter loss großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the loss brings dark clouds to deutsche telekom germany 's telecommunications operator , deutsche telekom , has blamed the economic downturn and intense competition for its first quarter loss of 1.12 billion euros . the bonn-based company announced the big loss for the january-march period , and compared it to the net profit of 924 million euros -lrb- $ 1.2 billion -rrb- it posted in the first quarter of 2008 .
it attributed the loss to a devaluation of its british t-mobile unit and " the strong economic slowdown and more intense competition in the united kingdom . "
however , in a written statement , the telecommunications giant announced it had an increase in total sales , up 6.2 percent on the same period last year .
that was explained by the integration of greek telecom operator ote into deutsche telekom 's books in february .
" the figures we are presenting today show a mixed picture , " deutsche telekom chairman rene obermann said .
" despite the difficult environment in some markets , we are in a relatively stable position , " he added .
meanwhile , the financial times deutschland has reported that telekom plans job cuts in its t-systems unit , saying that 1,500 workers will be laid off .
rene obermann has denied the report . cg / dfm / rm , afp / ap send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de t-mobile rules out compensation after network failure germany 's largest mobile phone operator has ruled out paying compensation after an embarrassing outage in its network left millions of customers without service .
-lrb- 23.04.2009 -rrb- deutsche bank extends ceo 's contract amid first-quarter profits deutsche bank chief josef ackermann has agreed to another three years at the helm , while the bank made good on disastrous 2008 figures by posting impressive first quarter profits .
-lrb- 28.04.2009 -rrb- germany 's munich re posts 2008 profit of 1.5 billion euros munich re , the world 's second biggest re-insurance group , on wednesday posted a net profit of 1.5 billion euros -lrb- $ 1.9 billion -rrb- for 2008 , with a slight gain of around 100 million euros in the last quarter .
-lrb- 04.02.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live discover germany we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inside europe listen live stock exchange today in history 1942 : the evening before the stalingrad encirclement © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
us-russia arms control deal first step towards global disarmament -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 26.01.2011 home news germany europe world from tierra del fuego to tijuana asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de defense -pipe- 07.05.2009 us-russia arms control deal first step towards global disarmament großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : moscow and washington want to curb nuclear proliferation us and russian officials will begin to negotiate a deal to cut their nuclear weapons arsenals in the coming weeks .
if they succeed , it could convince other nuclear powers to follow suit . the goal is clear and shared by both countries .
russia and the us want to reduce their number of nuclear missiles and replace the old bilateral start arms reduction treaty , which will expire at the end of the year , with a new arms control pact .
a preliminary meeting between the two sides has been described by the russian foreign ministry as " constructive " and " businesslike , " increasing the expectations for a positive outcome .
" i think generally the chances for success are very good " , says oliver meier , international representative of the arms control association .
" both sides on the major issues are really not far apart .
they have the same ideas in mind in terms of overall reductions in warheads , " he added .
" they have the same preferences in terms of having a legally binding , verifiable treaty .
the problem is that the timetable is very challenging because they are aiming for an agreement in the next couple of months and that will be very tough . "
if , as expected , it takes longer to solve the remaining differences , such as whether to include stored warheads as russia wants or not include them as the us wants , the existing start treaty could simply be extended beyond its expiration date at the end of the year .
as an alternative , another similar treaty could be signed until a more ambitious arms deal is reached in a second round of talks .
different categories of nuclear powers bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : barack obama has a long-term vision of a nuclear weapon free world while the prospects to strike a deal with russia look positive , president barack obama has a much loftier vision which he announced in his speech in prague in april : a world free of nuclear weapons .
but could a new arms control agreement between the us and russia , which combined possess at least 90 percent of all nuclear weapons , really put that much pressure on other nuclear powers and launch a global trend towards nuclear disarmament ?
miles pomper , a senior research associate at the center for non-proliferation studies , cautions against unrealistic expectations of a russian-american arms deal on other nations with nuclear weapons .
" what it might do is within the non-proliferation treaty process it would convince other countries of the goodwill of the united states and russia to meet their commitments to make steps toward nuclear disarmament and by doing that those other countries could increase the pressure on the irans and north koreas -lrb- of this world -rrb- to comply with their non-proliferation commitments .
but it 's not a kind of direct correlation . "
the experts point out that it is important to consider that the countries possessing nuclear weapons ca n't simply be lumped together .
the first category of nations , consisting of the states recognized by the nuclear non-proliferation treaty , includes france , britain and china .
getting them involved in arms reduction negotiations would probably be easier than to approach the second group of countries , consisting of india , pakistan , israel and north korea , states that are not formally recognized by the non-proliferation treaty .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : iran and north korea are a risk to regional security , the west says of the official nuclear powers , britain and china tend to be open towards international nuclear disarmament while france has taken a more reluctant stance towards disarmament .
british prime minister gordon brown was speaking about a nuclear free world even before barack obama and china traditionally had voiced a preference for a nuclear weapons free world , the experts point out . it 's a whole different story with the group of unofficial nuclear states .
with them it 's all about regional security , says oliver meier .
" if you go talk about israel of course you have the problem of the middle east , you have the problem of iran and very much will depend on what progress is made in the middle east .
" india and pakistan , of course you have the situation in south asia , the rivalry between those states .
and north korea is anybody 's bet .
that is at the moment very difficult to predict what policy north korea is pursuing . "
political climate has changed bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some in nuclear-armed pakistan harbor hatred of the us and india while it is helpful to keep obama 's vision - a nuclear free world - in mind , it is important to focus on the concrete steps that have to be taken first by russia and the us .
to merely amend or extend the existing start treaty in a first round of negotiations will take time .
to hammer out a new deal with more aggressive cuts in nuclear weapons will require even more patience , says miles pomper .
" just those two negotiations might take all of obama 's first term , assuming there 's a second term .
so i think until you get those you ca n't really judge the third round and maybe bringing other countries into the negotiations . "
obama of course knows himself that the goal of a nuclear free world is a political marathon , not a sprint .
in his speech in prague , he admitted that this goal may not be reached in his lifetime .
still , the global political conditions for a long time have n't been as conducive to nuclear arms reductions as they are right now .
" we now have from a range of people and governments a list of proposals how to move forward towards that goal , " argues oliver meier .
" for the first time in many , many years we have that discussion being led by a range of political actors , but also by the public , who have not taken this goal serious before .
and of course to have the united states in the leadership role has changed the political dynamics a lot . "
author : michael knigge editor : robert mudge send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de obama calls for end to nuclear weapons in prague speech us president barack obama has announced ambitious plans to rid the world of nuclear weapons at a speech in prague .
yet his support for a controversial us missile shield in eastern europe could anger russia .
-lrb- 05.04.2009 -rrb- five security council powers , germany offer direct dialog with iran the five permanent members of the un security council and germany on tuesday offered direct dialogue with iran to solve the ongoing nuclear standoff with the islamic republic .
-lrb- 04.03.2009 -rrb- iran 's new missiles add to europe 's nuclear worries iran alarmed the international community this week by using newly-developed missile technology to launch a satellite into space .
envoys from six countries are meeting in germany on wednesday to plan a response .
-lrb- 04.02.2009 -rrb- north korea says it has reactivated its nuclear program pyongyang says it has reactivated its nuclear program to " bolster the deterrence for self-defence in every way to cope with the increasing military threats from the hostile forces . " -lrb- 25.04.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan latin america take a multimedia journey discover the region and its people news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's newest media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
us-russia arms control deal first step towards global disarmament -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 20.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de defense -pipe- 07.05.2009 us-russia arms control deal first step towards global disarmament großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : moscow and washington want to curb nuclear proliferation us and russian officials will begin to negotiate a deal to cut their nuclear weapons arsenals in the coming weeks .
if they succeed , it could convince other nuclear powers to follow suit . the goal is clear and shared by both countries .
russia and the us want to reduce their number of nuclear missiles and replace the old bilateral start arms reduction treaty , which will expire at the end of the year , with a new arms control pact .
a preliminary meeting between the two sides has been described by the russian foreign ministry as " constructive " and " businesslike , " increasing the expectations for a positive outcome .
" i think generally the chances for success are very good " , says oliver meier , international representative of the arms control association .
" both sides on the major issues are really not far apart .
they have the same ideas in mind in terms of overall reductions in warheads , " he added .
" they have the same preferences in terms of having a legally binding , verifiable treaty .
the problem is that the timetable is very challenging because they are aiming for an agreement in the next couple of months and that will be very tough . "
if , as expected , it takes longer to solve the remaining differences , such as whether to include stored warheads as russia wants or not include them as the us wants , the existing start treaty could simply be extended beyond its expiration date at the end of the year .
as an alternative , another similar treaty could be signed until a more ambitious arms deal is reached in a second round of talks .
different categories of nuclear powers bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : barack obama has a long-term vision of a nuclear weapon free world while the prospects to strike a deal with russia look positive , president barack obama has a much loftier vision which he announced in his speech in prague in april : a world free of nuclear weapons .
but could a new arms control agreement between the us and russia , which combined possess at least 90 percent of all nuclear weapons , really put that much pressure on other nuclear powers and launch a global trend towards nuclear disarmament ?
miles pomper , a senior research associate at the center for non-proliferation studies , cautions against unrealistic expectations of a russian-american arms deal on other nations with nuclear weapons .
" what it might do is within the non-proliferation treaty process it would convince other countries of the goodwill of the united states and russia to meet their commitments to make steps toward nuclear disarmament and by doing that those other countries could increase the pressure on the irans and north koreas -lrb- of this world -rrb- to comply with their non-proliferation commitments .
but it 's not a kind of direct correlation . "
the experts point out that it is important to consider that the countries possessing nuclear weapons ca n't simply be lumped together .
the first category of nations , consisting of the states recognized by the nuclear non-proliferation treaty , includes france , britain and china .
getting them involved in arms reduction negotiations would probably be easier than to approach the second group of countries , consisting of india , pakistan , israel and north korea , states that are not formally recognized by the non-proliferation treaty .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : iran and north korea are a risk to regional security , the west says of the official nuclear powers , britain and china tend to be open towards international nuclear disarmament while france has taken a more reluctant stance towards disarmament .
british prime minister gordon brown was speaking about a nuclear free world even before barack obama and china traditionally had voiced a preference for a nuclear weapons free world , the experts point out . it 's a whole different story with the group of unofficial nuclear states .
with them it 's all about regional security , says oliver meier .
" if you go talk about israel of course you have the problem of the middle east , you have the problem of iran and very much will depend on what progress is made in the middle east .
" india and pakistan , of course you have the situation in south asia , the rivalry between those states .
and north korea is anybody 's bet .
that is at the moment very difficult to predict what policy north korea is pursuing . "
political climate has changed bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some in nuclear-armed pakistan harbor hatred of the us and india while it is helpful to keep obama 's vision - a nuclear free world - in mind , it is important to focus on the concrete steps that have to be taken first by russia and the us .
to merely amend or extend the existing start treaty in a first round of negotiations will take time .
to hammer out a new deal with more aggressive cuts in nuclear weapons will require even more patience , says miles pomper .
" just those two negotiations might take all of obama 's first term , assuming there 's a second term .
so i think until you get those you ca n't really judge the third round and maybe bringing other countries into the negotiations . "
obama of course knows himself that the goal of a nuclear free world is a political marathon , not a sprint .
in his speech in prague , he admitted that this goal may not be reached in his lifetime .
still , the global political conditions for a long time have n't been as conducive to nuclear arms reductions as they are right now .
" we now have from a range of people and governments a list of proposals how to move forward towards that goal , " argues oliver meier .
" for the first time in many , many years we have that discussion being led by a range of political actors , but also by the public , who have not taken this goal serious before .
and of course to have the united states in the leadership role has changed the political dynamics a lot . "
author : michael knigge editor : robert mudge send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de obama calls for end to nuclear weapons in prague speech us president barack obama has announced ambitious plans to rid the world of nuclear weapons at a speech in prague .
yet his support for a controversial us missile shield in eastern europe could anger russia .
-lrb- 05.04.2009 -rrb- five security council powers , germany offer direct dialog with iran the five permanent members of the un security council and germany on tuesday offered direct dialogue with iran to solve the ongoing nuclear standoff with the islamic republic .
-lrb- 04.03.2009 -rrb- iran 's new missiles add to europe 's nuclear worries iran alarmed the international community this week by using newly-developed missile technology to launch a satellite into space .
envoys from six countries are meeting in germany on wednesday to plan a response .
-lrb- 04.02.2009 -rrb- north korea says it has reactivated its nuclear program pyongyang says it has reactivated its nuclear program to " bolster the deterrence for self-defence in every way to cope with the increasing military threats from the hostile forces . " -lrb- 25.04.2009 -rrb- 9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
in depth al qaeda 's future deutsche welle takes a closer look at osama bin laden and the terrorist network he spearheaded .
podcast series omar from senegal advocates for refugees on spanish stages .
listen to the report subscribe to the series on itunes past episodes international conference media representatives around the world gather in bonn to discuss human rights .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
us-russia arms control deal first step towards global disarmament -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 23.12.2010 home news germany europe world from tierra del fuego to tijuana asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de defense -pipe- 07.05.2009 us-russia arms control deal first step towards global disarmament großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : moscow and washington want to curb nuclear proliferation us and russian officials will begin to negotiate a deal to cut their nuclear weapons arsenals in the coming weeks .
if they succeed , it could convince other nuclear powers to follow suit . the goal is clear and shared by both countries .
russia and the us want to reduce their number of nuclear missiles and replace the old bilateral start arms reduction treaty , which will expire at the end of the year , with a new arms control pact .
a preliminary meeting between the two sides has been described by the russian foreign ministry as " constructive " and " businesslike , " increasing the expectations for a positive outcome .
" i think generally the chances for success are very good " , says oliver meier , international representative of the arms control association .
" both sides on the major issues are really not far apart .
they have the same ideas in mind in terms of overall reductions in warheads , " he added .
" they have the same preferences in terms of having a legally binding , verifiable treaty .
the problem is that the timetable is very challenging because they are aiming for an agreement in the next couple of months and that will be very tough . "
if , as expected , it takes longer to solve the remaining differences , such as whether to include stored warheads as russia wants or not include them as the us wants , the existing start treaty could simply be extended beyond its expiration date at the end of the year .
as an alternative , another similar treaty could be signed until a more ambitious arms deal is reached in a second round of talks .
different categories of nuclear powers bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : barack obama has a long-term vision of a nuclear weapon free world while the prospects to strike a deal with russia look positive , president barack obama has a much loftier vision which he announced in his speech in prague in april : a world free of nuclear weapons .
but could a new arms control agreement between the us and russia , which combined possess at least 90 percent of all nuclear weapons , really put that much pressure on other nuclear powers and launch a global trend towards nuclear disarmament ?
miles pomper , a senior research associate at the center for non-proliferation studies , cautions against unrealistic expectations of a russian-american arms deal on other nations with nuclear weapons .
" what it might do is within the non-proliferation treaty process it would convince other countries of the goodwill of the united states and russia to meet their commitments to make steps toward nuclear disarmament and by doing that those other countries could increase the pressure on the irans and north koreas -lrb- of this world -rrb- to comply with their non-proliferation commitments .
but it 's not a kind of direct correlation . "
the experts point out that it is important to consider that the countries possessing nuclear weapons ca n't simply be lumped together .
the first category of nations , consisting of the states recognized by the nuclear non-proliferation treaty , includes france , britain and china .
getting them involved in arms reduction negotiations would probably be easier than to approach the second group of countries , consisting of india , pakistan , israel and north korea , states that are not formally recognized by the non-proliferation treaty .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : iran and north korea are a risk to regional security , the west says of the official nuclear powers , britain and china tend to be open towards international nuclear disarmament while france has taken a more reluctant stance towards disarmament .
british prime minister gordon brown was speaking about a nuclear free world even before barack obama and china traditionally had voiced a preference for a nuclear weapons free world , the experts point out . it 's a whole different story with the group of unofficial nuclear states .
with them it 's all about regional security , says oliver meier .
" if you go talk about israel of course you have the problem of the middle east , you have the problem of iran and very much will depend on what progress is made in the middle east .
" india and pakistan , of course you have the situation in south asia , the rivalry between those states .
and north korea is anybody 's bet .
that is at the moment very difficult to predict what policy north korea is pursuing . "
political climate has changed bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some in nuclear-armed pakistan harbor hatred of the us and india while it is helpful to keep obama 's vision - a nuclear free world - in mind , it is important to focus on the concrete steps that have to be taken first by russia and the us .
to merely amend or extend the existing start treaty in a first round of negotiations will take time .
to hammer out a new deal with more aggressive cuts in nuclear weapons will require even more patience , says miles pomper .
" just those two negotiations might take all of obama 's first term , assuming there 's a second term .
so i think until you get those you ca n't really judge the third round and maybe bringing other countries into the negotiations . "
obama of course knows himself that the goal of a nuclear free world is a political marathon , not a sprint .
in his speech in prague , he admitted that this goal may not be reached in his lifetime .
still , the global political conditions for a long time have n't been as conducive to nuclear arms reductions as they are right now .
" we now have from a range of people and governments a list of proposals how to move forward towards that goal , " argues oliver meier .
" for the first time in many , many years we have that discussion being led by a range of political actors , but also by the public , who have not taken this goal serious before .
and of course to have the united states in the leadership role has changed the political dynamics a lot . "
author : michael knigge editor : robert mudge send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de obama calls for end to nuclear weapons in prague speech us president barack obama has announced ambitious plans to rid the world of nuclear weapons at a speech in prague .
yet his support for a controversial us missile shield in eastern europe could anger russia .
-lrb- 05.04.2009 -rrb- five security council powers , germany offer direct dialog with iran the five permanent members of the un security council and germany on tuesday offered direct dialogue with iran to solve the ongoing nuclear standoff with the islamic republic .
-lrb- 04.03.2009 -rrb- iran 's new missiles add to europe 's nuclear worries iran alarmed the international community this week by using newly-developed missile technology to launch a satellite into space .
envoys from six countries are meeting in germany on wednesday to plan a response .
-lrb- 04.02.2009 -rrb- north korea says it has reactivated its nuclear program pyongyang says it has reactivated its nuclear program to " bolster the deterrence for self-defence in every way to cope with the increasing military threats from the hostile forces . " -lrb- 25.04.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
the road ahead the nato exit strategy aims to hand security to afghan forces , however that is a long way off .
watch the video focus wikileaks read our dw-world focus on the latest wikileaks revelations and their impact around the globe .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan new web site check out deutsche welle 's new asia page in english .
dw asia online latin america take a multimedia journey discover the region and its people news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's newest media partner © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
us-russia arms control deal first step towards global disarmament -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 15.09.2010 home news germany europe world from tierra del fuego to tijuana asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de defense -pipe- 07.05.2009 us-russia arms control deal first step towards global disarmament großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : moscow and washington want to curb nuclear proliferation us and russian officials will begin to negotiate a deal to cut their nuclear weapons arsenals in the coming weeks .
if they succeed , it could convince other nuclear powers to follow suit . the goal is clear and shared by both countries .
russia and the us want to reduce their number of nuclear missiles and replace the old bilateral start arms reduction treaty , which will expire at the end of the year , with a new arms control pact .
a preliminary meeting between the two sides has been described by the russian foreign ministry as " constructive " and " businesslike , " increasing the expectations for a positive outcome .
" i think generally the chances for success are very good " , says oliver meier , international representative of the arms control association .
" both sides on the major issues are really not far apart .
they have the same ideas in mind in terms of overall reductions in warheads , " he added .
" they have the same preferences in terms of having a legally binding , verifiable treaty .
the problem is that the timetable is very challenging because they are aiming for an agreement in the next couple of months and that will be very tough . "
if , as expected , it takes longer to solve the remaining differences , such as whether to include stored warheads as russia wants or not include them as the us wants , the existing start treaty could simply be extended beyond its expiration date at the end of the year .
as an alternative , another similar treaty could be signed until a more ambitious arms deal is reached in a second round of talks .
different categories of nuclear powers bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : barack obama has a long-term vision of a nuclear weapon free world while the prospects to strike a deal with russia look positive , president barack obama has a much loftier vision which he announced in his speech in prague in april : a world free of nuclear weapons .
but could a new arms control agreement between the us and russia , which combined possess at least 90 percent of all nuclear weapons , really put that much pressure on other nuclear powers and launch a global trend towards nuclear disarmament ?
miles pomper , a senior research associate at the center for non-proliferation studies , cautions against unrealistic expectations of a russian-american arms deal on other nations with nuclear weapons .
" what it might do is within the non-proliferation treaty process it would convince other countries of the goodwill of the united states and russia to meet their commitments to make steps toward nuclear disarmament and by doing that those other countries could increase the pressure on the irans and north koreas -lrb- of this world -rrb- to comply with their non-proliferation commitments .
but it 's not a kind of direct correlation . "
the experts point out that it is important to consider that the countries possessing nuclear weapons ca n't simply be lumped together .
the first category of nations , consisting of the states recognized by the nuclear non-proliferation treaty , includes france , britain and china .
getting them involved in arms reduction negotiations would probably be easier than to approach the second group of countries , consisting of india , pakistan , israel and north korea , states that are not formally recognized by the non-proliferation treaty .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : iran and north korea are a risk to regional security , the west says of the official nuclear powers , britain and china tend to be open towards international nuclear disarmament while france has taken a more reluctant stance towards disarmament .
british prime minister gordon brown was speaking about a nuclear free world even before barack obama and china traditionally had voiced a preference for a nuclear weapons free world , the experts point out . it 's a whole different story with the group of unofficial nuclear states .
with them it 's all about regional security , says oliver meier .
" if you go talk about israel of course you have the problem of the middle east , you have the problem of iran and very much will depend on what progress is made in the middle east .
" india and pakistan , of course you have the situation in south asia , the rivalry between those states .
and north korea is anybody 's bet .
that is at the moment very difficult to predict what policy north korea is pursuing . "
political climate has changed bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some in nuclear-armed pakistan harbor hatred of the us and india while it is helpful to keep obama 's vision - a nuclear free world - in mind , it is important to focus on the concrete steps that have to be taken first by russia and the us .
to merely amend or extend the existing start treaty in a first round of negotiations will take time .
to hammer out a new deal with more aggressive cuts in nuclear weapons will require even more patience , says miles pomper .
" just those two negotiations might take all of obama 's first term , assuming there 's a second term .
so i think until you get those you ca n't really judge the third round and maybe bringing other countries into the negotiations . "
obama of course knows himself that the goal of a nuclear free world is a political marathon , not a sprint .
in his speech in prague , he admitted that this goal may not be reached in his lifetime .
still , the global political conditions for a long time have n't been as conducive to nuclear arms reductions as they are right now .
" we now have from a range of people and governments a list of proposals how to move forward towards that goal , " argues oliver meier .
" for the first time in many , many years we have that discussion being led by a range of political actors , but also by the public , who have not taken this goal serious before .
and of course to have the united states in the leadership role has changed the political dynamics a lot . "
author : michael knigge editor : robert mudge send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de obama calls for end to nuclear weapons in prague speech us president barack obama has announced ambitious plans to rid the world of nuclear weapons at a speech in prague .
yet his support for a controversial us missile shield in eastern europe could anger russia .
-lrb- 05.04.2009 -rrb- five security council powers , germany offer direct dialog with iran the five permanent members of the un security council and germany on tuesday offered direct dialogue with iran to solve the ongoing nuclear standoff with the islamic republic .
-lrb- 04.03.2009 -rrb- iran 's new missiles add to europe 's nuclear worries iran alarmed the international community this week by using newly-developed missile technology to launch a satellite into space .
envoys from six countries are meeting in germany on wednesday to plan a response .
-lrb- 04.02.2009 -rrb- north korea says it has reactivated its nuclear program pyongyang says it has reactivated its nuclear program to " bolster the deterrence for self-defence in every way to cope with the increasing military threats from the hostile forces . " -lrb- 25.04.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live challenging talks us secretary of state hillary clinton faces a difficult task at the middle east peace talks .
watch the video afghan elections the us commander in afghanistan , general petraeus , wants more nato troops ahead of elections .
watch the video learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan new web site check out deutsche welle 's new asia page in english .
dw asia online news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's newest media partner latin america take a multimedia journey discover the region and its people © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
us-russia arms control deal first step towards global disarmament -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.10.2010 home news germany europe world from tierra del fuego to tijuana asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de defense -pipe- 07.05.2009 us-russia arms control deal first step towards global disarmament großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : moscow and washington want to curb nuclear proliferation us and russian officials will begin to negotiate a deal to cut their nuclear weapons arsenals in the coming weeks .
if they succeed , it could convince other nuclear powers to follow suit . the goal is clear and shared by both countries .
russia and the us want to reduce their number of nuclear missiles and replace the old bilateral start arms reduction treaty , which will expire at the end of the year , with a new arms control pact .
a preliminary meeting between the two sides has been described by the russian foreign ministry as " constructive " and " businesslike , " increasing the expectations for a positive outcome .
" i think generally the chances for success are very good " , says oliver meier , international representative of the arms control association .
" both sides on the major issues are really not far apart .
they have the same ideas in mind in terms of overall reductions in warheads , " he added .
" they have the same preferences in terms of having a legally binding , verifiable treaty .
the problem is that the timetable is very challenging because they are aiming for an agreement in the next couple of months and that will be very tough . "
if , as expected , it takes longer to solve the remaining differences , such as whether to include stored warheads as russia wants or not include them as the us wants , the existing start treaty could simply be extended beyond its expiration date at the end of the year .
as an alternative , another similar treaty could be signed until a more ambitious arms deal is reached in a second round of talks .
different categories of nuclear powers bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : barack obama has a long-term vision of a nuclear weapon free world while the prospects to strike a deal with russia look positive , president barack obama has a much loftier vision which he announced in his speech in prague in april : a world free of nuclear weapons .
but could a new arms control agreement between the us and russia , which combined possess at least 90 percent of all nuclear weapons , really put that much pressure on other nuclear powers and launch a global trend towards nuclear disarmament ?
miles pomper , a senior research associate at the center for non-proliferation studies , cautions against unrealistic expectations of a russian-american arms deal on other nations with nuclear weapons .
" what it might do is within the non-proliferation treaty process it would convince other countries of the goodwill of the united states and russia to meet their commitments to make steps toward nuclear disarmament and by doing that those other countries could increase the pressure on the irans and north koreas -lrb- of this world -rrb- to comply with their non-proliferation commitments .
but it 's not a kind of direct correlation . "
the experts point out that it is important to consider that the countries possessing nuclear weapons ca n't simply be lumped together .
the first category of nations , consisting of the states recognized by the nuclear non-proliferation treaty , includes france , britain and china .
getting them involved in arms reduction negotiations would probably be easier than to approach the second group of countries , consisting of india , pakistan , israel and north korea , states that are not formally recognized by the non-proliferation treaty .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : iran and north korea are a risk to regional security , the west says of the official nuclear powers , britain and china tend to be open towards international nuclear disarmament while france has taken a more reluctant stance towards disarmament .
british prime minister gordon brown was speaking about a nuclear free world even before barack obama and china traditionally had voiced a preference for a nuclear weapons free world , the experts point out . it 's a whole different story with the group of unofficial nuclear states .
with them it 's all about regional security , says oliver meier .
" if you go talk about israel of course you have the problem of the middle east , you have the problem of iran and very much will depend on what progress is made in the middle east .
" india and pakistan , of course you have the situation in south asia , the rivalry between those states .
and north korea is anybody 's bet .
that is at the moment very difficult to predict what policy north korea is pursuing . "
political climate has changed bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some in nuclear-armed pakistan harbor hatred of the us and india while it is helpful to keep obama 's vision - a nuclear free world - in mind , it is important to focus on the concrete steps that have to be taken first by russia and the us .
to merely amend or extend the existing start treaty in a first round of negotiations will take time .
to hammer out a new deal with more aggressive cuts in nuclear weapons will require even more patience , says miles pomper .
" just those two negotiations might take all of obama 's first term , assuming there 's a second term .
so i think until you get those you ca n't really judge the third round and maybe bringing other countries into the negotiations . "
obama of course knows himself that the goal of a nuclear free world is a political marathon , not a sprint .
in his speech in prague , he admitted that this goal may not be reached in his lifetime .
still , the global political conditions for a long time have n't been as conducive to nuclear arms reductions as they are right now .
" we now have from a range of people and governments a list of proposals how to move forward towards that goal , " argues oliver meier .
" for the first time in many , many years we have that discussion being led by a range of political actors , but also by the public , who have not taken this goal serious before .
and of course to have the united states in the leadership role has changed the political dynamics a lot . "
author : michael knigge editor : robert mudge send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de obama calls for end to nuclear weapons in prague speech us president barack obama has announced ambitious plans to rid the world of nuclear weapons at a speech in prague .
yet his support for a controversial us missile shield in eastern europe could anger russia .
-lrb- 05.04.2009 -rrb- five security council powers , germany offer direct dialog with iran the five permanent members of the un security council and germany on tuesday offered direct dialogue with iran to solve the ongoing nuclear standoff with the islamic republic .
-lrb- 04.03.2009 -rrb- iran 's new missiles add to europe 's nuclear worries iran alarmed the international community this week by using newly-developed missile technology to launch a satellite into space .
envoys from six countries are meeting in germany on wednesday to plan a response .
-lrb- 04.02.2009 -rrb- north korea says it has reactivated its nuclear program pyongyang says it has reactivated its nuclear program to " bolster the deterrence for self-defence in every way to cope with the increasing military threats from the hostile forces . " -lrb- 25.04.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live learning by ear listen live life at gitmo dw-tv visits guantanamo bay for a closer look at the infamous detention camp the report as video on demand learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan new web site check out deutsche welle 's new asia page in english .
dw asia online news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's newest media partner latin america take a multimedia journey discover the region and its people © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
us-russia arms control deal first step towards global disarmament -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 21.11.2010 home news germany europe world from tierra del fuego to tijuana asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de defense -pipe- 07.05.2009 us-russia arms control deal first step towards global disarmament großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : moscow and washington want to curb nuclear proliferation us and russian officials will begin to negotiate a deal to cut their nuclear weapons arsenals in the coming weeks .
if they succeed , it could convince other nuclear powers to follow suit . the goal is clear and shared by both countries .
russia and the us want to reduce their number of nuclear missiles and replace the old bilateral start arms reduction treaty , which will expire at the end of the year , with a new arms control pact .
a preliminary meeting between the two sides has been described by the russian foreign ministry as " constructive " and " businesslike , " increasing the expectations for a positive outcome .
" i think generally the chances for success are very good " , says oliver meier , international representative of the arms control association .
" both sides on the major issues are really not far apart .
they have the same ideas in mind in terms of overall reductions in warheads , " he added .
" they have the same preferences in terms of having a legally binding , verifiable treaty .
the problem is that the timetable is very challenging because they are aiming for an agreement in the next couple of months and that will be very tough . "
if , as expected , it takes longer to solve the remaining differences , such as whether to include stored warheads as russia wants or not include them as the us wants , the existing start treaty could simply be extended beyond its expiration date at the end of the year .
as an alternative , another similar treaty could be signed until a more ambitious arms deal is reached in a second round of talks .
different categories of nuclear powers bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : barack obama has a long-term vision of a nuclear weapon free world while the prospects to strike a deal with russia look positive , president barack obama has a much loftier vision which he announced in his speech in prague in april : a world free of nuclear weapons .
but could a new arms control agreement between the us and russia , which combined possess at least 90 percent of all nuclear weapons , really put that much pressure on other nuclear powers and launch a global trend towards nuclear disarmament ?
miles pomper , a senior research associate at the center for non-proliferation studies , cautions against unrealistic expectations of a russian-american arms deal on other nations with nuclear weapons .
" what it might do is within the non-proliferation treaty process it would convince other countries of the goodwill of the united states and russia to meet their commitments to make steps toward nuclear disarmament and by doing that those other countries could increase the pressure on the irans and north koreas -lrb- of this world -rrb- to comply with their non-proliferation commitments .
but it 's not a kind of direct correlation . "
the experts point out that it is important to consider that the countries possessing nuclear weapons ca n't simply be lumped together .
the first category of nations , consisting of the states recognized by the nuclear non-proliferation treaty , includes france , britain and china .
getting them involved in arms reduction negotiations would probably be easier than to approach the second group of countries , consisting of india , pakistan , israel and north korea , states that are not formally recognized by the non-proliferation treaty .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : iran and north korea are a risk to regional security , the west says of the official nuclear powers , britain and china tend to be open towards international nuclear disarmament while france has taken a more reluctant stance towards disarmament .
british prime minister gordon brown was speaking about a nuclear free world even before barack obama and china traditionally had voiced a preference for a nuclear weapons free world , the experts point out . it 's a whole different story with the group of unofficial nuclear states .
with them it 's all about regional security , says oliver meier .
" if you go talk about israel of course you have the problem of the middle east , you have the problem of iran and very much will depend on what progress is made in the middle east .
" india and pakistan , of course you have the situation in south asia , the rivalry between those states .
and north korea is anybody 's bet .
that is at the moment very difficult to predict what policy north korea is pursuing . "
political climate has changed bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some in nuclear-armed pakistan harbor hatred of the us and india while it is helpful to keep obama 's vision - a nuclear free world - in mind , it is important to focus on the concrete steps that have to be taken first by russia and the us .
to merely amend or extend the existing start treaty in a first round of negotiations will take time .
to hammer out a new deal with more aggressive cuts in nuclear weapons will require even more patience , says miles pomper .
" just those two negotiations might take all of obama 's first term , assuming there 's a second term .
so i think until you get those you ca n't really judge the third round and maybe bringing other countries into the negotiations . "
obama of course knows himself that the goal of a nuclear free world is a political marathon , not a sprint .
in his speech in prague , he admitted that this goal may not be reached in his lifetime .
still , the global political conditions for a long time have n't been as conducive to nuclear arms reductions as they are right now .
" we now have from a range of people and governments a list of proposals how to move forward towards that goal , " argues oliver meier .
" for the first time in many , many years we have that discussion being led by a range of political actors , but also by the public , who have not taken this goal serious before .
and of course to have the united states in the leadership role has changed the political dynamics a lot . "
author : michael knigge editor : robert mudge send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de obama calls for end to nuclear weapons in prague speech us president barack obama has announced ambitious plans to rid the world of nuclear weapons at a speech in prague .
yet his support for a controversial us missile shield in eastern europe could anger russia .
-lrb- 05.04.2009 -rrb- five security council powers , germany offer direct dialog with iran the five permanent members of the un security council and germany on tuesday offered direct dialogue with iran to solve the ongoing nuclear standoff with the islamic republic .
-lrb- 04.03.2009 -rrb- iran 's new missiles add to europe 's nuclear worries iran alarmed the international community this week by using newly-developed missile technology to launch a satellite into space .
envoys from six countries are meeting in germany on wednesday to plan a response .
-lrb- 04.02.2009 -rrb- north korea says it has reactivated its nuclear program pyongyang says it has reactivated its nuclear program to " bolster the deterrence for self-defence in every way to cope with the increasing military threats from the hostile forces . " -lrb- 25.04.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live in-box feedback from around the world listen live journey to mecca follow dw reporter ali almakhlafi on the hajj and get an inside view of the muslim pilgrimage .
ali 's journal : day 5 focus eye on defense nato meets in lisbon from nov .
19-20 for a summit to discuss the new challenges facing the alliance .
focus free at last focus on democracy : myanmar leader aung san suu kyi is free after seven years of house arrest .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan new web site check out deutsche welle 's new asia page in english .
dw asia online latin america take a multimedia journey discover the region and its people news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's newest media partner © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
us-russia arms control deal first step towards global disarmament -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de defense -pipe- 07.05.2009 us-russia arms control deal first step towards global disarmament großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : moscow and washington want to curb nuclear proliferation us and russian officials will begin to negotiate a deal to cut their nuclear weapons arsenals in the coming weeks .
if they succeed , it could convince other nuclear powers to follow suit . the goal is clear and shared by both countries .
russia and the us want to reduce their number of nuclear missiles and replace the old bilateral start arms reduction treaty , which will expire at the end of the year , with a new arms control pact .
a preliminary meeting between the two sides has been described by the russian foreign ministry as " constructive " and " businesslike , " increasing the expectations for a positive outcome .
" i think generally the chances for success are very good " , says oliver meier , international representative of the arms control association .
" both sides on the major issues are really not far apart .
they have the same ideas in mind in terms of overall reductions in warheads , " he added .
" they have the same preferences in terms of having a legally binding , verifiable treaty .
the problem is that the timetable is very challenging because they are aiming for an agreement in the next couple of months and that will be very tough . "
if , as expected , it takes longer to solve the remaining differences , such as whether to include stored warheads as russia wants or not include them as the us wants , the existing start treaty could simply be extended beyond its expiration date at the end of the year .
as an alternative , another similar treaty could be signed until a more ambitious arms deal is reached in a second round of talks .
different categories of nuclear powers bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : barack obama has a long-term vision of a nuclear weapon free world while the prospects to strike a deal with russia look positive , president barack obama has a much loftier vision which he announced in his speech in prague in april : a world free of nuclear weapons .
but could a new arms control agreement between the us and russia , which combined possess at least 90 percent of all nuclear weapons , really put that much pressure on other nuclear powers and launch a global trend towards nuclear disarmament ?
miles pomper , a senior research associate at the center for non-proliferation studies , cautions against unrealistic expectations of a russian-american arms deal on other nations with nuclear weapons .
" what it might do is within the non-proliferation treaty process it would convince other countries of the goodwill of the united states and russia to meet their commitments to make steps toward nuclear disarmament and by doing that those other countries could increase the pressure on the irans and north koreas -lrb- of this world -rrb- to comply with their non-proliferation commitments .
but it 's not a kind of direct correlation . "
the experts point out that it is important to consider that the countries possessing nuclear weapons ca n't simply be lumped together .
the first category of nations , consisting of the states recognized by the nuclear non-proliferation treaty , includes france , britain and china .
getting them involved in arms reduction negotiations would probably be easier than to approach the second group of countries , consisting of india , pakistan , israel and north korea , states that are not formally recognized by the non-proliferation treaty .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : iran and north korea are a risk to regional security , the west says of the official nuclear powers , britain and china tend to be open towards international nuclear disarmament while france has taken a more reluctant stance towards disarmament .
british prime minister gordon brown was speaking about a nuclear free world even before barack obama and china traditionally had voiced a preference for a nuclear weapons free world , the experts point out . it 's a whole different story with the group of unofficial nuclear states .
with them it 's all about regional security , says oliver meier .
" if you go talk about israel of course you have the problem of the middle east , you have the problem of iran and very much will depend on what progress is made in the middle east .
" india and pakistan , of course you have the situation in south asia , the rivalry between those states .
and north korea is anybody 's bet .
that is at the moment very difficult to predict what policy north korea is pursuing . "
political climate has changed bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some in nuclear-armed pakistan harbor hatred of the us and india while it is helpful to keep obama 's vision - a nuclear free world - in mind , it is important to focus on the concrete steps that have to be taken first by russia and the us .
to merely amend or extend the existing start treaty in a first round of negotiations will take time .
to hammer out a new deal with more aggressive cuts in nuclear weapons will require even more patience , says miles pomper .
" just those two negotiations might take all of obama 's first term , assuming there 's a second term .
so i think until you get those you ca n't really judge the third round and maybe bringing other countries into the negotiations . "
obama of course knows himself that the goal of a nuclear free world is a political marathon , not a sprint .
in his speech in prague , he admitted that this goal may not be reached in his lifetime .
still , the global political conditions for a long time have n't been as conducive to nuclear arms reductions as they are right now .
" we now have from a range of people and governments a list of proposals how to move forward towards that goal , " argues oliver meier .
" for the first time in many , many years we have that discussion being led by a range of political actors , but also by the public , who have not taken this goal serious before .
and of course to have the united states in the leadership role has changed the political dynamics a lot . "
author : michael knigge editor : robert mudge send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de obama calls for end to nuclear weapons in prague speech us president barack obama has announced ambitious plans to rid the world of nuclear weapons at a speech in prague .
yet his support for a controversial us missile shield in eastern europe could anger russia .
-lrb- 05.04.2009 -rrb- five security council powers , germany offer direct dialog with iran the five permanent members of the un security council and germany on tuesday offered direct dialogue with iran to solve the ongoing nuclear standoff with the islamic republic .
-lrb- 04.03.2009 -rrb- iran 's new missiles add to europe 's nuclear worries iran alarmed the international community this week by using newly-developed missile technology to launch a satellite into space .
envoys from six countries are meeting in germany on wednesday to plan a response .
-lrb- 04.02.2009 -rrb- north korea says it has reactivated its nuclear program pyongyang says it has reactivated its nuclear program to " bolster the deterrence for self-defence in every way to cope with the increasing military threats from the hostile forces . " -lrb- 25.04.2009 -rrb- 9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
cairo crisis egypt 's military council has warned protesters it will move in to break up the demonstrations .
watch the video in depth focus on libya dw-world looks at the turmoil in libya : what it means for tripoli and the rest of the world .
international conference media representatives around the world gather in bonn to discuss human rights .
podcast series by teaching stand-up comedy , bryan encourages his students to discover their talents .
download the report subscribe to the series on itunes past episodes learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
iceland 's new government plans a bid for eu membership -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 25.01.2011 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de european union -pipe- 07.05.2009 iceland 's new government plans a bid for eu membership großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : iceland wants to join the 27-member bloc iceland is preparing a bid for entry into the european union , just two weeks after the country 's new left-wing government was elected into power . the country ’ s prime minister johanna sigurdardottir announced on state television that she would present a parliamentary bill to authorize the start of membership talks with the european union .
" there will be a government resolution tabled -lrb- on eu talks -rrb- , " prime minister johanna sigurdardottir said .
she did not give a timeframe for when the bill would be put forward , but it ’ s expected that the draft could be introduced as early as next week when parliament convenes . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : johanna sigurdardottir says that eu membership is vital for iceland the move is a u-turn for the small northern atlantic island and it ’ s a development which would have been unthinkable only one year ago .
but then the financial crisis struck and the small country was turned upside down .
on the brink of bankruptcy long before the recession arrived in europe and the us , iceland in the summer of 2008 was already in serious trouble .
late last year the country made headlines as it veered toward bankruptcy .
before the sudden downturn , iceland had been thriving , it ’ s people enjoying a living standard among the highest in the world .
the country ’ s banks epitomized the global credit boom and the capital reykjavik became a hub of international finance .
banks expanded overseas and enjoyed exceptional growth .
on the eve of the credit crunch , iceland ’ s banks held foreign assets worth around ten times the country ’ s gdp .
in 2007 , gdp amounted to around $ 11 billion .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : iceland 's kaupthing bank is now run by the governemt iceland was therefore extremely vulnerable to any disruptions on the international financial markets and when the crisis eventually hit , the country went into a tailspin .
the icelandic crown virtually ceased trading and strict capital control had to be introduced to sustain even the import of vital goods such as food and medicine .
the country 's top banks were all nationalized and iceland needed a $ 10 billion rescue package from the international monetary fund to stay afloat .
painful reforms are underway but unemployment is still on the rise and the economic outlook remains gloomy .
public pressure and growing support for eu membership it was not long until the trouble on the balance sheets translated onto the streets .
in a wave of unrest , citizens expressed their anger and frustration at the government 's handling of affairs .
the country was then run by a coalition headed by the center-right independence party which had dominated icelandic politics for decades .
but after months of increasingly violent protests , the government collapsed early this year .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : popular protests brought down the old government in january 2009 new elections in april saw the social democrats emerge as the strongest party and their leader johanna sigurdardottir became the country 's new prime minister .
the 66-year old left little doubt that she wanted to steer her country closer toward the eu .
" it 's the only option we have to safeguard economic stability in the country , " she said after the elections .
the social democrats ' junior coalition partner , the left-greens , had previously opposed a move toward the european union over fears that reykjavik would have to surrender some of its independence to brussels .
however , many of iceland 's 320,000 inhabitants support the idea of joining the eu and ultimately adopting the euro currency .
a snap opinion poll for state television on wednesday showed that 61.2 percent were in favor of eu talks and only 29.6 percent against it . cg / ai , reuters / dpa send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de albania submits bid for european union membership albania has announced it will apply for membership to the 27-member european union .
but european leaders warn the country has a long road ahead of it before it 's ready to join the bloc .
-lrb- 28.04.2009 -rrb- iceland 's interim leftist government wins resounding election victory iceland 's interim leftist government won a resounding victory in this weekend 's general election as voters punished the conservatives they blame for the country 's economic meltdown seven months ago .
-lrb- 26.04.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
italians hard hit by plastic bag ban east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
iceland 's new government plans a bid for eu membership -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 25.09.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de european union -pipe- 07.05.2009 iceland 's new government plans a bid for eu membership großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : iceland wants to join the 27-member bloc iceland is preparing a bid for entry into the european union , just two weeks after the country 's new left-wing government was elected into power . the country ’ s prime minister johanna sigurdardottir announced on state television that she would present a parliamentary bill to authorize the start of membership talks with the european union .
" there will be a government resolution tabled -lrb- on eu talks -rrb- , " prime minister johanna sigurdardottir said .
she did not give a timeframe for when the bill would be put forward , but it ’ s expected that the draft could be introduced as early as next week when parliament convenes . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : johanna sigurdardottir says that eu membership is vital for iceland the move is a u-turn for the small northern atlantic island and it ’ s a development which would have been unthinkable only one year ago .
but then the financial crisis struck and the small country was turned upside down .
on the brink of bankruptcy long before the recession arrived in europe and the us , iceland in the summer of 2008 was already in serious trouble .
late last year the country made headlines as it veered toward bankruptcy .
before the sudden downturn , iceland had been thriving , it ’ s people enjoying a living standard among the highest in the world .
the country ’ s banks epitomized the global credit boom and the capital reykjavik became a hub of international finance .
banks expanded overseas and enjoyed exceptional growth .
on the eve of the credit crunch , iceland ’ s banks held foreign assets worth around ten times the country ’ s gdp .
in 2007 , gdp amounted to around $ 11 billion .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : iceland 's kaupthing bank is now run by the governemt iceland was therefore extremely vulnerable to any disruptions on the international financial markets and when the crisis eventually hit , the country went into a tailspin .
the icelandic crown virtually ceased trading and strict capital control had to be introduced to sustain even the import of vital goods such as food and medicine .
the country 's top banks were all nationalized and iceland needed a $ 10 billion rescue package from the international monetary fund to stay afloat .
painful reforms are underway but unemployment is still on the rise and the economic outlook remains gloomy .
public pressure and growing support for eu membership it was not long until the trouble on the balance sheets translated onto the streets .
in a wave of unrest , citizens expressed their anger and frustration at the government 's handling of affairs .
the country was then run by a coalition headed by the center-right independence party which had dominated icelandic politics for decades .
but after months of increasingly violent protests , the government collapsed early this year .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : popular protests brought down the old government in january 2009 new elections in april saw the social democrats emerge as the strongest party and their leader johanna sigurdardottir became the country 's new prime minister .
the 66-year old left little doubt that she wanted to steer her country closer toward the eu .
" it 's the only option we have to safeguard economic stability in the country , " she said after the elections .
the social democrats ' junior coalition partner , the left-greens , had previously opposed a move toward the european union over fears that reykjavik would have to surrender some of its independence to brussels .
however , many of iceland 's 320,000 inhabitants support the idea of joining the eu and ultimately adopting the euro currency .
a snap opinion poll for state television on wednesday showed that 61.2 percent were in favor of eu talks and only 29.6 percent against it . cg / ai , reuters / dpa send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de albania submits bid for european union membership albania has announced it will apply for membership to the 27-member european union .
but european leaders warn the country has a long road ahead of it before it 's ready to join the bloc .
-lrb- 28.04.2009 -rrb- iceland 's interim leftist government wins resounding election victory iceland 's interim leftist government won a resounding victory in this weekend 's general election as voters punished the conservatives they blame for the country 's economic meltdown seven months ago .
-lrb- 26.04.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live living in germany listen live people natascha kampusch , the austrian who was kept prisoner from age 10 to 18 , publishes her autobigraphy .
listen to the report postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
postcard from europe : betancourt book sparks controversy in france postcard from europe : technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket are the gay games necessary ?
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
iceland 's new government plans a bid for eu membership -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 20.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de european union -pipe- 07.05.2009 iceland 's new government plans a bid for eu membership großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : iceland wants to join the 27-member bloc iceland is preparing a bid for entry into the european union , just two weeks after the country 's new left-wing government was elected into power . the country ’ s prime minister johanna sigurdardottir announced on state television that she would present a parliamentary bill to authorize the start of membership talks with the european union .
" there will be a government resolution tabled -lrb- on eu talks -rrb- , " prime minister johanna sigurdardottir said .
she did not give a timeframe for when the bill would be put forward , but it ’ s expected that the draft could be introduced as early as next week when parliament convenes . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : johanna sigurdardottir says that eu membership is vital for iceland the move is a u-turn for the small northern atlantic island and it ’ s a development which would have been unthinkable only one year ago .
but then the financial crisis struck and the small country was turned upside down .
on the brink of bankruptcy long before the recession arrived in europe and the us , iceland in the summer of 2008 was already in serious trouble .
late last year the country made headlines as it veered toward bankruptcy .
before the sudden downturn , iceland had been thriving , it ’ s people enjoying a living standard among the highest in the world .
the country ’ s banks epitomized the global credit boom and the capital reykjavik became a hub of international finance .
banks expanded overseas and enjoyed exceptional growth .
on the eve of the credit crunch , iceland ’ s banks held foreign assets worth around ten times the country ’ s gdp .
in 2007 , gdp amounted to around $ 11 billion .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : iceland 's kaupthing bank is now run by the governemt iceland was therefore extremely vulnerable to any disruptions on the international financial markets and when the crisis eventually hit , the country went into a tailspin .
the icelandic crown virtually ceased trading and strict capital control had to be introduced to sustain even the import of vital goods such as food and medicine .
the country 's top banks were all nationalized and iceland needed a $ 10 billion rescue package from the international monetary fund to stay afloat .
painful reforms are underway but unemployment is still on the rise and the economic outlook remains gloomy .
public pressure and growing support for eu membership it was not long until the trouble on the balance sheets translated onto the streets .
in a wave of unrest , citizens expressed their anger and frustration at the government 's handling of affairs .
the country was then run by a coalition headed by the center-right independence party which had dominated icelandic politics for decades .
but after months of increasingly violent protests , the government collapsed early this year .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : popular protests brought down the old government in january 2009 new elections in april saw the social democrats emerge as the strongest party and their leader johanna sigurdardottir became the country 's new prime minister .
the 66-year old left little doubt that she wanted to steer her country closer toward the eu .
" it 's the only option we have to safeguard economic stability in the country , " she said after the elections .
the social democrats ' junior coalition partner , the left-greens , had previously opposed a move toward the european union over fears that reykjavik would have to surrender some of its independence to brussels .
however , many of iceland 's 320,000 inhabitants support the idea of joining the eu and ultimately adopting the euro currency .
a snap opinion poll for state television on wednesday showed that 61.2 percent were in favor of eu talks and only 29.6 percent against it . cg / ai , reuters / dpa send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de albania submits bid for european union membership albania has announced it will apply for membership to the 27-member european union .
but european leaders warn the country has a long road ahead of it before it 's ready to join the bloc .
-lrb- 28.04.2009 -rrb- iceland 's interim leftist government wins resounding election victory iceland 's interim leftist government won a resounding victory in this weekend 's general election as voters punished the conservatives they blame for the country 's economic meltdown seven months ago .
-lrb- 26.04.2009 -rrb- 9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
european ties the queen 's visit has proved to be a landmark in relations between the uk and ireland .
watch the video russia a moscow court postpones an appeal hearing in the case of former oil tycoon mikhail khodorkovsky .
listen to the audio health uk practioners are taking the eu to court over a ban on chinese herbal medicines .
listen to the audio postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
french burqa ban fits secular ideals is berlusconi giving italy a bad name ?
a dubious record for belgium inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
iceland 's new government plans a bid for eu membership -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 22.12.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de european union -pipe- 07.05.2009 iceland 's new government plans a bid for eu membership großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : iceland wants to join the 27-member bloc iceland is preparing a bid for entry into the european union , just two weeks after the country 's new left-wing government was elected into power . the country ’ s prime minister johanna sigurdardottir announced on state television that she would present a parliamentary bill to authorize the start of membership talks with the european union .
" there will be a government resolution tabled -lrb- on eu talks -rrb- , " prime minister johanna sigurdardottir said .
she did not give a timeframe for when the bill would be put forward , but it ’ s expected that the draft could be introduced as early as next week when parliament convenes . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : johanna sigurdardottir says that eu membership is vital for iceland the move is a u-turn for the small northern atlantic island and it ’ s a development which would have been unthinkable only one year ago .
but then the financial crisis struck and the small country was turned upside down .
on the brink of bankruptcy long before the recession arrived in europe and the us , iceland in the summer of 2008 was already in serious trouble .
late last year the country made headlines as it veered toward bankruptcy .
before the sudden downturn , iceland had been thriving , it ’ s people enjoying a living standard among the highest in the world .
the country ’ s banks epitomized the global credit boom and the capital reykjavik became a hub of international finance .
banks expanded overseas and enjoyed exceptional growth .
on the eve of the credit crunch , iceland ’ s banks held foreign assets worth around ten times the country ’ s gdp .
in 2007 , gdp amounted to around $ 11 billion .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : iceland 's kaupthing bank is now run by the governemt iceland was therefore extremely vulnerable to any disruptions on the international financial markets and when the crisis eventually hit , the country went into a tailspin .
the icelandic crown virtually ceased trading and strict capital control had to be introduced to sustain even the import of vital goods such as food and medicine .
the country 's top banks were all nationalized and iceland needed a $ 10 billion rescue package from the international monetary fund to stay afloat .
painful reforms are underway but unemployment is still on the rise and the economic outlook remains gloomy .
public pressure and growing support for eu membership it was not long until the trouble on the balance sheets translated onto the streets .
in a wave of unrest , citizens expressed their anger and frustration at the government 's handling of affairs .
the country was then run by a coalition headed by the center-right independence party which had dominated icelandic politics for decades .
but after months of increasingly violent protests , the government collapsed early this year .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : popular protests brought down the old government in january 2009 new elections in april saw the social democrats emerge as the strongest party and their leader johanna sigurdardottir became the country 's new prime minister .
the 66-year old left little doubt that she wanted to steer her country closer toward the eu .
" it 's the only option we have to safeguard economic stability in the country , " she said after the elections .
the social democrats ' junior coalition partner , the left-greens , had previously opposed a move toward the european union over fears that reykjavik would have to surrender some of its independence to brussels .
however , many of iceland 's 320,000 inhabitants support the idea of joining the eu and ultimately adopting the euro currency .
a snap opinion poll for state television on wednesday showed that 61.2 percent were in favor of eu talks and only 29.6 percent against it . cg / ai , reuters / dpa send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de albania submits bid for european union membership albania has announced it will apply for membership to the 27-member european union .
but european leaders warn the country has a long road ahead of it before it 's ready to join the bloc .
-lrb- 28.04.2009 -rrb- iceland 's interim leftist government wins resounding election victory iceland 's interim leftist government won a resounding victory in this weekend 's general election as voters punished the conservatives they blame for the country 's economic meltdown seven months ago .
-lrb- 26.04.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live europa aktuell we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live world in progress development in a globalized world listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
iceland 's new government plans a bid for eu membership -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 31.10.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de european union -pipe- 07.05.2009 iceland 's new government plans a bid for eu membership großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : iceland wants to join the 27-member bloc iceland is preparing a bid for entry into the european union , just two weeks after the country 's new left-wing government was elected into power . the country ’ s prime minister johanna sigurdardottir announced on state television that she would present a parliamentary bill to authorize the start of membership talks with the european union .
" there will be a government resolution tabled -lrb- on eu talks -rrb- , " prime minister johanna sigurdardottir said .
she did not give a timeframe for when the bill would be put forward , but it ’ s expected that the draft could be introduced as early as next week when parliament convenes . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : johanna sigurdardottir says that eu membership is vital for iceland the move is a u-turn for the small northern atlantic island and it ’ s a development which would have been unthinkable only one year ago .
but then the financial crisis struck and the small country was turned upside down .
on the brink of bankruptcy long before the recession arrived in europe and the us , iceland in the summer of 2008 was already in serious trouble .
late last year the country made headlines as it veered toward bankruptcy .
before the sudden downturn , iceland had been thriving , it ’ s people enjoying a living standard among the highest in the world .
the country ’ s banks epitomized the global credit boom and the capital reykjavik became a hub of international finance .
banks expanded overseas and enjoyed exceptional growth .
on the eve of the credit crunch , iceland ’ s banks held foreign assets worth around ten times the country ’ s gdp .
in 2007 , gdp amounted to around $ 11 billion .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : iceland 's kaupthing bank is now run by the governemt iceland was therefore extremely vulnerable to any disruptions on the international financial markets and when the crisis eventually hit , the country went into a tailspin .
the icelandic crown virtually ceased trading and strict capital control had to be introduced to sustain even the import of vital goods such as food and medicine .
the country 's top banks were all nationalized and iceland needed a $ 10 billion rescue package from the international monetary fund to stay afloat .
painful reforms are underway but unemployment is still on the rise and the economic outlook remains gloomy .
public pressure and growing support for eu membership it was not long until the trouble on the balance sheets translated onto the streets .
in a wave of unrest , citizens expressed their anger and frustration at the government 's handling of affairs .
the country was then run by a coalition headed by the center-right independence party which had dominated icelandic politics for decades .
but after months of increasingly violent protests , the government collapsed early this year .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : popular protests brought down the old government in january 2009 new elections in april saw the social democrats emerge as the strongest party and their leader johanna sigurdardottir became the country 's new prime minister .
the 66-year old left little doubt that she wanted to steer her country closer toward the eu .
" it 's the only option we have to safeguard economic stability in the country , " she said after the elections .
the social democrats ' junior coalition partner , the left-greens , had previously opposed a move toward the european union over fears that reykjavik would have to surrender some of its independence to brussels .
however , many of iceland 's 320,000 inhabitants support the idea of joining the eu and ultimately adopting the euro currency .
a snap opinion poll for state television on wednesday showed that 61.2 percent were in favor of eu talks and only 29.6 percent against it . cg / ai , reuters / dpa send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de albania submits bid for european union membership albania has announced it will apply for membership to the 27-member european union .
but european leaders warn the country has a long road ahead of it before it 's ready to join the bloc .
-lrb- 28.04.2009 -rrb- iceland 's interim leftist government wins resounding election victory iceland 's interim leftist government won a resounding victory in this weekend 's general election as voters punished the conservatives they blame for the country 's economic meltdown seven months ago .
-lrb- 26.04.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live radio d listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
postcard from europe : the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
iceland 's new government plans a bid for eu membership -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de european union -pipe- 07.05.2009 iceland 's new government plans a bid for eu membership großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : iceland wants to join the 27-member bloc iceland is preparing a bid for entry into the european union , just two weeks after the country 's new left-wing government was elected into power . the country ’ s prime minister johanna sigurdardottir announced on state television that she would present a parliamentary bill to authorize the start of membership talks with the european union .
" there will be a government resolution tabled -lrb- on eu talks -rrb- , " prime minister johanna sigurdardottir said .
she did not give a timeframe for when the bill would be put forward , but it ’ s expected that the draft could be introduced as early as next week when parliament convenes . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : johanna sigurdardottir says that eu membership is vital for iceland the move is a u-turn for the small northern atlantic island and it ’ s a development which would have been unthinkable only one year ago .
but then the financial crisis struck and the small country was turned upside down .
on the brink of bankruptcy long before the recession arrived in europe and the us , iceland in the summer of 2008 was already in serious trouble .
late last year the country made headlines as it veered toward bankruptcy .
before the sudden downturn , iceland had been thriving , it ’ s people enjoying a living standard among the highest in the world .
the country ’ s banks epitomized the global credit boom and the capital reykjavik became a hub of international finance .
banks expanded overseas and enjoyed exceptional growth .
on the eve of the credit crunch , iceland ’ s banks held foreign assets worth around ten times the country ’ s gdp .
in 2007 , gdp amounted to around $ 11 billion .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : iceland 's kaupthing bank is now run by the governemt iceland was therefore extremely vulnerable to any disruptions on the international financial markets and when the crisis eventually hit , the country went into a tailspin .
the icelandic crown virtually ceased trading and strict capital control had to be introduced to sustain even the import of vital goods such as food and medicine .
the country 's top banks were all nationalized and iceland needed a $ 10 billion rescue package from the international monetary fund to stay afloat .
painful reforms are underway but unemployment is still on the rise and the economic outlook remains gloomy .
public pressure and growing support for eu membership it was not long until the trouble on the balance sheets translated onto the streets .
in a wave of unrest , citizens expressed their anger and frustration at the government 's handling of affairs .
the country was then run by a coalition headed by the center-right independence party which had dominated icelandic politics for decades .
but after months of increasingly violent protests , the government collapsed early this year .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : popular protests brought down the old government in january 2009 new elections in april saw the social democrats emerge as the strongest party and their leader johanna sigurdardottir became the country 's new prime minister .
the 66-year old left little doubt that she wanted to steer her country closer toward the eu .
" it 's the only option we have to safeguard economic stability in the country , " she said after the elections .
the social democrats ' junior coalition partner , the left-greens , had previously opposed a move toward the european union over fears that reykjavik would have to surrender some of its independence to brussels .
however , many of iceland 's 320,000 inhabitants support the idea of joining the eu and ultimately adopting the euro currency .
a snap opinion poll for state television on wednesday showed that 61.2 percent were in favor of eu talks and only 29.6 percent against it . cg / ai , reuters / dpa send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de albania submits bid for european union membership albania has announced it will apply for membership to the 27-member european union .
but european leaders warn the country has a long road ahead of it before it 's ready to join the bloc .
-lrb- 28.04.2009 -rrb- iceland 's interim leftist government wins resounding election victory iceland 's interim leftist government won a resounding victory in this weekend 's general election as voters punished the conservatives they blame for the country 's economic meltdown seven months ago .
-lrb- 26.04.2009 -rrb- 9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - news with in depth we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
unemployment facing high unemployment at home , many young spaniards are trying their luck in germany .
watch the video world war ii nazi leader adolf hitler 's austrian birthplace kicks him off its list of honorary citizens .
listen to the audio tour de danger two accidents involving media vehicles has some wondering if the tour de france is too dangerous .
listen to the audio transport with fuel prices at record highs , germans head to luxembourg to take advantage of low fuel tax .
listen to the audio inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
georgian opposition clash with police as nato war games begin -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 14.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de georgia -pipe- 07.05.2009 georgian opposition clash with police as nato war games begin großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the nato military exercises that include computer training have flared tensions with georgia 's former soviet master , russia .
riot police in georgia clashed with anti-government officials during a late night rally , attempting to disrupt the kick off of nato 's controversial military exercises . it was the first major outbreak of violence in what 's now been a month of demonstrations against georgia 's president in the capital , tbilisi .
thousands of protestors converged on parliament to demand president mikhail saakashvili 's resignation , as well as the release of three jailed supporters .
georgia 's interior ministry spokesman shota utiashvili said police used truncheons to beat back protesters who were climbing over a fence surrounding the building .
nato exercises reignite georgia-russia tension the month-long nato training activities began on wednesday , and are part of a simulated crisis response operation and peacekeeping exercises .
they will involve at least 1,100 soldiers from 10 nato countries and six of the alliance 's " partner " countries .
the military exercises are being held at a georgian military base formerly used by the russian air force .
the operations have strained ties further between the ex-soviet georgia and its cold war-era rival .
russia fiercely objects to georgia hosting the operation , saying it threatens stability in the region .
earlier in the week , georgia accused russia of backing a brief military mutiny that allegedly included a plot to assassinate the president . cg / rm , reuters / afp / ap send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de nato denies georgia war-games agenda russian anger simmers as a month of partnership for peace -lrb- pfp -rrb- military exercises featuring nato states starts in georgia .
but nato claims that there is no agenda and that moscow was fully informed .
-lrb- 05.05.2009 -rrb- nato expels russian diplomats from brussels amid spying row nato has ordered the expulsion of two diplomats from russia 's nato mission in connection with a spy scandal - a move moscow calls a " provocation . " -lrb- 30.04.2009 -rrb- nato and russia resume formal ties after an eight-month freeze , nato and russia have once again taken up official relations .
but while a dialogue has resumed , disagreement between the two sides still exists .
-lrb- 29.04.2009 -rrb- 9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
cairo crisis egypt 's military council has warned protesters it will move in to break up the demonstrations .
watch the video in depth focus on libya dw-world looks at the turmoil in libya : what it means for tripoli and the rest of the world .
international conference media representatives around the world gather in bonn to discuss human rights .
podcast series by teaching stand-up comedy , bryan encourages his students to discover their talents .
download the report subscribe to the series on itunes past episodes learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
georgian opposition clash with police as nato war games begin -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.01.2011 home news germany europe world from tierra del fuego to tijuana asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de georgia -pipe- 07.05.2009 georgian opposition clash with police as nato war games begin großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the nato military exercises that include computer training have flared tensions with georgia 's former soviet master , russia .
riot police in georgia clashed with anti-government officials during a late night rally , attempting to disrupt the kick off of nato 's controversial military exercises . it was the first major outbreak of violence in what 's now been a month of demonstrations against georgia 's president in the capital , tbilisi .
thousands of protestors converged on parliament to demand president mikhail saakashvili 's resignation , as well as the release of three jailed supporters .
georgia 's interior ministry spokesman shota utiashvili said police used truncheons to beat back protesters who were climbing over a fence surrounding the building .
nato exercises reignite georgia-russia tension the month-long nato training activities began on wednesday , and are part of a simulated crisis response operation and peacekeeping exercises .
they will involve at least 1,100 soldiers from 10 nato countries and six of the alliance 's " partner " countries .
the military exercises are being held at a georgian military base formerly used by the russian air force .
the operations have strained ties further between the ex-soviet georgia and its cold war-era rival .
russia fiercely objects to georgia hosting the operation , saying it threatens stability in the region .
earlier in the week , georgia accused russia of backing a brief military mutiny that allegedly included a plot to assassinate the president . cg / rm , reuters / afp / ap send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de nato denies georgia war-games agenda russian anger simmers as a month of partnership for peace -lrb- pfp -rrb- military exercises featuring nato states starts in georgia .
but nato claims that there is no agenda and that moscow was fully informed .
-lrb- 05.05.2009 -rrb- nato expels russian diplomats from brussels amid spying row nato has ordered the expulsion of two diplomats from russia 's nato mission in connection with a spy scandal - a move moscow calls a " provocation . " -lrb- 30.04.2009 -rrb- nato and russia resume formal ties after an eight-month freeze , nato and russia have once again taken up official relations .
but while a dialogue has resumed , disagreement between the two sides still exists .
-lrb- 29.04.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan latin america take a multimedia journey discover the region and its people news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's newest media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
georgian opposition clash with police as nato war games begin -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 26.09.2010 home news germany europe world from tierra del fuego to tijuana asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de georgia -pipe- 07.05.2009 georgian opposition clash with police as nato war games begin großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the nato military exercises that include computer training have flared tensions with georgia 's former soviet master , russia .
riot police in georgia clashed with anti-government officials during a late night rally , attempting to disrupt the kick off of nato 's controversial military exercises . it was the first major outbreak of violence in what 's now been a month of demonstrations against georgia 's president in the capital , tbilisi .
thousands of protestors converged on parliament to demand president mikhail saakashvili 's resignation , as well as the release of three jailed supporters .
georgia 's interior ministry spokesman shota utiashvili said police used truncheons to beat back protesters who were climbing over a fence surrounding the building .
nato exercises reignite georgia-russia tension the month-long nato training activities began on wednesday , and are part of a simulated crisis response operation and peacekeeping exercises .
they will involve at least 1,100 soldiers from 10 nato countries and six of the alliance 's " partner " countries .
the military exercises are being held at a georgian military base formerly used by the russian air force .
the operations have strained ties further between the ex-soviet georgia and its cold war-era rival .
russia fiercely objects to georgia hosting the operation , saying it threatens stability in the region .
earlier in the week , georgia accused russia of backing a brief military mutiny that allegedly included a plot to assassinate the president . cg / rm , reuters / afp / ap send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de nato denies georgia war-games agenda russian anger simmers as a month of partnership for peace -lrb- pfp -rrb- military exercises featuring nato states starts in georgia .
but nato claims that there is no agenda and that moscow was fully informed .
-lrb- 05.05.2009 -rrb- nato expels russian diplomats from brussels amid spying row nato has ordered the expulsion of two diplomats from russia 's nato mission in connection with a spy scandal - a move moscow calls a " provocation . " -lrb- 30.04.2009 -rrb- nato and russia resume formal ties after an eight-month freeze , nato and russia have once again taken up official relations .
but while a dialogue has resumed , disagreement between the two sides still exists .
-lrb- 29.04.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inspired minds one to one with pianist hélène grimaud – part 1 listen live no nukes critics say us president obama 's latest push for a world free of nuclear weapons is unrealistic .
watch the video learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan new web site check out deutsche welle 's new asia page in english .
dw asia online news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's newest media partner latin america take a multimedia journey discover the region and its people © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
georgian opposition clash with police as nato war games begin -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 21.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de georgia -pipe- 07.05.2009 georgian opposition clash with police as nato war games begin großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the nato military exercises that include computer training have flared tensions with georgia 's former soviet master , russia .
riot police in georgia clashed with anti-government officials during a late night rally , attempting to disrupt the kick off of nato 's controversial military exercises . it was the first major outbreak of violence in what 's now been a month of demonstrations against georgia 's president in the capital , tbilisi .
thousands of protestors converged on parliament to demand president mikhail saakashvili 's resignation , as well as the release of three jailed supporters .
georgia 's interior ministry spokesman shota utiashvili said police used truncheons to beat back protesters who were climbing over a fence surrounding the building .
nato exercises reignite georgia-russia tension the month-long nato training activities began on wednesday , and are part of a simulated crisis response operation and peacekeeping exercises .
they will involve at least 1,100 soldiers from 10 nato countries and six of the alliance 's " partner " countries .
the military exercises are being held at a georgian military base formerly used by the russian air force .
the operations have strained ties further between the ex-soviet georgia and its cold war-era rival .
russia fiercely objects to georgia hosting the operation , saying it threatens stability in the region .
earlier in the week , georgia accused russia of backing a brief military mutiny that allegedly included a plot to assassinate the president . cg / rm , reuters / afp / ap send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de nato denies georgia war-games agenda russian anger simmers as a month of partnership for peace -lrb- pfp -rrb- military exercises featuring nato states starts in georgia .
but nato claims that there is no agenda and that moscow was fully informed .
-lrb- 05.05.2009 -rrb- nato expels russian diplomats from brussels amid spying row nato has ordered the expulsion of two diplomats from russia 's nato mission in connection with a spy scandal - a move moscow calls a " provocation . " -lrb- 30.04.2009 -rrb- nato and russia resume formal ties after an eight-month freeze , nato and russia have once again taken up official relations .
but while a dialogue has resumed , disagreement between the two sides still exists .
-lrb- 29.04.2009 -rrb- 9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
in depth al qaeda 's future deutsche welle takes a closer look at osama bin laden and the terrorist network he spearheaded .
podcast series omar from senegal advocates for refugees on spanish stages .
listen to the report subscribe to the series on itunes past episodes international conference media representatives around the world gather in bonn to discuss human rights .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
georgian opposition clash with police as nato war games begin -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 01.11.2010 home news germany europe world from tierra del fuego to tijuana asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de georgia -pipe- 07.05.2009 georgian opposition clash with police as nato war games begin großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the nato military exercises that include computer training have flared tensions with georgia 's former soviet master , russia .
riot police in georgia clashed with anti-government officials during a late night rally , attempting to disrupt the kick off of nato 's controversial military exercises . it was the first major outbreak of violence in what 's now been a month of demonstrations against georgia 's president in the capital , tbilisi .
thousands of protestors converged on parliament to demand president mikhail saakashvili 's resignation , as well as the release of three jailed supporters .
georgia 's interior ministry spokesman shota utiashvili said police used truncheons to beat back protesters who were climbing over a fence surrounding the building .
nato exercises reignite georgia-russia tension the month-long nato training activities began on wednesday , and are part of a simulated crisis response operation and peacekeeping exercises .
they will involve at least 1,100 soldiers from 10 nato countries and six of the alliance 's " partner " countries .
the military exercises are being held at a georgian military base formerly used by the russian air force .
the operations have strained ties further between the ex-soviet georgia and its cold war-era rival .
russia fiercely objects to georgia hosting the operation , saying it threatens stability in the region .
earlier in the week , georgia accused russia of backing a brief military mutiny that allegedly included a plot to assassinate the president . cg / rm , reuters / afp / ap send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de nato denies georgia war-games agenda russian anger simmers as a month of partnership for peace -lrb- pfp -rrb- military exercises featuring nato states starts in georgia .
but nato claims that there is no agenda and that moscow was fully informed .
-lrb- 05.05.2009 -rrb- nato expels russian diplomats from brussels amid spying row nato has ordered the expulsion of two diplomats from russia 's nato mission in connection with a spy scandal - a move moscow calls a " provocation . " -lrb- 30.04.2009 -rrb- nato and russia resume formal ties after an eight-month freeze , nato and russia have once again taken up official relations .
but while a dialogue has resumed , disagreement between the two sides still exists .
-lrb- 29.04.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live in focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live hits in germany pop from the german top 100 listen live learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan new web site check out deutsche welle 's new asia page in english .
dw asia online news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's newest media partner latin america take a multimedia journey discover the region and its people © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
prague summit to launch " eastern partnership " -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 26.01.2011 home news germany europe world from tierra del fuego to tijuana asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de european ties -pipe- 07.05.2009 prague summit to launch " eastern partnership " großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the " eastern partnership " is the brain child of poland and sweden good neighborhood policy is normally on the agenda of the eu rotating presidency .
but the nation at the helm determines which neighbors take priority .
that sweden takes over soon is good news for the eu 's eastern flank . when france was in charge during the second half of 2008 , president nicolas sarkozy made relations with his country 's mediterranean rim neighbors the cornerstone of his six month eu presidency .
membership in sarkozy 's " club med " was based on sharing a common mediterranean coastline , so morocco , turkey , israel and syria met the geographical criteria .
the idea was to provide an eu-mediterranean forum for tackling regional issues such as illegal boat migration from africa , combating terrorism and cleaning up the polluted sea .
the mediterranean union 's inaugural summit last july represented a milestone in bringing the heads of state of israel and its middle east adversaries together in paris , but the french eu initiative had already lost steam by the start of the czech republic 's presidency in january 2009 .
now with less than two months left of prague 's beleaguered eu presidency , the 27 nation bloc 's priorities have shifted northwards and eastwards geographically .
czech prime minister mirek topolanek was ousted last month and will be replaced on may 8 by an interim government .
topolanek 's successor jan fischer takes over the day after the eu launches its " eastern partnership " -lrb- ep -rrb- with six post-soviet states- armenia , azerbaijan , belarus , georgia , moldova and ukraine- at a summit in prague on may 7 .
eu wants stable eastern neighbors bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : eu commission president jose manuel barroso and his commissioners do n't want a new " iron curtain " eu officials say that the goal of the initiative is to help stabilize and modernize the states created from the break-up of the former soviet union by bringing in free markets and pro-democracy reforms .
the russia-georgia war last august over the breakaway province of south ossetia further underscored the eu 's need to " engage more deeply with its eastern neighbors to stabilize the region , " says sabine fischer , a russia and cis expert at the eu institute for security studies -lrb- euiss -rrb- in paris . then there is belarus , formerly called belorussia or white russia , which the eu has long regarded as the black sheep of the post-soviet cis states .
its president alexander lukashenko , who earned the reputation of being " europe 's last dictator " for his government 's dubious human rights record , had even been placed under an eu travel ban , which was lifted last october .
but now that lukaschenko has said he wants to normalize " difficult " relations with the eu , belarus has been invited to participate in the prague summit on a technical level .
however lukaschenko himself will not attend the summit sending instead his deputy vladimir semachko .
russia makes some noise bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : russian foreign minister sergey lavrov speaks out at last month 's annual brussels forum meeting in brussels since belarus is one of the kremlin 's closest allies , russia foreign minister sergei lavrov expressed his dismay over the eastern partnership at a meeting with eu diplomats in luxembourg on april 28 , saying that " any processes leading to developments within the eu … should ensure no overlap in the post-soviet area . " although moscow 's political leaders see an encroachment on their former " sphere of influence " , their bark is louder than their bite , according to russia analysts .
" russia 's political leadership does not really feel threatened by the eu 's rapprochement with the post-soviet states , " said fischer .
" its leaders are more relaxed with the eu , as opposed to nato , " she added .
stefan meister of the german council on foreign relations -lrb- dgap -rrb- who sees the eastern partnership as a regional grouping similar to the mediterranean union , thinks that lavrov might have felt slighted by being left out of the new initiative .
" but he also understands that this can be a typical eu initiative with a lot of talk , but maybe not much happening , " he said .
extension of existing eu structure the eastern partnership , which would be embedded in an existing structure called the european neighbourhood policy -lrb- enp -rrb- , emerged last year as the brainchild of poland and sweden .
enp was created in 2004 when the eu expanded eastwards to include the former soviet satellite states in the bloc , whose membership jumped from 15 to 25 .
romania and bulgaria later joined the eu in 2007 .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : south ossetian separatist fighters celebrate russian recognition of the breakaway georgian territories of south ossetia and abkhazia its initial objective was to minimize the impact of a new iron curtain between the enlarged eu and the neighboring post-soviet states even further east , by offering a privileged partnership based on a commitment to democratic values and market principles .
the eastern partnership builds up a stronger regional dimension that goes further than the enp , says oksana antonenko , a senior russia analyst at the international institute for strategic studies in london .
enp offers bilateral relations with all countries that border the entire eu by land and sea , including the mediterranean union countries , whereas the ep is a multilateral agreement involving only six countries , she explained .
" the ep opens the door to potentially deeper multi-speed integration with the eu on matters such as visa-free travel or free trade , " said antonenko , who explained that member states could keep progressing to a higher level of cooperation with the eu " a la carte " on a specific issue .
not a stepping stone to join the eu the partnership offers carrots to encourage political and economic reforms , but it is not a stepping stone to eventual eu membership , says dgap 's meister , who characterizes the ep as an alternative to joining the eu .
" it brings the six -lrb- cis -rrb- states closer to the value system of the eu and offers them something like a customs union , but maybe not what they really want - the perspective of eu membership down the road , " he said .
ukraine is eager to join the eu club , but the bloc is suffering from enlargement fatigue and the lisbon treaty , that is supposed to streamline decision-making , still hangs in the balance . one of the lisbon treaty 's goals is to create a more permanent eu presidency filled by a high profile politician for a period of two-and-a-half years to replace the current six month rotating system . when the czech term ends at the end of june , the swedes will take over , a stroke of luck for the eastern partnership , according to fischer .
" the swedes are going to put a strong emphasis on this -lrb- northeastern -rrb- region , " she said .
" after all , the ep was their initiative . " author : diana fong editor : susan houlton send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan latin america take a multimedia journey discover the region and its people news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's newest media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
prague summit to launch " eastern partnership " -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 21.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de european ties -pipe- 07.05.2009 prague summit to launch " eastern partnership " großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the " eastern partnership " is the brain child of poland and sweden good neighborhood policy is normally on the agenda of the eu rotating presidency .
but the nation at the helm determines which neighbors take priority .
that sweden takes over soon is good news for the eu 's eastern flank . when france was in charge during the second half of 2008 , president nicolas sarkozy made relations with his country 's mediterranean rim neighbors the cornerstone of his six month eu presidency .
membership in sarkozy 's " club med " was based on sharing a common mediterranean coastline , so morocco , turkey , israel and syria met the geographical criteria .
the idea was to provide an eu-mediterranean forum for tackling regional issues such as illegal boat migration from africa , combating terrorism and cleaning up the polluted sea .
the mediterranean union 's inaugural summit last july represented a milestone in bringing the heads of state of israel and its middle east adversaries together in paris , but the french eu initiative had already lost steam by the start of the czech republic 's presidency in january 2009 .
now with less than two months left of prague 's beleaguered eu presidency , the 27 nation bloc 's priorities have shifted northwards and eastwards geographically .
czech prime minister mirek topolanek was ousted last month and will be replaced on may 8 by an interim government .
topolanek 's successor jan fischer takes over the day after the eu launches its " eastern partnership " -lrb- ep -rrb- with six post-soviet states- armenia , azerbaijan , belarus , georgia , moldova and ukraine- at a summit in prague on may 7 .
eu wants stable eastern neighbors bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : eu commission president jose manuel barroso and his commissioners do n't want a new " iron curtain " eu officials say that the goal of the initiative is to help stabilize and modernize the states created from the break-up of the former soviet union by bringing in free markets and pro-democracy reforms .
the russia-georgia war last august over the breakaway province of south ossetia further underscored the eu 's need to " engage more deeply with its eastern neighbors to stabilize the region , " says sabine fischer , a russia and cis expert at the eu institute for security studies -lrb- euiss -rrb- in paris . then there is belarus , formerly called belorussia or white russia , which the eu has long regarded as the black sheep of the post-soviet cis states .
its president alexander lukashenko , who earned the reputation of being " europe 's last dictator " for his government 's dubious human rights record , had even been placed under an eu travel ban , which was lifted last october .
but now that lukaschenko has said he wants to normalize " difficult " relations with the eu , belarus has been invited to participate in the prague summit on a technical level .
however lukaschenko himself will not attend the summit sending instead his deputy vladimir semachko .
russia makes some noise bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : russian foreign minister sergey lavrov speaks out at last month 's annual brussels forum meeting in brussels since belarus is one of the kremlin 's closest allies , russia foreign minister sergei lavrov expressed his dismay over the eastern partnership at a meeting with eu diplomats in luxembourg on april 28 , saying that " any processes leading to developments within the eu … should ensure no overlap in the post-soviet area . " although moscow 's political leaders see an encroachment on their former " sphere of influence " , their bark is louder than their bite , according to russia analysts .
" russia 's political leadership does not really feel threatened by the eu 's rapprochement with the post-soviet states , " said fischer .
" its leaders are more relaxed with the eu , as opposed to nato , " she added .
stefan meister of the german council on foreign relations -lrb- dgap -rrb- who sees the eastern partnership as a regional grouping similar to the mediterranean union , thinks that lavrov might have felt slighted by being left out of the new initiative .
" but he also understands that this can be a typical eu initiative with a lot of talk , but maybe not much happening , " he said .
extension of existing eu structure the eastern partnership , which would be embedded in an existing structure called the european neighbourhood policy -lrb- enp -rrb- , emerged last year as the brainchild of poland and sweden .
enp was created in 2004 when the eu expanded eastwards to include the former soviet satellite states in the bloc , whose membership jumped from 15 to 25 .
romania and bulgaria later joined the eu in 2007 .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : south ossetian separatist fighters celebrate russian recognition of the breakaway georgian territories of south ossetia and abkhazia its initial objective was to minimize the impact of a new iron curtain between the enlarged eu and the neighboring post-soviet states even further east , by offering a privileged partnership based on a commitment to democratic values and market principles .
the eastern partnership builds up a stronger regional dimension that goes further than the enp , says oksana antonenko , a senior russia analyst at the international institute for strategic studies in london .
enp offers bilateral relations with all countries that border the entire eu by land and sea , including the mediterranean union countries , whereas the ep is a multilateral agreement involving only six countries , she explained .
" the ep opens the door to potentially deeper multi-speed integration with the eu on matters such as visa-free travel or free trade , " said antonenko , who explained that member states could keep progressing to a higher level of cooperation with the eu " a la carte " on a specific issue .
not a stepping stone to join the eu the partnership offers carrots to encourage political and economic reforms , but it is not a stepping stone to eventual eu membership , says dgap 's meister , who characterizes the ep as an alternative to joining the eu .
" it brings the six -lrb- cis -rrb- states closer to the value system of the eu and offers them something like a customs union , but maybe not what they really want - the perspective of eu membership down the road , " he said .
ukraine is eager to join the eu club , but the bloc is suffering from enlargement fatigue and the lisbon treaty , that is supposed to streamline decision-making , still hangs in the balance . one of the lisbon treaty 's goals is to create a more permanent eu presidency filled by a high profile politician for a period of two-and-a-half years to replace the current six month rotating system . when the czech term ends at the end of june , the swedes will take over , a stroke of luck for the eastern partnership , according to fischer .
" the swedes are going to put a strong emphasis on this -lrb- northeastern -rrb- region , " she said .
" after all , the ep was their initiative . " author : diana fong editor : susan houlton send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ? 9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
in depth al qaeda 's future deutsche welle takes a closer look at osama bin laden and the terrorist network he spearheaded .
podcast series omar from senegal advocates for refugees on spanish stages .
listen to the report subscribe to the series on itunes past episodes international conference media representatives around the world gather in bonn to discuss human rights .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
prague summit to launch " eastern partnership " -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 23.12.2010 home news germany europe world from tierra del fuego to tijuana asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de european ties -pipe- 07.05.2009 prague summit to launch " eastern partnership " großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the " eastern partnership " is the brain child of poland and sweden good neighborhood policy is normally on the agenda of the eu rotating presidency .
but the nation at the helm determines which neighbors take priority .
that sweden takes over soon is good news for the eu 's eastern flank . when france was in charge during the second half of 2008 , president nicolas sarkozy made relations with his country 's mediterranean rim neighbors the cornerstone of his six month eu presidency .
membership in sarkozy 's " club med " was based on sharing a common mediterranean coastline , so morocco , turkey , israel and syria met the geographical criteria .
the idea was to provide an eu-mediterranean forum for tackling regional issues such as illegal boat migration from africa , combating terrorism and cleaning up the polluted sea .
the mediterranean union 's inaugural summit last july represented a milestone in bringing the heads of state of israel and its middle east adversaries together in paris , but the french eu initiative had already lost steam by the start of the czech republic 's presidency in january 2009 .
now with less than two months left of prague 's beleaguered eu presidency , the 27 nation bloc 's priorities have shifted northwards and eastwards geographically .
czech prime minister mirek topolanek was ousted last month and will be replaced on may 8 by an interim government .
topolanek 's successor jan fischer takes over the day after the eu launches its " eastern partnership " -lrb- ep -rrb- with six post-soviet states- armenia , azerbaijan , belarus , georgia , moldova and ukraine- at a summit in prague on may 7 .
eu wants stable eastern neighbors bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : eu commission president jose manuel barroso and his commissioners do n't want a new " iron curtain " eu officials say that the goal of the initiative is to help stabilize and modernize the states created from the break-up of the former soviet union by bringing in free markets and pro-democracy reforms .
the russia-georgia war last august over the breakaway province of south ossetia further underscored the eu 's need to " engage more deeply with its eastern neighbors to stabilize the region , " says sabine fischer , a russia and cis expert at the eu institute for security studies -lrb- euiss -rrb- in paris . then there is belarus , formerly called belorussia or white russia , which the eu has long regarded as the black sheep of the post-soviet cis states .
its president alexander lukashenko , who earned the reputation of being " europe 's last dictator " for his government 's dubious human rights record , had even been placed under an eu travel ban , which was lifted last october .
but now that lukaschenko has said he wants to normalize " difficult " relations with the eu , belarus has been invited to participate in the prague summit on a technical level .
however lukaschenko himself will not attend the summit sending instead his deputy vladimir semachko .
russia makes some noise bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : russian foreign minister sergey lavrov speaks out at last month 's annual brussels forum meeting in brussels since belarus is one of the kremlin 's closest allies , russia foreign minister sergei lavrov expressed his dismay over the eastern partnership at a meeting with eu diplomats in luxembourg on april 28 , saying that " any processes leading to developments within the eu … should ensure no overlap in the post-soviet area . " although moscow 's political leaders see an encroachment on their former " sphere of influence " , their bark is louder than their bite , according to russia analysts .
" russia 's political leadership does not really feel threatened by the eu 's rapprochement with the post-soviet states , " said fischer .
" its leaders are more relaxed with the eu , as opposed to nato , " she added .
stefan meister of the german council on foreign relations -lrb- dgap -rrb- who sees the eastern partnership as a regional grouping similar to the mediterranean union , thinks that lavrov might have felt slighted by being left out of the new initiative .
" but he also understands that this can be a typical eu initiative with a lot of talk , but maybe not much happening , " he said .
extension of existing eu structure the eastern partnership , which would be embedded in an existing structure called the european neighbourhood policy -lrb- enp -rrb- , emerged last year as the brainchild of poland and sweden .
enp was created in 2004 when the eu expanded eastwards to include the former soviet satellite states in the bloc , whose membership jumped from 15 to 25 .
romania and bulgaria later joined the eu in 2007 .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : south ossetian separatist fighters celebrate russian recognition of the breakaway georgian territories of south ossetia and abkhazia its initial objective was to minimize the impact of a new iron curtain between the enlarged eu and the neighboring post-soviet states even further east , by offering a privileged partnership based on a commitment to democratic values and market principles .
the eastern partnership builds up a stronger regional dimension that goes further than the enp , says oksana antonenko , a senior russia analyst at the international institute for strategic studies in london .
enp offers bilateral relations with all countries that border the entire eu by land and sea , including the mediterranean union countries , whereas the ep is a multilateral agreement involving only six countries , she explained .
" the ep opens the door to potentially deeper multi-speed integration with the eu on matters such as visa-free travel or free trade , " said antonenko , who explained that member states could keep progressing to a higher level of cooperation with the eu " a la carte " on a specific issue .
not a stepping stone to join the eu the partnership offers carrots to encourage political and economic reforms , but it is not a stepping stone to eventual eu membership , says dgap 's meister , who characterizes the ep as an alternative to joining the eu .
" it brings the six -lrb- cis -rrb- states closer to the value system of the eu and offers them something like a customs union , but maybe not what they really want - the perspective of eu membership down the road , " he said .
ukraine is eager to join the eu club , but the bloc is suffering from enlargement fatigue and the lisbon treaty , that is supposed to streamline decision-making , still hangs in the balance . one of the lisbon treaty 's goals is to create a more permanent eu presidency filled by a high profile politician for a period of two-and-a-half years to replace the current six month rotating system . when the czech term ends at the end of june , the swedes will take over , a stroke of luck for the eastern partnership , according to fischer .
" the swedes are going to put a strong emphasis on this -lrb- northeastern -rrb- region , " she said .
" after all , the ep was their initiative . " author : diana fong editor : susan houlton send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
us-pakistan relations the new york times is reporting that the us is planning special operations in pakistan .
taliban expert ahmed rashid talks about the new york times report the road ahead the nato exit strategy aims to hand security to afghan forces , however that is a long way off .
watch the video focus wikileaks read our dw-world focus on the latest wikileaks revelations and their impact around the globe .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan new web site check out deutsche welle 's new asia page in english .
dw asia online latin america take a multimedia journey discover the region and its people news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's newest media partner © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
prague summit to launch " eastern partnership " -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 22.09.2010 home news germany europe world from tierra del fuego to tijuana asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de european ties -pipe- 07.05.2009 prague summit to launch " eastern partnership " großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the " eastern partnership " is the brain child of poland and sweden good neighborhood policy is normally on the agenda of the eu rotating presidency .
but the nation at the helm determines which neighbors take priority .
that sweden takes over soon is good news for the eu 's eastern flank . when france was in charge during the second half of 2008 , president nicolas sarkozy made relations with his country 's mediterranean rim neighbors the cornerstone of his six month eu presidency .
membership in sarkozy 's " club med " was based on sharing a common mediterranean coastline , so morocco , turkey , israel and syria met the geographical criteria .
the idea was to provide an eu-mediterranean forum for tackling regional issues such as illegal boat migration from africa , combating terrorism and cleaning up the polluted sea .
the mediterranean union 's inaugural summit last july represented a milestone in bringing the heads of state of israel and its middle east adversaries together in paris , but the french eu initiative had already lost steam by the start of the czech republic 's presidency in january 2009 .
now with less than two months left of prague 's beleaguered eu presidency , the 27 nation bloc 's priorities have shifted northwards and eastwards geographically .
czech prime minister mirek topolanek was ousted last month and will be replaced on may 8 by an interim government .
topolanek 's successor jan fischer takes over the day after the eu launches its " eastern partnership " -lrb- ep -rrb- with six post-soviet states- armenia , azerbaijan , belarus , georgia , moldova and ukraine- at a summit in prague on may 7 .
eu wants stable eastern neighbors bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : eu commission president jose manuel barroso and his commissioners do n't want a new " iron curtain " eu officials say that the goal of the initiative is to help stabilize and modernize the states created from the break-up of the former soviet union by bringing in free markets and pro-democracy reforms .
the russia-georgia war last august over the breakaway province of south ossetia further underscored the eu 's need to " engage more deeply with its eastern neighbors to stabilize the region , " says sabine fischer , a russia and cis expert at the eu institute for security studies -lrb- euiss -rrb- in paris . then there is belarus , formerly called belorussia or white russia , which the eu has long regarded as the black sheep of the post-soviet cis states .
its president alexander lukashenko , who earned the reputation of being " europe 's last dictator " for his government 's dubious human rights record , had even been placed under an eu travel ban , which was lifted last october .
but now that lukaschenko has said he wants to normalize " difficult " relations with the eu , belarus has been invited to participate in the prague summit on a technical level .
however lukaschenko himself will not attend the summit sending instead his deputy vladimir semachko .
russia makes some noise bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : russian foreign minister sergey lavrov speaks out at last month 's annual brussels forum meeting in brussels since belarus is one of the kremlin 's closest allies , russia foreign minister sergei lavrov expressed his dismay over the eastern partnership at a meeting with eu diplomats in luxembourg on april 28 , saying that " any processes leading to developments within the eu … should ensure no overlap in the post-soviet area . " although moscow 's political leaders see an encroachment on their former " sphere of influence " , their bark is louder than their bite , according to russia analysts .
" russia 's political leadership does not really feel threatened by the eu 's rapprochement with the post-soviet states , " said fischer .
" its leaders are more relaxed with the eu , as opposed to nato , " she added .
stefan meister of the german council on foreign relations -lrb- dgap -rrb- who sees the eastern partnership as a regional grouping similar to the mediterranean union , thinks that lavrov might have felt slighted by being left out of the new initiative .
" but he also understands that this can be a typical eu initiative with a lot of talk , but maybe not much happening , " he said .
extension of existing eu structure the eastern partnership , which would be embedded in an existing structure called the european neighbourhood policy -lrb- enp -rrb- , emerged last year as the brainchild of poland and sweden .
enp was created in 2004 when the eu expanded eastwards to include the former soviet satellite states in the bloc , whose membership jumped from 15 to 25 .
romania and bulgaria later joined the eu in 2007 .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : south ossetian separatist fighters celebrate russian recognition of the breakaway georgian territories of south ossetia and abkhazia its initial objective was to minimize the impact of a new iron curtain between the enlarged eu and the neighboring post-soviet states even further east , by offering a privileged partnership based on a commitment to democratic values and market principles .
the eastern partnership builds up a stronger regional dimension that goes further than the enp , says oksana antonenko , a senior russia analyst at the international institute for strategic studies in london .
enp offers bilateral relations with all countries that border the entire eu by land and sea , including the mediterranean union countries , whereas the ep is a multilateral agreement involving only six countries , she explained .
" the ep opens the door to potentially deeper multi-speed integration with the eu on matters such as visa-free travel or free trade , " said antonenko , who explained that member states could keep progressing to a higher level of cooperation with the eu " a la carte " on a specific issue .
not a stepping stone to join the eu the partnership offers carrots to encourage political and economic reforms , but it is not a stepping stone to eventual eu membership , says dgap 's meister , who characterizes the ep as an alternative to joining the eu .
" it brings the six -lrb- cis -rrb- states closer to the value system of the eu and offers them something like a customs union , but maybe not what they really want - the perspective of eu membership down the road , " he said .
ukraine is eager to join the eu club , but the bloc is suffering from enlargement fatigue and the lisbon treaty , that is supposed to streamline decision-making , still hangs in the balance . one of the lisbon treaty 's goals is to create a more permanent eu presidency filled by a high profile politician for a period of two-and-a-half years to replace the current six month rotating system . when the czech term ends at the end of june , the swedes will take over , a stroke of luck for the eastern partnership , according to fischer .
" the swedes are going to put a strong emphasis on this -lrb- northeastern -rrb- region , " she said .
" after all , the ep was their initiative . " author : diana fong editor : susan houlton send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live projekt zukunft we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live pulse listen live diplomatic row dw 's china correspondent on rising sino-japanese tensions following arrest of chinese trawlerman .
listen to the interview learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan new web site check out deutsche welle 's new asia page in english .
dw asia online news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's newest media partner latin america take a multimedia journey discover the region and its people © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
prague summit to launch " eastern partnership " -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 01.11.2010 home news germany europe world from tierra del fuego to tijuana asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de european ties -pipe- 07.05.2009 prague summit to launch " eastern partnership " großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the " eastern partnership " is the brain child of poland and sweden good neighborhood policy is normally on the agenda of the eu rotating presidency .
but the nation at the helm determines which neighbors take priority .
that sweden takes over soon is good news for the eu 's eastern flank . when france was in charge during the second half of 2008 , president nicolas sarkozy made relations with his country 's mediterranean rim neighbors the cornerstone of his six month eu presidency .
membership in sarkozy 's " club med " was based on sharing a common mediterranean coastline , so morocco , turkey , israel and syria met the geographical criteria .
the idea was to provide an eu-mediterranean forum for tackling regional issues such as illegal boat migration from africa , combating terrorism and cleaning up the polluted sea .
the mediterranean union 's inaugural summit last july represented a milestone in bringing the heads of state of israel and its middle east adversaries together in paris , but the french eu initiative had already lost steam by the start of the czech republic 's presidency in january 2009 .
now with less than two months left of prague 's beleaguered eu presidency , the 27 nation bloc 's priorities have shifted northwards and eastwards geographically .
czech prime minister mirek topolanek was ousted last month and will be replaced on may 8 by an interim government .
topolanek 's successor jan fischer takes over the day after the eu launches its " eastern partnership " -lrb- ep -rrb- with six post-soviet states- armenia , azerbaijan , belarus , georgia , moldova and ukraine- at a summit in prague on may 7 .
eu wants stable eastern neighbors bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : eu commission president jose manuel barroso and his commissioners do n't want a new " iron curtain " eu officials say that the goal of the initiative is to help stabilize and modernize the states created from the break-up of the former soviet union by bringing in free markets and pro-democracy reforms .
the russia-georgia war last august over the breakaway province of south ossetia further underscored the eu 's need to " engage more deeply with its eastern neighbors to stabilize the region , " says sabine fischer , a russia and cis expert at the eu institute for security studies -lrb- euiss -rrb- in paris . then there is belarus , formerly called belorussia or white russia , which the eu has long regarded as the black sheep of the post-soviet cis states .
its president alexander lukashenko , who earned the reputation of being " europe 's last dictator " for his government 's dubious human rights record , had even been placed under an eu travel ban , which was lifted last october .
but now that lukaschenko has said he wants to normalize " difficult " relations with the eu , belarus has been invited to participate in the prague summit on a technical level .
however lukaschenko himself will not attend the summit sending instead his deputy vladimir semachko .
russia makes some noise bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : russian foreign minister sergey lavrov speaks out at last month 's annual brussels forum meeting in brussels since belarus is one of the kremlin 's closest allies , russia foreign minister sergei lavrov expressed his dismay over the eastern partnership at a meeting with eu diplomats in luxembourg on april 28 , saying that " any processes leading to developments within the eu … should ensure no overlap in the post-soviet area . " although moscow 's political leaders see an encroachment on their former " sphere of influence " , their bark is louder than their bite , according to russia analysts .
" russia 's political leadership does not really feel threatened by the eu 's rapprochement with the post-soviet states , " said fischer .
" its leaders are more relaxed with the eu , as opposed to nato , " she added .
stefan meister of the german council on foreign relations -lrb- dgap -rrb- who sees the eastern partnership as a regional grouping similar to the mediterranean union , thinks that lavrov might have felt slighted by being left out of the new initiative .
" but he also understands that this can be a typical eu initiative with a lot of talk , but maybe not much happening , " he said .
extension of existing eu structure the eastern partnership , which would be embedded in an existing structure called the european neighbourhood policy -lrb- enp -rrb- , emerged last year as the brainchild of poland and sweden .
enp was created in 2004 when the eu expanded eastwards to include the former soviet satellite states in the bloc , whose membership jumped from 15 to 25 .
romania and bulgaria later joined the eu in 2007 .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : south ossetian separatist fighters celebrate russian recognition of the breakaway georgian territories of south ossetia and abkhazia its initial objective was to minimize the impact of a new iron curtain between the enlarged eu and the neighboring post-soviet states even further east , by offering a privileged partnership based on a commitment to democratic values and market principles .
the eastern partnership builds up a stronger regional dimension that goes further than the enp , says oksana antonenko , a senior russia analyst at the international institute for strategic studies in london .
enp offers bilateral relations with all countries that border the entire eu by land and sea , including the mediterranean union countries , whereas the ep is a multilateral agreement involving only six countries , she explained .
" the ep opens the door to potentially deeper multi-speed integration with the eu on matters such as visa-free travel or free trade , " said antonenko , who explained that member states could keep progressing to a higher level of cooperation with the eu " a la carte " on a specific issue .
not a stepping stone to join the eu the partnership offers carrots to encourage political and economic reforms , but it is not a stepping stone to eventual eu membership , says dgap 's meister , who characterizes the ep as an alternative to joining the eu .
" it brings the six -lrb- cis -rrb- states closer to the value system of the eu and offers them something like a customs union , but maybe not what they really want - the perspective of eu membership down the road , " he said .
ukraine is eager to join the eu club , but the bloc is suffering from enlargement fatigue and the lisbon treaty , that is supposed to streamline decision-making , still hangs in the balance . one of the lisbon treaty 's goals is to create a more permanent eu presidency filled by a high profile politician for a period of two-and-a-half years to replace the current six month rotating system . when the czech term ends at the end of june , the swedes will take over , a stroke of luck for the eastern partnership , according to fischer .
" the swedes are going to put a strong emphasis on this -lrb- northeastern -rrb- region , " she said .
" after all , the ep was their initiative . " author : diana fong editor : susan houlton send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live im focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live in-box feedback from around the world listen live learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan new web site check out deutsche welle 's new asia page in english .
dw asia online news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's newest media partner latin america take a multimedia journey discover the region and its people © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
prague summit to launch " eastern partnership " -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 14.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de european ties -pipe- 07.05.2009 prague summit to launch " eastern partnership " großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the " eastern partnership " is the brain child of poland and sweden good neighborhood policy is normally on the agenda of the eu rotating presidency .
but the nation at the helm determines which neighbors take priority .
that sweden takes over soon is good news for the eu 's eastern flank . when france was in charge during the second half of 2008 , president nicolas sarkozy made relations with his country 's mediterranean rim neighbors the cornerstone of his six month eu presidency .
membership in sarkozy 's " club med " was based on sharing a common mediterranean coastline , so morocco , turkey , israel and syria met the geographical criteria .
the idea was to provide an eu-mediterranean forum for tackling regional issues such as illegal boat migration from africa , combating terrorism and cleaning up the polluted sea .
the mediterranean union 's inaugural summit last july represented a milestone in bringing the heads of state of israel and its middle east adversaries together in paris , but the french eu initiative had already lost steam by the start of the czech republic 's presidency in january 2009 .
now with less than two months left of prague 's beleaguered eu presidency , the 27 nation bloc 's priorities have shifted northwards and eastwards geographically .
czech prime minister mirek topolanek was ousted last month and will be replaced on may 8 by an interim government .
topolanek 's successor jan fischer takes over the day after the eu launches its " eastern partnership " -lrb- ep -rrb- with six post-soviet states- armenia , azerbaijan , belarus , georgia , moldova and ukraine- at a summit in prague on may 7 .
eu wants stable eastern neighbors bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : eu commission president jose manuel barroso and his commissioners do n't want a new " iron curtain " eu officials say that the goal of the initiative is to help stabilize and modernize the states created from the break-up of the former soviet union by bringing in free markets and pro-democracy reforms .
the russia-georgia war last august over the breakaway province of south ossetia further underscored the eu 's need to " engage more deeply with its eastern neighbors to stabilize the region , " says sabine fischer , a russia and cis expert at the eu institute for security studies -lrb- euiss -rrb- in paris . then there is belarus , formerly called belorussia or white russia , which the eu has long regarded as the black sheep of the post-soviet cis states .
its president alexander lukashenko , who earned the reputation of being " europe 's last dictator " for his government 's dubious human rights record , had even been placed under an eu travel ban , which was lifted last october .
but now that lukaschenko has said he wants to normalize " difficult " relations with the eu , belarus has been invited to participate in the prague summit on a technical level .
however lukaschenko himself will not attend the summit sending instead his deputy vladimir semachko .
russia makes some noise bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : russian foreign minister sergey lavrov speaks out at last month 's annual brussels forum meeting in brussels since belarus is one of the kremlin 's closest allies , russia foreign minister sergei lavrov expressed his dismay over the eastern partnership at a meeting with eu diplomats in luxembourg on april 28 , saying that " any processes leading to developments within the eu … should ensure no overlap in the post-soviet area . " although moscow 's political leaders see an encroachment on their former " sphere of influence " , their bark is louder than their bite , according to russia analysts .
" russia 's political leadership does not really feel threatened by the eu 's rapprochement with the post-soviet states , " said fischer .
" its leaders are more relaxed with the eu , as opposed to nato , " she added .
stefan meister of the german council on foreign relations -lrb- dgap -rrb- who sees the eastern partnership as a regional grouping similar to the mediterranean union , thinks that lavrov might have felt slighted by being left out of the new initiative .
" but he also understands that this can be a typical eu initiative with a lot of talk , but maybe not much happening , " he said .
extension of existing eu structure the eastern partnership , which would be embedded in an existing structure called the european neighbourhood policy -lrb- enp -rrb- , emerged last year as the brainchild of poland and sweden .
enp was created in 2004 when the eu expanded eastwards to include the former soviet satellite states in the bloc , whose membership jumped from 15 to 25 .
romania and bulgaria later joined the eu in 2007 .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : south ossetian separatist fighters celebrate russian recognition of the breakaway georgian territories of south ossetia and abkhazia its initial objective was to minimize the impact of a new iron curtain between the enlarged eu and the neighboring post-soviet states even further east , by offering a privileged partnership based on a commitment to democratic values and market principles .
the eastern partnership builds up a stronger regional dimension that goes further than the enp , says oksana antonenko , a senior russia analyst at the international institute for strategic studies in london .
enp offers bilateral relations with all countries that border the entire eu by land and sea , including the mediterranean union countries , whereas the ep is a multilateral agreement involving only six countries , she explained .
" the ep opens the door to potentially deeper multi-speed integration with the eu on matters such as visa-free travel or free trade , " said antonenko , who explained that member states could keep progressing to a higher level of cooperation with the eu " a la carte " on a specific issue .
not a stepping stone to join the eu the partnership offers carrots to encourage political and economic reforms , but it is not a stepping stone to eventual eu membership , says dgap 's meister , who characterizes the ep as an alternative to joining the eu .
" it brings the six -lrb- cis -rrb- states closer to the value system of the eu and offers them something like a customs union , but maybe not what they really want - the perspective of eu membership down the road , " he said .
ukraine is eager to join the eu club , but the bloc is suffering from enlargement fatigue and the lisbon treaty , that is supposed to streamline decision-making , still hangs in the balance . one of the lisbon treaty 's goals is to create a more permanent eu presidency filled by a high profile politician for a period of two-and-a-half years to replace the current six month rotating system . when the czech term ends at the end of june , the swedes will take over , a stroke of luck for the eastern partnership , according to fischer .
" the swedes are going to put a strong emphasis on this -lrb- northeastern -rrb- region , " she said .
" after all , the ep was their initiative . " author : diana fong editor : susan houlton send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ? 9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
cairo crisis egypt 's military council has warned protesters it will move in to break up the demonstrations .
watch the video in depth focus on libya dw-world looks at the turmoil in libya : what it means for tripoli and the rest of the world .
international conference media representatives around the world gather in bonn to discuss human rights .
podcast series by teaching stand-up comedy , bryan encourages his students to discover their talents .
download the report subscribe to the series on itunes past episodes learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
obama wins pledge from afghan , pakistani leaders to confront militants -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 14.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de diplomacy -pipe- 07.05.2009 obama wins pledge from afghan , pakistani leaders to confront militants großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : obama warned of more violence in pakistan and afghanistan at the three-way summit president barack obama won a fresh promise from the leaders of pakistan and afghanistan on wednesday to work together to defeat al qaeda , and vowed he would make " every effort " to avoid civilian deaths . afghanistan 's hamid karzai and pakistan 's asif ali zardari came to washington after heavy criticism of their efforts to combat a taliban resurgence in their countries .
after their talks obama said both men " fully appreciate the seriousness of the threat " posed by al qaeda and their allies .
" the road ahead will be difficult .
there will be more violence and there will be setbacks , " obama said , with karzai and zardari at his side in the grand foyer of the white house .
" but let me be clear - the united states has not only made a lasting commitment to defeat al qaeda but also to support the democratically elected sovereign governments of both pakistan and afghanistan .
that commitment will not waiver and that support will be sustained . "
the obama administration has sharply criticized both karzai and zardari in the past , questioning their commitment and capability to tackle the threat from al qaeda and the taliban .
civilian casualties caused by us military operations in both countries , including drone strikes inside pakistan , have infuriated many afghans and pakistanis and made it harder for both countries ' leaders to cooperate with the united states .
military action earlier this week is believed to have caused dozens of civilian deaths with regional lawmakers and the international committee of the red cross reporting that as many as 100 people may have died in an operation in the bala boluk district of farah province in western afghanistan .
" we deeply , deeply regret that loss , " us secretary of state hillary clinton said of the civilian deaths before meeting karzai and zardari .
later she called that meeting " in some ways a breakthrough " and said she was " very optimistic " the process was making a difference .
obama announced a new approach to the fight against al qaeda in both countries in late march , offering more aid but also more than 20,000 extra troops to afghanistan this year .
pakistan 's zardari , who has been under fierce criticism for his response to taliban militants who have made inroads in the swat and buner valleys this year , pleaded for support for his fledgling democracy .
" my democracy needs attention and needs nurturing , " zardari said .
" pakistani democracy will deliver , the terrorists will be defeated by our joint struggle .
me , my friend president karzai and the united states ... will stand shoulder to shoulder with the world to fight this cancer and this threat . "
the pakistan government recently launched a major military offensive following pressure from the us to stop the advance of extremists in the region .
the islamist taliban says the offensive violates a peace deal it made with islamabad , which allowed the introduction of shariah law in the swat valley in exchange for a ceasefire .
on wednesday , pakistani security forces attacked taliban fighters in the swat valley , killing at least 64 of them after the united states called on the government to show its commitment to fighting militancy .
but the growing taliban influence in north-western pakistan has raised international concerns over the stability of the nuclear-armed country .
meanwhile in berlin , pakistani defence minister chaudry ahmad mukhtar has met with his german counterpart franz josef jung and asked for international help .
mukhtar said pakistan did not have the capacity to fight what he described as a " guerrilla war " in the north-west of the country . nrt , nk dpa / reuters / ap send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de obama to up pressure on , offer incentives to pakistan and afghanistan money for security - that 's the deal that us president barack obama is to offer his pakistani and afghan counterparts on wednesday .
a former german ambassador to pakistan talks us through a potentially historic meeting .
-lrb- 05.05.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic pakistani defence minister visits germany us president barack obama unveils a new afghan war strategy 9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
cairo crisis egypt 's military council has warned protesters it will move in to break up the demonstrations .
watch the video in depth focus on libya dw-world looks at the turmoil in libya : what it means for tripoli and the rest of the world .
international conference media representatives around the world gather in bonn to discuss human rights .
podcast series by teaching stand-up comedy , bryan encourages his students to discover their talents .
download the report subscribe to the series on itunes past episodes learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
obama wins pledge from afghan , pakistani leaders to confront militants -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 26.01.2011 home news germany europe world from tierra del fuego to tijuana asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de diplomacy -pipe- 07.05.2009 obama wins pledge from afghan , pakistani leaders to confront militants großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : obama warned of more violence in pakistan and afghanistan at the three-way summit president barack obama won a fresh promise from the leaders of pakistan and afghanistan on wednesday to work together to defeat al qaeda , and vowed he would make " every effort " to avoid civilian deaths . afghanistan 's hamid karzai and pakistan 's asif ali zardari came to washington after heavy criticism of their efforts to combat a taliban resurgence in their countries .
after their talks obama said both men " fully appreciate the seriousness of the threat " posed by al qaeda and their allies .
" the road ahead will be difficult .
there will be more violence and there will be setbacks , " obama said , with karzai and zardari at his side in the grand foyer of the white house .
" but let me be clear - the united states has not only made a lasting commitment to defeat al qaeda but also to support the democratically elected sovereign governments of both pakistan and afghanistan .
that commitment will not waiver and that support will be sustained . "
the obama administration has sharply criticized both karzai and zardari in the past , questioning their commitment and capability to tackle the threat from al qaeda and the taliban .
civilian casualties caused by us military operations in both countries , including drone strikes inside pakistan , have infuriated many afghans and pakistanis and made it harder for both countries ' leaders to cooperate with the united states .
military action earlier this week is believed to have caused dozens of civilian deaths with regional lawmakers and the international committee of the red cross reporting that as many as 100 people may have died in an operation in the bala boluk district of farah province in western afghanistan .
" we deeply , deeply regret that loss , " us secretary of state hillary clinton said of the civilian deaths before meeting karzai and zardari .
later she called that meeting " in some ways a breakthrough " and said she was " very optimistic " the process was making a difference .
obama announced a new approach to the fight against al qaeda in both countries in late march , offering more aid but also more than 20,000 extra troops to afghanistan this year .
pakistan 's zardari , who has been under fierce criticism for his response to taliban militants who have made inroads in the swat and buner valleys this year , pleaded for support for his fledgling democracy .
" my democracy needs attention and needs nurturing , " zardari said .
" pakistani democracy will deliver , the terrorists will be defeated by our joint struggle .
me , my friend president karzai and the united states ... will stand shoulder to shoulder with the world to fight this cancer and this threat . "
the pakistan government recently launched a major military offensive following pressure from the us to stop the advance of extremists in the region .
the islamist taliban says the offensive violates a peace deal it made with islamabad , which allowed the introduction of shariah law in the swat valley in exchange for a ceasefire .
on wednesday , pakistani security forces attacked taliban fighters in the swat valley , killing at least 64 of them after the united states called on the government to show its commitment to fighting militancy .
but the growing taliban influence in north-western pakistan has raised international concerns over the stability of the nuclear-armed country .
meanwhile in berlin , pakistani defence minister chaudry ahmad mukhtar has met with his german counterpart franz josef jung and asked for international help .
mukhtar said pakistan did not have the capacity to fight what he described as a " guerrilla war " in the north-west of the country . nrt , nk dpa / reuters / ap send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de obama to up pressure on , offer incentives to pakistan and afghanistan money for security - that 's the deal that us president barack obama is to offer his pakistani and afghan counterparts on wednesday .
a former german ambassador to pakistan talks us through a potentially historic meeting .
-lrb- 05.05.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic pakistani defence minister visits germany us president barack obama unveils a new afghan war strategy feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan latin america take a multimedia journey discover the region and its people news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's newest media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
obama wins pledge from afghan , pakistani leaders to confront militants -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 21.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de diplomacy -pipe- 07.05.2009 obama wins pledge from afghan , pakistani leaders to confront militants großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : obama warned of more violence in pakistan and afghanistan at the three-way summit president barack obama won a fresh promise from the leaders of pakistan and afghanistan on wednesday to work together to defeat al qaeda , and vowed he would make " every effort " to avoid civilian deaths . afghanistan 's hamid karzai and pakistan 's asif ali zardari came to washington after heavy criticism of their efforts to combat a taliban resurgence in their countries .
after their talks obama said both men " fully appreciate the seriousness of the threat " posed by al qaeda and their allies .
" the road ahead will be difficult .
there will be more violence and there will be setbacks , " obama said , with karzai and zardari at his side in the grand foyer of the white house .
" but let me be clear - the united states has not only made a lasting commitment to defeat al qaeda but also to support the democratically elected sovereign governments of both pakistan and afghanistan .
that commitment will not waiver and that support will be sustained . "
the obama administration has sharply criticized both karzai and zardari in the past , questioning their commitment and capability to tackle the threat from al qaeda and the taliban .
civilian casualties caused by us military operations in both countries , including drone strikes inside pakistan , have infuriated many afghans and pakistanis and made it harder for both countries ' leaders to cooperate with the united states .
military action earlier this week is believed to have caused dozens of civilian deaths with regional lawmakers and the international committee of the red cross reporting that as many as 100 people may have died in an operation in the bala boluk district of farah province in western afghanistan .
" we deeply , deeply regret that loss , " us secretary of state hillary clinton said of the civilian deaths before meeting karzai and zardari .
later she called that meeting " in some ways a breakthrough " and said she was " very optimistic " the process was making a difference .
obama announced a new approach to the fight against al qaeda in both countries in late march , offering more aid but also more than 20,000 extra troops to afghanistan this year .
pakistan 's zardari , who has been under fierce criticism for his response to taliban militants who have made inroads in the swat and buner valleys this year , pleaded for support for his fledgling democracy .
" my democracy needs attention and needs nurturing , " zardari said .
" pakistani democracy will deliver , the terrorists will be defeated by our joint struggle .
me , my friend president karzai and the united states ... will stand shoulder to shoulder with the world to fight this cancer and this threat . "
the pakistan government recently launched a major military offensive following pressure from the us to stop the advance of extremists in the region .
the islamist taliban says the offensive violates a peace deal it made with islamabad , which allowed the introduction of shariah law in the swat valley in exchange for a ceasefire .
on wednesday , pakistani security forces attacked taliban fighters in the swat valley , killing at least 64 of them after the united states called on the government to show its commitment to fighting militancy .
but the growing taliban influence in north-western pakistan has raised international concerns over the stability of the nuclear-armed country .
meanwhile in berlin , pakistani defence minister chaudry ahmad mukhtar has met with his german counterpart franz josef jung and asked for international help .
mukhtar said pakistan did not have the capacity to fight what he described as a " guerrilla war " in the north-west of the country . nrt , nk dpa / reuters / ap send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de obama to up pressure on , offer incentives to pakistan and afghanistan money for security - that 's the deal that us president barack obama is to offer his pakistani and afghan counterparts on wednesday .
a former german ambassador to pakistan talks us through a potentially historic meeting .
-lrb- 05.05.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic pakistani defence minister visits germany us president barack obama unveils a new afghan war strategy 9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
in depth al qaeda 's future deutsche welle takes a closer look at osama bin laden and the terrorist network he spearheaded .
podcast series omar from senegal advocates for refugees on spanish stages .
listen to the report subscribe to the series on itunes past episodes international conference media representatives around the world gather in bonn to discuss human rights .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
obama wins pledge from afghan , pakistani leaders to confront militants -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 23.12.2010 home news germany europe world from tierra del fuego to tijuana asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de diplomacy -pipe- 07.05.2009 obama wins pledge from afghan , pakistani leaders to confront militants großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : obama warned of more violence in pakistan and afghanistan at the three-way summit president barack obama won a fresh promise from the leaders of pakistan and afghanistan on wednesday to work together to defeat al qaeda , and vowed he would make " every effort " to avoid civilian deaths . afghanistan 's hamid karzai and pakistan 's asif ali zardari came to washington after heavy criticism of their efforts to combat a taliban resurgence in their countries .
after their talks obama said both men " fully appreciate the seriousness of the threat " posed by al qaeda and their allies .
" the road ahead will be difficult .
there will be more violence and there will be setbacks , " obama said , with karzai and zardari at his side in the grand foyer of the white house .
" but let me be clear - the united states has not only made a lasting commitment to defeat al qaeda but also to support the democratically elected sovereign governments of both pakistan and afghanistan .
that commitment will not waiver and that support will be sustained . "
the obama administration has sharply criticized both karzai and zardari in the past , questioning their commitment and capability to tackle the threat from al qaeda and the taliban .
civilian casualties caused by us military operations in both countries , including drone strikes inside pakistan , have infuriated many afghans and pakistanis and made it harder for both countries ' leaders to cooperate with the united states .
military action earlier this week is believed to have caused dozens of civilian deaths with regional lawmakers and the international committee of the red cross reporting that as many as 100 people may have died in an operation in the bala boluk district of farah province in western afghanistan .
" we deeply , deeply regret that loss , " us secretary of state hillary clinton said of the civilian deaths before meeting karzai and zardari .
later she called that meeting " in some ways a breakthrough " and said she was " very optimistic " the process was making a difference .
obama announced a new approach to the fight against al qaeda in both countries in late march , offering more aid but also more than 20,000 extra troops to afghanistan this year .
pakistan 's zardari , who has been under fierce criticism for his response to taliban militants who have made inroads in the swat and buner valleys this year , pleaded for support for his fledgling democracy .
" my democracy needs attention and needs nurturing , " zardari said .
" pakistani democracy will deliver , the terrorists will be defeated by our joint struggle .
me , my friend president karzai and the united states ... will stand shoulder to shoulder with the world to fight this cancer and this threat . "
the pakistan government recently launched a major military offensive following pressure from the us to stop the advance of extremists in the region .
the islamist taliban says the offensive violates a peace deal it made with islamabad , which allowed the introduction of shariah law in the swat valley in exchange for a ceasefire .
on wednesday , pakistani security forces attacked taliban fighters in the swat valley , killing at least 64 of them after the united states called on the government to show its commitment to fighting militancy .
but the growing taliban influence in north-western pakistan has raised international concerns over the stability of the nuclear-armed country .
meanwhile in berlin , pakistani defence minister chaudry ahmad mukhtar has met with his german counterpart franz josef jung and asked for international help .
mukhtar said pakistan did not have the capacity to fight what he described as a " guerrilla war " in the north-west of the country . nrt , nk dpa / reuters / ap send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de obama to up pressure on , offer incentives to pakistan and afghanistan money for security - that 's the deal that us president barack obama is to offer his pakistani and afghan counterparts on wednesday .
a former german ambassador to pakistan talks us through a potentially historic meeting .
-lrb- 05.05.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic pakistani defence minister visits germany us president barack obama unveils a new afghan war strategy feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
us-pakistan relations the new york times is reporting that the us is planning special operations in pakistan .
taliban expert ahmed rashid talks about the new york times report the road ahead the nato exit strategy aims to hand security to afghan forces , however that is a long way off .
watch the video focus wikileaks read our dw-world focus on the latest wikileaks revelations and their impact around the globe .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan new web site check out deutsche welle 's new asia page in english .
dw asia online latin america take a multimedia journey discover the region and its people news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's newest media partner © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
obama wins pledge from afghan , pakistani leaders to confront militants -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 16.09.2010 home news germany europe world from tierra del fuego to tijuana asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de diplomacy -pipe- 07.05.2009 obama wins pledge from afghan , pakistani leaders to confront militants großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : obama warned of more violence in pakistan and afghanistan at the three-way summit president barack obama won a fresh promise from the leaders of pakistan and afghanistan on wednesday to work together to defeat al qaeda , and vowed he would make " every effort " to avoid civilian deaths . afghanistan 's hamid karzai and pakistan 's asif ali zardari came to washington after heavy criticism of their efforts to combat a taliban resurgence in their countries .
after their talks obama said both men " fully appreciate the seriousness of the threat " posed by al qaeda and their allies .
" the road ahead will be difficult .
there will be more violence and there will be setbacks , " obama said , with karzai and zardari at his side in the grand foyer of the white house .
" but let me be clear - the united states has not only made a lasting commitment to defeat al qaeda but also to support the democratically elected sovereign governments of both pakistan and afghanistan .
that commitment will not waiver and that support will be sustained . "
the obama administration has sharply criticized both karzai and zardari in the past , questioning their commitment and capability to tackle the threat from al qaeda and the taliban .
civilian casualties caused by us military operations in both countries , including drone strikes inside pakistan , have infuriated many afghans and pakistanis and made it harder for both countries ' leaders to cooperate with the united states .
military action earlier this week is believed to have caused dozens of civilian deaths with regional lawmakers and the international committee of the red cross reporting that as many as 100 people may have died in an operation in the bala boluk district of farah province in western afghanistan .
" we deeply , deeply regret that loss , " us secretary of state hillary clinton said of the civilian deaths before meeting karzai and zardari .
later she called that meeting " in some ways a breakthrough " and said she was " very optimistic " the process was making a difference .
obama announced a new approach to the fight against al qaeda in both countries in late march , offering more aid but also more than 20,000 extra troops to afghanistan this year .
pakistan 's zardari , who has been under fierce criticism for his response to taliban militants who have made inroads in the swat and buner valleys this year , pleaded for support for his fledgling democracy .
" my democracy needs attention and needs nurturing , " zardari said .
" pakistani democracy will deliver , the terrorists will be defeated by our joint struggle .
me , my friend president karzai and the united states ... will stand shoulder to shoulder with the world to fight this cancer and this threat . "
the pakistan government recently launched a major military offensive following pressure from the us to stop the advance of extremists in the region .
the islamist taliban says the offensive violates a peace deal it made with islamabad , which allowed the introduction of shariah law in the swat valley in exchange for a ceasefire .
on wednesday , pakistani security forces attacked taliban fighters in the swat valley , killing at least 64 of them after the united states called on the government to show its commitment to fighting militancy .
but the growing taliban influence in north-western pakistan has raised international concerns over the stability of the nuclear-armed country .
meanwhile in berlin , pakistani defence minister chaudry ahmad mukhtar has met with his german counterpart franz josef jung and asked for international help .
mukhtar said pakistan did not have the capacity to fight what he described as a " guerrilla war " in the north-west of the country . nrt , nk dpa / reuters / ap send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de obama to up pressure on , offer incentives to pakistan and afghanistan money for security - that 's the deal that us president barack obama is to offer his pakistani and afghan counterparts on wednesday .
a former german ambassador to pakistan talks us through a potentially historic meeting .
-lrb- 05.05.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic pakistani defence minister visits germany us president barack obama unveils a new afghan war strategy feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live challenging talks us secretary of state hillary clinton faces a difficult task at the middle east peace talks .
watch the video afghan elections the us commander in afghanistan , general petraeus , wants more nato troops ahead of elections .
watch the video learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan new web site check out deutsche welle 's new asia page in english .
dw asia online news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's newest media partner latin america take a multimedia journey discover the region and its people © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
obama wins pledge from afghan , pakistani leaders to confront militants -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.10.2010 home news germany europe world from tierra del fuego to tijuana asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de diplomacy -pipe- 07.05.2009 obama wins pledge from afghan , pakistani leaders to confront militants großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : obama warned of more violence in pakistan and afghanistan at the three-way summit president barack obama won a fresh promise from the leaders of pakistan and afghanistan on wednesday to work together to defeat al qaeda , and vowed he would make " every effort " to avoid civilian deaths . afghanistan 's hamid karzai and pakistan 's asif ali zardari came to washington after heavy criticism of their efforts to combat a taliban resurgence in their countries .
after their talks obama said both men " fully appreciate the seriousness of the threat " posed by al qaeda and their allies .
" the road ahead will be difficult .
there will be more violence and there will be setbacks , " obama said , with karzai and zardari at his side in the grand foyer of the white house .
" but let me be clear - the united states has not only made a lasting commitment to defeat al qaeda but also to support the democratically elected sovereign governments of both pakistan and afghanistan .
that commitment will not waiver and that support will be sustained . "
the obama administration has sharply criticized both karzai and zardari in the past , questioning their commitment and capability to tackle the threat from al qaeda and the taliban .
civilian casualties caused by us military operations in both countries , including drone strikes inside pakistan , have infuriated many afghans and pakistanis and made it harder for both countries ' leaders to cooperate with the united states .
military action earlier this week is believed to have caused dozens of civilian deaths with regional lawmakers and the international committee of the red cross reporting that as many as 100 people may have died in an operation in the bala boluk district of farah province in western afghanistan .
" we deeply , deeply regret that loss , " us secretary of state hillary clinton said of the civilian deaths before meeting karzai and zardari .
later she called that meeting " in some ways a breakthrough " and said she was " very optimistic " the process was making a difference .
obama announced a new approach to the fight against al qaeda in both countries in late march , offering more aid but also more than 20,000 extra troops to afghanistan this year .
pakistan 's zardari , who has been under fierce criticism for his response to taliban militants who have made inroads in the swat and buner valleys this year , pleaded for support for his fledgling democracy .
" my democracy needs attention and needs nurturing , " zardari said .
" pakistani democracy will deliver , the terrorists will be defeated by our joint struggle .
me , my friend president karzai and the united states ... will stand shoulder to shoulder with the world to fight this cancer and this threat . "
the pakistan government recently launched a major military offensive following pressure from the us to stop the advance of extremists in the region .
the islamist taliban says the offensive violates a peace deal it made with islamabad , which allowed the introduction of shariah law in the swat valley in exchange for a ceasefire .
on wednesday , pakistani security forces attacked taliban fighters in the swat valley , killing at least 64 of them after the united states called on the government to show its commitment to fighting militancy .
but the growing taliban influence in north-western pakistan has raised international concerns over the stability of the nuclear-armed country .
meanwhile in berlin , pakistani defence minister chaudry ahmad mukhtar has met with his german counterpart franz josef jung and asked for international help .
mukhtar said pakistan did not have the capacity to fight what he described as a " guerrilla war " in the north-west of the country . nrt , nk dpa / reuters / ap send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de obama to up pressure on , offer incentives to pakistan and afghanistan money for security - that 's the deal that us president barack obama is to offer his pakistani and afghan counterparts on wednesday .
a former german ambassador to pakistan talks us through a potentially historic meeting .
-lrb- 05.05.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic pakistani defence minister visits germany us president barack obama unveils a new afghan war strategy feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live hits in germany pop from the german top 100 listen live life at gitmo dw-tv visits guantanamo bay for a closer look at the infamous detention camp the report as video on demand learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan new web site check out deutsche welle 's new asia page in english .
dw asia online news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's newest media partner latin america take a multimedia journey discover the region and its people © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
obama wins pledge from afghan , pakistani leaders to confront militants -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 21.11.2010 home news germany europe world from tierra del fuego to tijuana asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de diplomacy -pipe- 07.05.2009 obama wins pledge from afghan , pakistani leaders to confront militants großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : obama warned of more violence in pakistan and afghanistan at the three-way summit president barack obama won a fresh promise from the leaders of pakistan and afghanistan on wednesday to work together to defeat al qaeda , and vowed he would make " every effort " to avoid civilian deaths . afghanistan 's hamid karzai and pakistan 's asif ali zardari came to washington after heavy criticism of their efforts to combat a taliban resurgence in their countries .
after their talks obama said both men " fully appreciate the seriousness of the threat " posed by al qaeda and their allies .
" the road ahead will be difficult .
there will be more violence and there will be setbacks , " obama said , with karzai and zardari at his side in the grand foyer of the white house .
" but let me be clear - the united states has not only made a lasting commitment to defeat al qaeda but also to support the democratically elected sovereign governments of both pakistan and afghanistan .
that commitment will not waiver and that support will be sustained . "
the obama administration has sharply criticized both karzai and zardari in the past , questioning their commitment and capability to tackle the threat from al qaeda and the taliban .
civilian casualties caused by us military operations in both countries , including drone strikes inside pakistan , have infuriated many afghans and pakistanis and made it harder for both countries ' leaders to cooperate with the united states .
military action earlier this week is believed to have caused dozens of civilian deaths with regional lawmakers and the international committee of the red cross reporting that as many as 100 people may have died in an operation in the bala boluk district of farah province in western afghanistan .
" we deeply , deeply regret that loss , " us secretary of state hillary clinton said of the civilian deaths before meeting karzai and zardari .
later she called that meeting " in some ways a breakthrough " and said she was " very optimistic " the process was making a difference .
obama announced a new approach to the fight against al qaeda in both countries in late march , offering more aid but also more than 20,000 extra troops to afghanistan this year .
pakistan 's zardari , who has been under fierce criticism for his response to taliban militants who have made inroads in the swat and buner valleys this year , pleaded for support for his fledgling democracy .
" my democracy needs attention and needs nurturing , " zardari said .
" pakistani democracy will deliver , the terrorists will be defeated by our joint struggle .
me , my friend president karzai and the united states ... will stand shoulder to shoulder with the world to fight this cancer and this threat . "
the pakistan government recently launched a major military offensive following pressure from the us to stop the advance of extremists in the region .
the islamist taliban says the offensive violates a peace deal it made with islamabad , which allowed the introduction of shariah law in the swat valley in exchange for a ceasefire .
on wednesday , pakistani security forces attacked taliban fighters in the swat valley , killing at least 64 of them after the united states called on the government to show its commitment to fighting militancy .
but the growing taliban influence in north-western pakistan has raised international concerns over the stability of the nuclear-armed country .
meanwhile in berlin , pakistani defence minister chaudry ahmad mukhtar has met with his german counterpart franz josef jung and asked for international help .
mukhtar said pakistan did not have the capacity to fight what he described as a " guerrilla war " in the north-west of the country . nrt , nk dpa / reuters / ap send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de obama to up pressure on , offer incentives to pakistan and afghanistan money for security - that 's the deal that us president barack obama is to offer his pakistani and afghan counterparts on wednesday .
a former german ambassador to pakistan talks us through a potentially historic meeting .
-lrb- 05.05.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic pakistani defence minister visits germany us president barack obama unveils a new afghan war strategy feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live discover germany we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live music this week wilhelm friedemann bach on his 300th birthday listen live journey to mecca follow dw reporter ali almakhlafi on the hajj and get an inside view of the muslim pilgrimage .
ali 's journal : day 5 focus free at last focus on democracy : myanmar leader aung san suu kyi is free after seven years of house arrest .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan new web site check out deutsche welle 's new asia page in english .
dw asia online latin america take a multimedia journey discover the region and its people news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's newest media partner © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
bremen book a place in the uefa cup final , clinching a win against rivals hamburg -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 14.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de soccer -pipe- 07.05.2009 bremen book a place in the uefa cup final , clinching a win against rivals hamburg großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bremen 's diego scores but will miss the uefa cup final .
werder bremen came from a goal down to win 3-2 away to sv hamburg thursday to book a uefa cup final date in istanbul against ukrainian side shakhtar donetsk . diego , claudio pizarro and frank baumann were the goal-scoring heroes for bremen to advance to their first ever european final on may 20 in istanbul .
bremen went into the clash trailing 1-0 from the first leg but conceded a goal to hosts hamburg in the 13th minute when joris mathijsen powered his way upfield from defence before finding ivica olic who chipped the ball over bremen 's goalkeepr tim wiese .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : hamburgs 's ivica olic , left , scores his side 's first goal past bremen 's goalkeeper tim wiese olic could have doubled hamburg 's lead on 27 minutes but his effort from close range was saved .
within two minutes bremen were level when diego and pizarro combined well before the brazilian slotted the ball past frank rost .
diego nearly netted a second on 37 minutes but his shot from 25 metres hit the crossbar .
however , the 24-year-old was booked two minutes before the break for an off-the-ball row with alex silva , who also saw yellow , meaning the brazilian will miss the final .
" it was a difficult situation i did n't do anything , not to go to the final is very bad for me , " said diego .
peruvian striker pizarro scored on 66 minutes , beating rost at the near post although the hamburg goalkeeper really should have done better .
baumann looked to have put the game beyond hamburg with bremen 's third seven minutes from time and although olic popped up to score his second of the game to make it 3-2 on the night to set up a tense finale , bremen held on to make it to their first uefa cup final .
" we played well , it was tough to come from two goals down , " said pizarro .
" diego played a great match its a pity he 's not in the final but thats football . "
bremen are the first german side to reach a uefa cup final since borussia dortmund reached the final in 2002 only to lose against feyenoord rotterdam .
ruhr valley side schalke 04 were the last german winners back in 1997 .
same procedure ?
thursday 's semi-final fixture is the third in a series of four matches to be played between the two northern german clubs within a 19-day period . the first game went bremen 's way when goalkeeper tim wiese made three saves in a penalty shootout to knock hamburg out of the german cup semi-final on april 22 . the second saw hamburg gain revenge eight days later with its 0-1 victory in bremen .
the fourth and final derby match is a bundesliga fixture scheduled for sunday , may 10 . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : thomas schaaf has coached werder bremen for a decade intense rivalry as the two biggest cities in northern germany , hamburg and bremen have a long history of competing with each other as hanseatic trading powers , regional centers of industry and culture , and sporting contenders . " what 's very special is that they more or less share the same backyard from which they can get their soccer fans , " deutsche welle 's sports head wolfgang van kann says .
" so it 's always a question of who is better , and where the fans will go . " from a historical perspective , it 's difficult to say which club has been more successful .
according to the so-called " eternal table , " which records the performances of all bundesliga clubs since the competition was founded in 1963 , werder bremen and hamburg are ranked second and third respectively .
at the time of writing , they were separated by just six points . " clearly hamburg has the longer tradition and the longer streak of success , " van kann says .
" bremen has only come up in the last one or two decades , but with huge success . " while hamburg has n't won a title since it lifted the german cup in 1987 , bremen won the german double in 2004 and has qualified for the champions league for the past five seasons . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : fans were disgusted when hooligans killed a 16-year-old in 1982 " the clubs have always been very different , " van kann explains .
" for example you can see that hamburg has had several coaches within the past few years , while bremen has only had one coach for the last 10 years . " fan violence one thing the two clubs do have in common is a dedicated fan base .
hamburg boasts almost 55,000 members , while bremen has more than 30,000 .
but violence involving so-called " ultras " and militant fan groups has driven a wedge between the two cities on more than one occasion . the worst incident took place in october 1982 , when hamburg hosted bremen for a second-round german cup match .
despite a large police presence around the main train station and the stadium , hooligans belonging to a group known as the " hamburg lions " attacked visitors with beer cans , stones and fireworks . a 16-year-old bremen fan named adrian maleika was killed after he was hit on the head by a stone .
while most of germany was shocked , a number of hard-line fans were quoted in the press as being indifferent or hungry for revenge . tensions between supporters of the rival clubs threatened to boil over until representatives of more than 200 fan groups met in the town of scheessel , half-way between bremen and hamburg , and signed a " peace deal " banning revenge attacks . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : werder bremen topped the bundesliga in 1993 and 2004 while provocative lyrics sung in stadiums during northern derbies occasionally refer to the incident , most fans have put the conflict behind them , and prefer to remember - or forget - these four landmark matches from the past 30 years : bremen 6-0 hamburg , may 1 , 2004 the most one-sided result between the two clubs was in bremen as the 2003-04 bundesliga season drew to an end .
some 42,000 spectators watched hamburg striker sergej barbarez score an own-goal and trigger an avalanche of bremen goals .
one match later , werder bremen won the championship with a spectacular 3-1 victory over bayern munich . bremen 4-2 hamburg , october 27 , 1993 just over 34,000 fans turned out to watch the fourth round german cup fixture in bremen 's weserstadion .
austrian midfielder andreas herzog gave bremen an early lead , but hamburg managed to score twice after the break before bernd hobsch leveled the scores in the 74th minute .
when hamburg 's andreas sassen was shown a red card , bremen 's frank neubarth and wynton rufer capitalized by both finding the net in the final four minutes .
the convincing victory saw werder bremen progress through the tournament to win the 1993 german cup . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : horst hrubesch was a key player for hamburg in 1982 .
bremen 5-0 hamburg , may 29 , 1993 bremen also secured the bundesliga crown with one game to spare in 1993 thanks to this overwhelming victory .
andreas herzog and wynton rufer both scored as the home crowd celebrated their club 's third title .
bremen ended the season one point ahead of bayern munich , leaving hamburg to finish 11th .
legendary bremen coach otto rehhagel described the victory as a " milestone " for the club . hamburg 5-0 bremen , may 15 , 1982 one of hamburg 's two highest-ever wins against their northern derby rivals came in the closing stages of the 1981/1982 campaign .
a total of 53,400 fans watched horst hrubesch - now germany 's under-21 coach - score a hat-trick as hamburg demolished bremen 's defense to win the bundesliga title at the expense of second-placed fc cologne . author : sam edmonds editor : darren mara send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de hamburg move closer to uefa final after bremen defeat sv hamburg took the advantage on thursday after defeating bremen 1-0 in the first leg of their uefa cup semi-final matches .
hamburg 's coach says their position is good for the second leg , but bremen is not giving up .
-lrb- 01.05.2009 -rrb- german , ukrainian clubs fight for uefa cup honors domestic pride will be at stake in europe when ukrainian and german clubs battle against each other in the semi-finals of the uefa cup in first-leg matches on thursday .
-lrb- 30.04.2009 -rrb- werder bremen beat hamburg in cup semi-final bremen beat hamburg on penalties to reach the cup final .
bremen 's goalie tim wiese was the man of the game as he saved three penalties .
his side will now face leverkusen in the final .
-lrb- 23.04.2009 -rrb- 9801 dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit tagesthema we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live arts on the air listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-radio listen to the latest from german soccer on dw-radio .
sports report anti-racism girls wanted : scouting for germany 's next generation of female football talent listen to the audio art women 's football - a source of inspiration watch the video video women 's soccer is more popular than ever in the us .
watch the video final standings click here for the final 2010-11 bundesliga table . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
bremen book a place in the uefa cup final , clinching a win against rivals hamburg -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de soccer -pipe- 07.05.2009 bremen book a place in the uefa cup final , clinching a win against rivals hamburg großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bremen 's diego scores but will miss the uefa cup final .
werder bremen came from a goal down to win 3-2 away to sv hamburg thursday to book a uefa cup final date in istanbul against ukrainian side shakhtar donetsk . diego , claudio pizarro and frank baumann were the goal-scoring heroes for bremen to advance to their first ever european final on may 20 in istanbul .
bremen went into the clash trailing 1-0 from the first leg but conceded a goal to hosts hamburg in the 13th minute when joris mathijsen powered his way upfield from defence before finding ivica olic who chipped the ball over bremen 's goalkeepr tim wiese .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : hamburgs 's ivica olic , left , scores his side 's first goal past bremen 's goalkeeper tim wiese olic could have doubled hamburg 's lead on 27 minutes but his effort from close range was saved .
within two minutes bremen were level when diego and pizarro combined well before the brazilian slotted the ball past frank rost .
diego nearly netted a second on 37 minutes but his shot from 25 metres hit the crossbar .
however , the 24-year-old was booked two minutes before the break for an off-the-ball row with alex silva , who also saw yellow , meaning the brazilian will miss the final .
" it was a difficult situation i did n't do anything , not to go to the final is very bad for me , " said diego .
peruvian striker pizarro scored on 66 minutes , beating rost at the near post although the hamburg goalkeeper really should have done better .
baumann looked to have put the game beyond hamburg with bremen 's third seven minutes from time and although olic popped up to score his second of the game to make it 3-2 on the night to set up a tense finale , bremen held on to make it to their first uefa cup final .
" we played well , it was tough to come from two goals down , " said pizarro .
" diego played a great match its a pity he 's not in the final but thats football . "
bremen are the first german side to reach a uefa cup final since borussia dortmund reached the final in 2002 only to lose against feyenoord rotterdam .
ruhr valley side schalke 04 were the last german winners back in 1997 .
same procedure ?
thursday 's semi-final fixture is the third in a series of four matches to be played between the two northern german clubs within a 19-day period . the first game went bremen 's way when goalkeeper tim wiese made three saves in a penalty shootout to knock hamburg out of the german cup semi-final on april 22 . the second saw hamburg gain revenge eight days later with its 0-1 victory in bremen .
the fourth and final derby match is a bundesliga fixture scheduled for sunday , may 10 . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : thomas schaaf has coached werder bremen for a decade intense rivalry as the two biggest cities in northern germany , hamburg and bremen have a long history of competing with each other as hanseatic trading powers , regional centers of industry and culture , and sporting contenders . " what 's very special is that they more or less share the same backyard from which they can get their soccer fans , " deutsche welle 's sports head wolfgang van kann says .
" so it 's always a question of who is better , and where the fans will go . " from a historical perspective , it 's difficult to say which club has been more successful .
according to the so-called " eternal table , " which records the performances of all bundesliga clubs since the competition was founded in 1963 , werder bremen and hamburg are ranked second and third respectively .
at the time of writing , they were separated by just six points . " clearly hamburg has the longer tradition and the longer streak of success , " van kann says .
" bremen has only come up in the last one or two decades , but with huge success . " while hamburg has n't won a title since it lifted the german cup in 1987 , bremen won the german double in 2004 and has qualified for the champions league for the past five seasons . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : fans were disgusted when hooligans killed a 16-year-old in 1982 " the clubs have always been very different , " van kann explains .
" for example you can see that hamburg has had several coaches within the past few years , while bremen has only had one coach for the last 10 years . " fan violence one thing the two clubs do have in common is a dedicated fan base .
hamburg boasts almost 55,000 members , while bremen has more than 30,000 .
but violence involving so-called " ultras " and militant fan groups has driven a wedge between the two cities on more than one occasion . the worst incident took place in october 1982 , when hamburg hosted bremen for a second-round german cup match .
despite a large police presence around the main train station and the stadium , hooligans belonging to a group known as the " hamburg lions " attacked visitors with beer cans , stones and fireworks . a 16-year-old bremen fan named adrian maleika was killed after he was hit on the head by a stone .
while most of germany was shocked , a number of hard-line fans were quoted in the press as being indifferent or hungry for revenge . tensions between supporters of the rival clubs threatened to boil over until representatives of more than 200 fan groups met in the town of scheessel , half-way between bremen and hamburg , and signed a " peace deal " banning revenge attacks . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : werder bremen topped the bundesliga in 1993 and 2004 while provocative lyrics sung in stadiums during northern derbies occasionally refer to the incident , most fans have put the conflict behind them , and prefer to remember - or forget - these four landmark matches from the past 30 years : bremen 6-0 hamburg , may 1 , 2004 the most one-sided result between the two clubs was in bremen as the 2003-04 bundesliga season drew to an end .
some 42,000 spectators watched hamburg striker sergej barbarez score an own-goal and trigger an avalanche of bremen goals .
one match later , werder bremen won the championship with a spectacular 3-1 victory over bayern munich . bremen 4-2 hamburg , october 27 , 1993 just over 34,000 fans turned out to watch the fourth round german cup fixture in bremen 's weserstadion .
austrian midfielder andreas herzog gave bremen an early lead , but hamburg managed to score twice after the break before bernd hobsch leveled the scores in the 74th minute .
when hamburg 's andreas sassen was shown a red card , bremen 's frank neubarth and wynton rufer capitalized by both finding the net in the final four minutes .
the convincing victory saw werder bremen progress through the tournament to win the 1993 german cup . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : horst hrubesch was a key player for hamburg in 1982 .
bremen 5-0 hamburg , may 29 , 1993 bremen also secured the bundesliga crown with one game to spare in 1993 thanks to this overwhelming victory .
andreas herzog and wynton rufer both scored as the home crowd celebrated their club 's third title .
bremen ended the season one point ahead of bayern munich , leaving hamburg to finish 11th .
legendary bremen coach otto rehhagel described the victory as a " milestone " for the club . hamburg 5-0 bremen , may 15 , 1982 one of hamburg 's two highest-ever wins against their northern derby rivals came in the closing stages of the 1981/1982 campaign .
a total of 53,400 fans watched horst hrubesch - now germany 's under-21 coach - score a hat-trick as hamburg demolished bremen 's defense to win the bundesliga title at the expense of second-placed fc cologne . author : sam edmonds editor : darren mara send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de hamburg move closer to uefa final after bremen defeat sv hamburg took the advantage on thursday after defeating bremen 1-0 in the first leg of their uefa cup semi-final matches .
hamburg 's coach says their position is good for the second leg , but bremen is not giving up .
-lrb- 01.05.2009 -rrb- german , ukrainian clubs fight for uefa cup honors domestic pride will be at stake in europe when ukrainian and german clubs battle against each other in the semi-finals of the uefa cup in first-leg matches on thursday .
-lrb- 30.04.2009 -rrb- werder bremen beat hamburg in cup semi-final bremen beat hamburg on penalties to reach the cup final .
bremen 's goalie tim wiese was the man of the game as he saved three penalties .
his side will now face leverkusen in the final .
-lrb- 23.04.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live arts on the air listen live dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer on dw-radio .
sports report scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia moenchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
bremen book a place in the uefa cup final , clinching a win against rivals hamburg -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 21.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de soccer -pipe- 07.05.2009 bremen book a place in the uefa cup final , clinching a win against rivals hamburg großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bremen 's diego scores but will miss the uefa cup final .
werder bremen came from a goal down to win 3-2 away to sv hamburg thursday to book a uefa cup final date in istanbul against ukrainian side shakhtar donetsk . diego , claudio pizarro and frank baumann were the goal-scoring heroes for bremen to advance to their first ever european final on may 20 in istanbul .
bremen went into the clash trailing 1-0 from the first leg but conceded a goal to hosts hamburg in the 13th minute when joris mathijsen powered his way upfield from defence before finding ivica olic who chipped the ball over bremen 's goalkeepr tim wiese .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : hamburgs 's ivica olic , left , scores his side 's first goal past bremen 's goalkeeper tim wiese olic could have doubled hamburg 's lead on 27 minutes but his effort from close range was saved .
within two minutes bremen were level when diego and pizarro combined well before the brazilian slotted the ball past frank rost .
diego nearly netted a second on 37 minutes but his shot from 25 metres hit the crossbar .
however , the 24-year-old was booked two minutes before the break for an off-the-ball row with alex silva , who also saw yellow , meaning the brazilian will miss the final .
" it was a difficult situation i did n't do anything , not to go to the final is very bad for me , " said diego .
peruvian striker pizarro scored on 66 minutes , beating rost at the near post although the hamburg goalkeeper really should have done better .
baumann looked to have put the game beyond hamburg with bremen 's third seven minutes from time and although olic popped up to score his second of the game to make it 3-2 on the night to set up a tense finale , bremen held on to make it to their first uefa cup final .
" we played well , it was tough to come from two goals down , " said pizarro .
" diego played a great match its a pity he 's not in the final but thats football . "
bremen are the first german side to reach a uefa cup final since borussia dortmund reached the final in 2002 only to lose against feyenoord rotterdam .
ruhr valley side schalke 04 were the last german winners back in 1997 .
same procedure ?
thursday 's semi-final fixture is the third in a series of four matches to be played between the two northern german clubs within a 19-day period . the first game went bremen 's way when goalkeeper tim wiese made three saves in a penalty shootout to knock hamburg out of the german cup semi-final on april 22 . the second saw hamburg gain revenge eight days later with its 0-1 victory in bremen .
the fourth and final derby match is a bundesliga fixture scheduled for sunday , may 10 . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : thomas schaaf has coached werder bremen for a decade intense rivalry as the two biggest cities in northern germany , hamburg and bremen have a long history of competing with each other as hanseatic trading powers , regional centers of industry and culture , and sporting contenders . " what 's very special is that they more or less share the same backyard from which they can get their soccer fans , " deutsche welle 's sports head wolfgang van kann says .
" so it 's always a question of who is better , and where the fans will go . " from a historical perspective , it 's difficult to say which club has been more successful .
according to the so-called " eternal table , " which records the performances of all bundesliga clubs since the competition was founded in 1963 , werder bremen and hamburg are ranked second and third respectively .
at the time of writing , they were separated by just six points . " clearly hamburg has the longer tradition and the longer streak of success , " van kann says .
" bremen has only come up in the last one or two decades , but with huge success . " while hamburg has n't won a title since it lifted the german cup in 1987 , bremen won the german double in 2004 and has qualified for the champions league for the past five seasons . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : fans were disgusted when hooligans killed a 16-year-old in 1982 " the clubs have always been very different , " van kann explains .
" for example you can see that hamburg has had several coaches within the past few years , while bremen has only had one coach for the last 10 years . " fan violence one thing the two clubs do have in common is a dedicated fan base .
hamburg boasts almost 55,000 members , while bremen has more than 30,000 .
but violence involving so-called " ultras " and militant fan groups has driven a wedge between the two cities on more than one occasion . the worst incident took place in october 1982 , when hamburg hosted bremen for a second-round german cup match .
despite a large police presence around the main train station and the stadium , hooligans belonging to a group known as the " hamburg lions " attacked visitors with beer cans , stones and fireworks . a 16-year-old bremen fan named adrian maleika was killed after he was hit on the head by a stone .
while most of germany was shocked , a number of hard-line fans were quoted in the press as being indifferent or hungry for revenge . tensions between supporters of the rival clubs threatened to boil over until representatives of more than 200 fan groups met in the town of scheessel , half-way between bremen and hamburg , and signed a " peace deal " banning revenge attacks . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : werder bremen topped the bundesliga in 1993 and 2004 while provocative lyrics sung in stadiums during northern derbies occasionally refer to the incident , most fans have put the conflict behind them , and prefer to remember - or forget - these four landmark matches from the past 30 years : bremen 6-0 hamburg , may 1 , 2004 the most one-sided result between the two clubs was in bremen as the 2003-04 bundesliga season drew to an end .
some 42,000 spectators watched hamburg striker sergej barbarez score an own-goal and trigger an avalanche of bremen goals .
one match later , werder bremen won the championship with a spectacular 3-1 victory over bayern munich . bremen 4-2 hamburg , october 27 , 1993 just over 34,000 fans turned out to watch the fourth round german cup fixture in bremen 's weserstadion .
austrian midfielder andreas herzog gave bremen an early lead , but hamburg managed to score twice after the break before bernd hobsch leveled the scores in the 74th minute .
when hamburg 's andreas sassen was shown a red card , bremen 's frank neubarth and wynton rufer capitalized by both finding the net in the final four minutes .
the convincing victory saw werder bremen progress through the tournament to win the 1993 german cup . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : horst hrubesch was a key player for hamburg in 1982 .
bremen 5-0 hamburg , may 29 , 1993 bremen also secured the bundesliga crown with one game to spare in 1993 thanks to this overwhelming victory .
andreas herzog and wynton rufer both scored as the home crowd celebrated their club 's third title .
bremen ended the season one point ahead of bayern munich , leaving hamburg to finish 11th .
legendary bremen coach otto rehhagel described the victory as a " milestone " for the club . hamburg 5-0 bremen , may 15 , 1982 one of hamburg 's two highest-ever wins against their northern derby rivals came in the closing stages of the 1981/1982 campaign .
a total of 53,400 fans watched horst hrubesch - now germany 's under-21 coach - score a hat-trick as hamburg demolished bremen 's defense to win the bundesliga title at the expense of second-placed fc cologne . author : sam edmonds editor : darren mara send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de hamburg move closer to uefa final after bremen defeat sv hamburg took the advantage on thursday after defeating bremen 1-0 in the first leg of their uefa cup semi-final matches .
hamburg 's coach says their position is good for the second leg , but bremen is not giving up .
-lrb- 01.05.2009 -rrb- german , ukrainian clubs fight for uefa cup honors domestic pride will be at stake in europe when ukrainian and german clubs battle against each other in the semi-finals of the uefa cup in first-leg matches on thursday .
-lrb- 30.04.2009 -rrb- werder bremen beat hamburg in cup semi-final bremen beat hamburg on penalties to reach the cup final .
bremen 's goalie tim wiese was the man of the game as he saved three penalties .
his side will now face leverkusen in the final .
-lrb- 23.04.2009 -rrb- 9801 dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio listen to the latest from german soccer on dw-radio .
sports report scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results .
dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
bremen book a place in the uefa cup final , clinching a win against rivals hamburg -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 24.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de soccer -pipe- 07.05.2009 bremen book a place in the uefa cup final , clinching a win against rivals hamburg großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bremen 's diego scores but will miss the uefa cup final .
werder bremen came from a goal down to win 3-2 away to sv hamburg thursday to book a uefa cup final date in istanbul against ukrainian side shakhtar donetsk . diego , claudio pizarro and frank baumann were the goal-scoring heroes for bremen to advance to their first ever european final on may 20 in istanbul .
bremen went into the clash trailing 1-0 from the first leg but conceded a goal to hosts hamburg in the 13th minute when joris mathijsen powered his way upfield from defence before finding ivica olic who chipped the ball over bremen 's goalkeepr tim wiese .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : hamburgs 's ivica olic , left , scores his side 's first goal past bremen 's goalkeeper tim wiese olic could have doubled hamburg 's lead on 27 minutes but his effort from close range was saved .
within two minutes bremen were level when diego and pizarro combined well before the brazilian slotted the ball past frank rost .
diego nearly netted a second on 37 minutes but his shot from 25 metres hit the crossbar .
however , the 24-year-old was booked two minutes before the break for an off-the-ball row with alex silva , who also saw yellow , meaning the brazilian will miss the final .
" it was a difficult situation i did n't do anything , not to go to the final is very bad for me , " said diego .
peruvian striker pizarro scored on 66 minutes , beating rost at the near post although the hamburg goalkeeper really should have done better .
baumann looked to have put the game beyond hamburg with bremen 's third seven minutes from time and although olic popped up to score his second of the game to make it 3-2 on the night to set up a tense finale , bremen held on to make it to their first uefa cup final .
" we played well , it was tough to come from two goals down , " said pizarro .
" diego played a great match its a pity he 's not in the final but thats football . "
bremen are the first german side to reach a uefa cup final since borussia dortmund reached the final in 2002 only to lose against feyenoord rotterdam .
ruhr valley side schalke 04 were the last german winners back in 1997 .
same procedure ?
thursday 's semi-final fixture is the third in a series of four matches to be played between the two northern german clubs within a 19-day period . the first game went bremen 's way when goalkeeper tim wiese made three saves in a penalty shootout to knock hamburg out of the german cup semi-final on april 22 . the second saw hamburg gain revenge eight days later with its 0-1 victory in bremen .
the fourth and final derby match is a bundesliga fixture scheduled for sunday , may 10 . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : thomas schaaf has coached werder bremen for a decade intense rivalry as the two biggest cities in northern germany , hamburg and bremen have a long history of competing with each other as hanseatic trading powers , regional centers of industry and culture , and sporting contenders . " what 's very special is that they more or less share the same backyard from which they can get their soccer fans , " deutsche welle 's sports head wolfgang van kann says .
" so it 's always a question of who is better , and where the fans will go . " from a historical perspective , it 's difficult to say which club has been more successful .
according to the so-called " eternal table , " which records the performances of all bundesliga clubs since the competition was founded in 1963 , werder bremen and hamburg are ranked second and third respectively .
at the time of writing , they were separated by just six points . " clearly hamburg has the longer tradition and the longer streak of success , " van kann says .
" bremen has only come up in the last one or two decades , but with huge success . " while hamburg has n't won a title since it lifted the german cup in 1987 , bremen won the german double in 2004 and has qualified for the champions league for the past five seasons . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : fans were disgusted when hooligans killed a 16-year-old in 1982 " the clubs have always been very different , " van kann explains .
" for example you can see that hamburg has had several coaches within the past few years , while bremen has only had one coach for the last 10 years . " fan violence one thing the two clubs do have in common is a dedicated fan base .
hamburg boasts almost 55,000 members , while bremen has more than 30,000 .
but violence involving so-called " ultras " and militant fan groups has driven a wedge between the two cities on more than one occasion . the worst incident took place in october 1982 , when hamburg hosted bremen for a second-round german cup match .
despite a large police presence around the main train station and the stadium , hooligans belonging to a group known as the " hamburg lions " attacked visitors with beer cans , stones and fireworks . a 16-year-old bremen fan named adrian maleika was killed after he was hit on the head by a stone .
while most of germany was shocked , a number of hard-line fans were quoted in the press as being indifferent or hungry for revenge . tensions between supporters of the rival clubs threatened to boil over until representatives of more than 200 fan groups met in the town of scheessel , half-way between bremen and hamburg , and signed a " peace deal " banning revenge attacks . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : werder bremen topped the bundesliga in 1993 and 2004 while provocative lyrics sung in stadiums during northern derbies occasionally refer to the incident , most fans have put the conflict behind them , and prefer to remember - or forget - these four landmark matches from the past 30 years : bremen 6-0 hamburg , may 1 , 2004 the most one-sided result between the two clubs was in bremen as the 2003-04 bundesliga season drew to an end .
some 42,000 spectators watched hamburg striker sergej barbarez score an own-goal and trigger an avalanche of bremen goals .
one match later , werder bremen won the championship with a spectacular 3-1 victory over bayern munich . bremen 4-2 hamburg , october 27 , 1993 just over 34,000 fans turned out to watch the fourth round german cup fixture in bremen 's weserstadion .
austrian midfielder andreas herzog gave bremen an early lead , but hamburg managed to score twice after the break before bernd hobsch leveled the scores in the 74th minute .
when hamburg 's andreas sassen was shown a red card , bremen 's frank neubarth and wynton rufer capitalized by both finding the net in the final four minutes .
the convincing victory saw werder bremen progress through the tournament to win the 1993 german cup . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : horst hrubesch was a key player for hamburg in 1982 .
bremen 5-0 hamburg , may 29 , 1993 bremen also secured the bundesliga crown with one game to spare in 1993 thanks to this overwhelming victory .
andreas herzog and wynton rufer both scored as the home crowd celebrated their club 's third title .
bremen ended the season one point ahead of bayern munich , leaving hamburg to finish 11th .
legendary bremen coach otto rehhagel described the victory as a " milestone " for the club . hamburg 5-0 bremen , may 15 , 1982 one of hamburg 's two highest-ever wins against their northern derby rivals came in the closing stages of the 1981/1982 campaign .
a total of 53,400 fans watched horst hrubesch - now germany 's under-21 coach - score a hat-trick as hamburg demolished bremen 's defense to win the bundesliga title at the expense of second-placed fc cologne . author : sam edmonds editor : darren mara send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de hamburg move closer to uefa final after bremen defeat sv hamburg took the advantage on thursday after defeating bremen 1-0 in the first leg of their uefa cup semi-final matches .
hamburg 's coach says their position is good for the second leg , but bremen is not giving up .
-lrb- 01.05.2009 -rrb- german , ukrainian clubs fight for uefa cup honors domestic pride will be at stake in europe when ukrainian and german clubs battle against each other in the semi-finals of the uefa cup in first-leg matches on thursday .
-lrb- 30.04.2009 -rrb- werder bremen beat hamburg in cup semi-final bremen beat hamburg on penalties to reach the cup final .
bremen 's goalie tim wiese was the man of the game as he saved three penalties .
his side will now face leverkusen in the final .
-lrb- 23.04.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 dw-tv europe live kino we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inside europe listen live dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report high scorer freiburg 's papiss demba cisse opens up to dw-tv 's bundesliga kick off ! about his goalscoring ways .
watch the report scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results at a glance .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia moenchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
bremen book a place in the uefa cup final , clinching a win against rivals hamburg -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 16.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de soccer -pipe- 07.05.2009 bremen book a place in the uefa cup final , clinching a win against rivals hamburg großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bremen 's diego scores but will miss the uefa cup final .
werder bremen came from a goal down to win 3-2 away to sv hamburg thursday to book a uefa cup final date in istanbul against ukrainian side shakhtar donetsk . diego , claudio pizarro and frank baumann were the goal-scoring heroes for bremen to advance to their first ever european final on may 20 in istanbul .
bremen went into the clash trailing 1-0 from the first leg but conceded a goal to hosts hamburg in the 13th minute when joris mathijsen powered his way upfield from defence before finding ivica olic who chipped the ball over bremen 's goalkeepr tim wiese .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : hamburgs 's ivica olic , left , scores his side 's first goal past bremen 's goalkeeper tim wiese olic could have doubled hamburg 's lead on 27 minutes but his effort from close range was saved .
within two minutes bremen were level when diego and pizarro combined well before the brazilian slotted the ball past frank rost .
diego nearly netted a second on 37 minutes but his shot from 25 metres hit the crossbar .
however , the 24-year-old was booked two minutes before the break for an off-the-ball row with alex silva , who also saw yellow , meaning the brazilian will miss the final .
" it was a difficult situation i did n't do anything , not to go to the final is very bad for me , " said diego .
peruvian striker pizarro scored on 66 minutes , beating rost at the near post although the hamburg goalkeeper really should have done better .
baumann looked to have put the game beyond hamburg with bremen 's third seven minutes from time and although olic popped up to score his second of the game to make it 3-2 on the night to set up a tense finale , bremen held on to make it to their first uefa cup final .
" we played well , it was tough to come from two goals down , " said pizarro .
" diego played a great match its a pity he 's not in the final but thats football . "
bremen are the first german side to reach a uefa cup final since borussia dortmund reached the final in 2002 only to lose against feyenoord rotterdam .
ruhr valley side schalke 04 were the last german winners back in 1997 .
same procedure ?
thursday 's semi-final fixture is the third in a series of four matches to be played between the two northern german clubs within a 19-day period . the first game went bremen 's way when goalkeeper tim wiese made three saves in a penalty shootout to knock hamburg out of the german cup semi-final on april 22 . the second saw hamburg gain revenge eight days later with its 0-1 victory in bremen .
the fourth and final derby match is a bundesliga fixture scheduled for sunday , may 10 . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : thomas schaaf has coached werder bremen for a decade intense rivalry as the two biggest cities in northern germany , hamburg and bremen have a long history of competing with each other as hanseatic trading powers , regional centers of industry and culture , and sporting contenders . " what 's very special is that they more or less share the same backyard from which they can get their soccer fans , " deutsche welle 's sports head wolfgang van kann says .
" so it 's always a question of who is better , and where the fans will go . " from a historical perspective , it 's difficult to say which club has been more successful .
according to the so-called " eternal table , " which records the performances of all bundesliga clubs since the competition was founded in 1963 , werder bremen and hamburg are ranked second and third respectively .
at the time of writing , they were separated by just six points . " clearly hamburg has the longer tradition and the longer streak of success , " van kann says .
" bremen has only come up in the last one or two decades , but with huge success . " while hamburg has n't won a title since it lifted the german cup in 1987 , bremen won the german double in 2004 and has qualified for the champions league for the past five seasons . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : fans were disgusted when hooligans killed a 16-year-old in 1982 " the clubs have always been very different , " van kann explains .
" for example you can see that hamburg has had several coaches within the past few years , while bremen has only had one coach for the last 10 years . " fan violence one thing the two clubs do have in common is a dedicated fan base .
hamburg boasts almost 55,000 members , while bremen has more than 30,000 .
but violence involving so-called " ultras " and militant fan groups has driven a wedge between the two cities on more than one occasion . the worst incident took place in october 1982 , when hamburg hosted bremen for a second-round german cup match .
despite a large police presence around the main train station and the stadium , hooligans belonging to a group known as the " hamburg lions " attacked visitors with beer cans , stones and fireworks . a 16-year-old bremen fan named adrian maleika was killed after he was hit on the head by a stone .
while most of germany was shocked , a number of hard-line fans were quoted in the press as being indifferent or hungry for revenge . tensions between supporters of the rival clubs threatened to boil over until representatives of more than 200 fan groups met in the town of scheessel , half-way between bremen and hamburg , and signed a " peace deal " banning revenge attacks . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : werder bremen topped the bundesliga in 1993 and 2004 while provocative lyrics sung in stadiums during northern derbies occasionally refer to the incident , most fans have put the conflict behind them , and prefer to remember - or forget - these four landmark matches from the past 30 years : bremen 6-0 hamburg , may 1 , 2004 the most one-sided result between the two clubs was in bremen as the 2003-04 bundesliga season drew to an end .
some 42,000 spectators watched hamburg striker sergej barbarez score an own-goal and trigger an avalanche of bremen goals .
one match later , werder bremen won the championship with a spectacular 3-1 victory over bayern munich . bremen 4-2 hamburg , october 27 , 1993 just over 34,000 fans turned out to watch the fourth round german cup fixture in bremen 's weserstadion .
austrian midfielder andreas herzog gave bremen an early lead , but hamburg managed to score twice after the break before bernd hobsch leveled the scores in the 74th minute .
when hamburg 's andreas sassen was shown a red card , bremen 's frank neubarth and wynton rufer capitalized by both finding the net in the final four minutes .
the convincing victory saw werder bremen progress through the tournament to win the 1993 german cup . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : horst hrubesch was a key player for hamburg in 1982 .
bremen 5-0 hamburg , may 29 , 1993 bremen also secured the bundesliga crown with one game to spare in 1993 thanks to this overwhelming victory .
andreas herzog and wynton rufer both scored as the home crowd celebrated their club 's third title .
bremen ended the season one point ahead of bayern munich , leaving hamburg to finish 11th .
legendary bremen coach otto rehhagel described the victory as a " milestone " for the club . hamburg 5-0 bremen , may 15 , 1982 one of hamburg 's two highest-ever wins against their northern derby rivals came in the closing stages of the 1981/1982 campaign .
a total of 53,400 fans watched horst hrubesch - now germany 's under-21 coach - score a hat-trick as hamburg demolished bremen 's defense to win the bundesliga title at the expense of second-placed fc cologne . author : sam edmonds editor : darren mara send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de hamburg move closer to uefa final after bremen defeat sv hamburg took the advantage on thursday after defeating bremen 1-0 in the first leg of their uefa cup semi-final matches .
hamburg 's coach says their position is good for the second leg , but bremen is not giving up .
-lrb- 01.05.2009 -rrb- german , ukrainian clubs fight for uefa cup honors domestic pride will be at stake in europe when ukrainian and german clubs battle against each other in the semi-finals of the uefa cup in first-leg matches on thursday .
-lrb- 30.04.2009 -rrb- werder bremen beat hamburg in cup semi-final bremen beat hamburg on penalties to reach the cup final .
bremen 's goalie tim wiese was the man of the game as he saved three penalties .
his side will now face leverkusen in the final .
-lrb- 23.04.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 dw-tv europe live im focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live arts on the air listen live dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report new feature week three picks dw sports sizes up the week three match-ups in the bundesliga .
and hopes to pick a couple right .
scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results at a glance .
dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia moenchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german language lover on quest to save " chinglish " -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 11.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de from the fringe -pipe- 07.05.2009 german language lover on quest to save " chinglish " großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : just one of the thousands of examples to be found in china a german multimedia producer is working hard to preserve chinglish – china 's special version of english – for future generations . for 32-year-old oliver radtke , his fascination with chinglish began in 2000 , when he noticed a sign while in a shanghai taxi : " do n't forget to carry your thing , " it said .
since then , he has published two books on the subject . most recently , " more chinglish - speaking in tongues , " which hit shelves in april . he also maintains a popular online blog .
there is a view held by many in china , and not least by the authorities , that chinglish is an embarrassment that must be wiped out at all costs .
radtke disagrees .
he says the " language " should be preserved .
" there is a lot in chinglish that is so much more than just incompetent english or incorrect english , " he said .
" a lot of the chinglish signs carry a certain chinese notion in them which enriches the english language and makes english more chinese in the sense that there is a certain chinese flavor , a certain chinese way of thinking . "
radtke focuses on written examples of the lingo on signboards , menu cards and shop fronts .
some signs highlighted in his books are decidedly politically incorrect - " cripple 's lane , " rather than " wheelchair path , " or " deformed man toilet , " instead of " handicapped restroom . "
others are more poetic , such as one sign reminding visitors to one section of the great wall of china to be careful : " do not forget the fire is heartless . "
chinese citizens warming to " chinglish " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : oliver 's book " welcome to presence " " the initial reaction of many chinese users was very much against the project .
they thought i was making fun of them , " radtke said .
but he says the chinese are increasingly supportive of his efforts , and many have come to understand that he believes chinglish is in fact enriching the english language .
radtke , as a german , believes the entire notion of one single , standard version of english is outdated because it now has far more than one billion regular users worldwide , and a rapidly growing number speak it as their second language .
in recent years , china has kicked off campaigns to root out poor english grammar and misused vocabulary in official usage .
much to radtke 's horror , the most famous of these drives took place in beijing prior to the olympic games in august last year .
during that time , authorities rechristened the dongda proctology hospital , formerly the dongda anus hospital .
however radtke maintains these campaigns will never fully succeed .
he 's optimistic that chinglish will never disappear from the mainstream .
" i 'm pessimistic when it comes to official signs in the big cities .
but restaurants , companies , private institutions , small shop owners will all produce a lot of chinglish , " he says . cg , dfm afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de eu to english speakers : put your mouth where the money is the european union wants native english speakers to put their mouths where the money is : translation work .
the bloc , which has 23 official languages , is sending out an urgent youtube plea for more english translators .
-lrb- 19.02.2009 -rrb- immigrants help create new type of german language in multicultural urban areas of germany , a new variant of german has evolved with its own grammar and rhythm .
this ethnolect is spoken among young migrants of various ethnic backgrounds as well as young native germans .
-lrb- 08.12.2007 -rrb- wanderlust sends german words traveling what do autobahn , fest , flugelhorn , angst and gesundheit all have in common ?
you guessed it : they all come from the language of goethe , thomas mann and rammstein .
you know more german words than you think you do .
-lrb- 08.08.2006 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 dw-tv europe live kultur.21 we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live in-box feedback from around the world listen live cities at the heart of most european cities , there 's a plaza , piazza or platz where everything happens .
place charles de gaulle , paris plaza mayor , madrid potsdamer platz , berlin st. mark 's square , venice literature urban writing crowded , intriguing and often impovrished , the world 's megacities inspire their writers .
culture calendar september happenings from music and art to film and dance - find out what 's going on in germany 's cultural scene .
podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's new free podcast .
clip no. 1 - luis und laserpower clip no. 2 - abel & cain clip no. 3 - baby benzin clip no. 4 - the intersphere subscribe on itunes get the rss feed word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
hits in germany concert hour music this week arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german language lover on quest to save " chinglish " -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de from the fringe -pipe- 07.05.2009 german language lover on quest to save " chinglish " großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : just one of the thousands of examples to be found in china a german multimedia producer is working hard to preserve chinglish – china 's special version of english – for future generations . for 32-year-old oliver radtke , his fascination with chinglish began in 2000 , when he noticed a sign while in a shanghai taxi : " do n't forget to carry your thing , " it said .
since then , he has published two books on the subject . most recently , " more chinglish - speaking in tongues , " which hit shelves in april . he also maintains a popular online blog .
there is a view held by many in china , and not least by the authorities , that chinglish is an embarrassment that must be wiped out at all costs .
radtke disagrees .
he says the " language " should be preserved .
" there is a lot in chinglish that is so much more than just incompetent english or incorrect english , " he said .
" a lot of the chinglish signs carry a certain chinese notion in them which enriches the english language and makes english more chinese in the sense that there is a certain chinese flavor , a certain chinese way of thinking . "
radtke focuses on written examples of the lingo on signboards , menu cards and shop fronts .
some signs highlighted in his books are decidedly politically incorrect - " cripple 's lane , " rather than " wheelchair path , " or " deformed man toilet , " instead of " handicapped restroom . "
others are more poetic , such as one sign reminding visitors to one section of the great wall of china to be careful : " do not forget the fire is heartless . "
chinese citizens warming to " chinglish " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : oliver 's book " welcome to presence " " the initial reaction of many chinese users was very much against the project .
they thought i was making fun of them , " radtke said .
but he says the chinese are increasingly supportive of his efforts , and many have come to understand that he believes chinglish is in fact enriching the english language .
radtke , as a german , believes the entire notion of one single , standard version of english is outdated because it now has far more than one billion regular users worldwide , and a rapidly growing number speak it as their second language .
in recent years , china has kicked off campaigns to root out poor english grammar and misused vocabulary in official usage .
much to radtke 's horror , the most famous of these drives took place in beijing prior to the olympic games in august last year .
during that time , authorities rechristened the dongda proctology hospital , formerly the dongda anus hospital .
however radtke maintains these campaigns will never fully succeed .
he 's optimistic that chinglish will never disappear from the mainstream .
" i 'm pessimistic when it comes to official signs in the big cities .
but restaurants , companies , private institutions , small shop owners will all produce a lot of chinglish , " he says . cg , dfm afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de eu to english speakers : put your mouth where the money is the european union wants native english speakers to put their mouths where the money is : translation work .
the bloc , which has 23 official languages , is sending out an urgent youtube plea for more english translators .
-lrb- 19.02.2009 -rrb- immigrants help create new type of german language in multicultural urban areas of germany , a new variant of german has evolved with its own grammar and rhythm .
this ethnolect is spoken among young migrants of various ethnic backgrounds as well as young native germans .
-lrb- 08.12.2007 -rrb- wanderlust sends german words traveling what do autobahn , fest , flugelhorn , angst and gesundheit all have in common ?
you guessed it : they all come from the language of goethe , thomas mann and rammstein .
you know more german words than you think you do .
-lrb- 08.08.2006 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's new free podcast .
' clip ' homepage clip no. 6 - klee clip no. 7 - einshoch6 clip no. 8 - johannes stankowski clip no. 9 - the bonny situation subscribe on itunes get the rss feed visit germany dw-tv tells you the top things to visit in this fun rhineland city .
" recommended " as video on demand download here -lrb- mp4 -rrb- cologne cologne carnival the claudius therme ' suenner im walfisch ' brewery -lrb- german -rrb- word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
hits in germany concert hour music this week arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth music dw presents podcasts of performances by top artists at the 2010 beethovenfest .
podcasts on itunes more on beethoven news quiz test your knowledge with the news quiz ! © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german language lover on quest to save " chinglish " -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 15.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de from the fringe -pipe- 07.05.2009 german language lover on quest to save " chinglish " großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : just one of the thousands of examples to be found in china a german multimedia producer is working hard to preserve chinglish – china 's special version of english – for future generations . for 32-year-old oliver radtke , his fascination with chinglish began in 2000 , when he noticed a sign while in a shanghai taxi : " do n't forget to carry your thing , " it said .
since then , he has published two books on the subject . most recently , " more chinglish - speaking in tongues , " which hit shelves in april . he also maintains a popular online blog .
there is a view held by many in china , and not least by the authorities , that chinglish is an embarrassment that must be wiped out at all costs .
radtke disagrees .
he says the " language " should be preserved .
" there is a lot in chinglish that is so much more than just incompetent english or incorrect english , " he said .
" a lot of the chinglish signs carry a certain chinese notion in them which enriches the english language and makes english more chinese in the sense that there is a certain chinese flavor , a certain chinese way of thinking . "
radtke focuses on written examples of the lingo on signboards , menu cards and shop fronts .
some signs highlighted in his books are decidedly politically incorrect - " cripple 's lane , " rather than " wheelchair path , " or " deformed man toilet , " instead of " handicapped restroom . "
others are more poetic , such as one sign reminding visitors to one section of the great wall of china to be careful : " do not forget the fire is heartless . "
chinese citizens warming to " chinglish " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : oliver 's book " welcome to presence " " the initial reaction of many chinese users was very much against the project .
they thought i was making fun of them , " radtke said .
but he says the chinese are increasingly supportive of his efforts , and many have come to understand that he believes chinglish is in fact enriching the english language .
radtke , as a german , believes the entire notion of one single , standard version of english is outdated because it now has far more than one billion regular users worldwide , and a rapidly growing number speak it as their second language .
in recent years , china has kicked off campaigns to root out poor english grammar and misused vocabulary in official usage .
much to radtke 's horror , the most famous of these drives took place in beijing prior to the olympic games in august last year .
during that time , authorities rechristened the dongda proctology hospital , formerly the dongda anus hospital .
however radtke maintains these campaigns will never fully succeed .
he 's optimistic that chinglish will never disappear from the mainstream .
" i 'm pessimistic when it comes to official signs in the big cities .
but restaurants , companies , private institutions , small shop owners will all produce a lot of chinglish , " he says . cg , dfm afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de eu to english speakers : put your mouth where the money is the european union wants native english speakers to put their mouths where the money is : translation work .
the bloc , which has 23 official languages , is sending out an urgent youtube plea for more english translators .
-lrb- 19.02.2009 -rrb- immigrants help create new type of german language in multicultural urban areas of germany , a new variant of german has evolved with its own grammar and rhythm .
this ethnolect is spoken among young migrants of various ethnic backgrounds as well as young native germans .
-lrb- 08.12.2007 -rrb- wanderlust sends german words traveling what do autobahn , fest , flugelhorn , angst and gesundheit all have in common ?
you guessed it : they all come from the language of goethe , thomas mann and rammstein .
you know more german words than you think you do .
-lrb- 08.08.2006 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live living planet environment matters from around the world listen live culture calendar october happenings from music and art to film and dance - find out what 's going on in germany 's cultural scene .
music dw presents podcasts of performances by top artists at the 2010 beethovenfest .
podcasts on itunes more on beethoven podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's new free podcast .
clip no. 1 - luis und laserpower clip no. 2 - abel & cain clip no. 3 - baby benzin clip no. 4 - the intersphere clip no. 5 - shantel subscribe on itunes get the rss feed word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
hits in germany concert hour music this week arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german language lover on quest to save " chinglish " -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 30.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de from the fringe -pipe- 07.05.2009 german language lover on quest to save " chinglish " großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : just one of the thousands of examples to be found in china a german multimedia producer is working hard to preserve chinglish – china 's special version of english – for future generations . for 32-year-old oliver radtke , his fascination with chinglish began in 2000 , when he noticed a sign while in a shanghai taxi : " do n't forget to carry your thing , " it said .
since then , he has published two books on the subject . most recently , " more chinglish - speaking in tongues , " which hit shelves in april . he also maintains a popular online blog .
there is a view held by many in china , and not least by the authorities , that chinglish is an embarrassment that must be wiped out at all costs .
radtke disagrees .
he says the " language " should be preserved .
" there is a lot in chinglish that is so much more than just incompetent english or incorrect english , " he said .
" a lot of the chinglish signs carry a certain chinese notion in them which enriches the english language and makes english more chinese in the sense that there is a certain chinese flavor , a certain chinese way of thinking . "
radtke focuses on written examples of the lingo on signboards , menu cards and shop fronts .
some signs highlighted in his books are decidedly politically incorrect - " cripple 's lane , " rather than " wheelchair path , " or " deformed man toilet , " instead of " handicapped restroom . "
others are more poetic , such as one sign reminding visitors to one section of the great wall of china to be careful : " do not forget the fire is heartless . "
chinese citizens warming to " chinglish " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : oliver 's book " welcome to presence " " the initial reaction of many chinese users was very much against the project .
they thought i was making fun of them , " radtke said .
but he says the chinese are increasingly supportive of his efforts , and many have come to understand that he believes chinglish is in fact enriching the english language .
radtke , as a german , believes the entire notion of one single , standard version of english is outdated because it now has far more than one billion regular users worldwide , and a rapidly growing number speak it as their second language .
in recent years , china has kicked off campaigns to root out poor english grammar and misused vocabulary in official usage .
much to radtke 's horror , the most famous of these drives took place in beijing prior to the olympic games in august last year .
during that time , authorities rechristened the dongda proctology hospital , formerly the dongda anus hospital .
however radtke maintains these campaigns will never fully succeed .
he 's optimistic that chinglish will never disappear from the mainstream .
" i 'm pessimistic when it comes to official signs in the big cities .
but restaurants , companies , private institutions , small shop owners will all produce a lot of chinglish , " he says . cg , dfm afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de eu to english speakers : put your mouth where the money is the european union wants native english speakers to put their mouths where the money is : translation work .
the bloc , which has 23 official languages , is sending out an urgent youtube plea for more english translators .
-lrb- 19.02.2009 -rrb- immigrants help create new type of german language in multicultural urban areas of germany , a new variant of german has evolved with its own grammar and rhythm .
this ethnolect is spoken among young migrants of various ethnic backgrounds as well as young native germans .
-lrb- 08.12.2007 -rrb- wanderlust sends german words traveling what do autobahn , fest , flugelhorn , angst and gesundheit all have in common ?
you guessed it : they all come from the language of goethe , thomas mann and rammstein .
you know more german words than you think you do .
-lrb- 08.08.2006 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
picture gallery christmas markets holiday cheer ís easy to come by during the advent season in germany .
podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's new free podcast .
' clip ' homepage clip no. 3 - baby benzin clip no. 4 - the intersphere clip no. 5 - shantel clip no. 6 - klee clip no. 7 - einshoch6 subscribe on itunes get the rss feed word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
hits in germany concert hour music this week arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth music dw presents podcasts of performances by top artists at the 2010 beethovenfest .
podcasts on itunes more on beethoven © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
berlin holds 47 percent of troubled hypo real estate -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 10.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de economy -pipe- 07.05.2009 berlin holds 47 percent of troubled hypo real estate großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : berlin 's buy up of shares has given the green light to nationalization the german government has announced it now holds more than 47 percent of the mortgage lender , hypo real estate , following its decision to take over the troubled lender . the government 's financial market stabilization fund , soffin , now holds a 47.31 percent share of munich-based hre , after the government 's bid to buy up shareholders ' stock .
the government 's offer , worth 290 million euros -lrb- $ 386 million -rrb- , expired at midnight monday .
each share had a cash offer of 1.39 euros .
in berlin , finance minister peer steinbrueck said he was pleased with the results of the share buy offer .
" this now means the government can continue with the planned takeover of hre shares , according to stock corporation law , " he said .
" only with the complete government takeover can hre 's survival be ensured and the taxpayers ' interests protected , " steinbrueck added . despite the fact that berlin failed to come up with 50 percent of shares , steinbrueck said that soffin could complete a takeover of the firm through means made available by german shareholder law .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : soffin 's rehm says hypo needs to be rescued to ensure the stabilty of germany 's economy hannes rehm , chairman of the soffin management committee , is optimistic that will happen : " we will consistently pursue our efforts to stabilize hre , " he said .
" the bank is of systemic relevance and must be rescued in order to ensure stability of the financial markets and the german economy .
i expect the envisaged capital increase to be approved by the extraordinary general meeting , " he added .
a capital increase is a type of equity issuance in which new stocks are offered for sale .
hre shareholders have been invited to the extraordinary general meeting on june 2 .
at the meeting , soffin will subscribe all of the new shares , excluding subscription rights of the shareholders .
this will give it a majority of 90 percent , as well as voting rights .
that will pave the way for a takeover of the shares held by the remaining minority shareholders - through a so-called " squeeze-out " procedure .
soffin does not expect the price to exceed the original offer price of 1.39 euros per share .
us private equity firm jc flowers & co , which rejects the government 's plans , still owns about 14 percent of hre . cg / rm , reuters / dp / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de nationalization is on the horizon for beleagered hypo real estate bank the german government has invested more than 100 billion euros in ailing mortgage lender hypo real estate bank to ensure it does n't collapse - now it wants total control .
-lrb- 05.05.2009 -rrb- hre to post more losses , takeover deadline looms as the german government and a us investment group battle over shares in the hypo real estate bank , it seems the struggling lender is still losing money .
-lrb- 04.05.2009 -rrb- flowers rejects government takeover bid for hre a major legal battle for the ownership of german bank hypo real estate is looming after a major investor rejected a bid from the german government .
-lrb- 30.04.2009 -rrb- 9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx - leben und kultur in europa we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
business the historic german brand faber-castell celebrates 250 years of making pencils and pens .
watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
berlin holds 47 percent of troubled hypo real estate -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 17.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de economy -pipe- 07.05.2009 berlin holds 47 percent of troubled hypo real estate großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : berlin 's buy up of shares has given the green light to nationalization the german government has announced it now holds more than 47 percent of the mortgage lender , hypo real estate , following its decision to take over the troubled lender . the government 's financial market stabilization fund , soffin , now holds a 47.31 percent share of munich-based hre , after the government 's bid to buy up shareholders ' stock .
the government 's offer , worth 290 million euros -lrb- $ 386 million -rrb- , expired at midnight monday .
each share had a cash offer of 1.39 euros .
in berlin , finance minister peer steinbrueck said he was pleased with the results of the share buy offer .
" this now means the government can continue with the planned takeover of hre shares , according to stock corporation law , " he said .
" only with the complete government takeover can hre 's survival be ensured and the taxpayers ' interests protected , " steinbrueck added . despite the fact that berlin failed to come up with 50 percent of shares , steinbrueck said that soffin could complete a takeover of the firm through means made available by german shareholder law .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : soffin 's rehm says hypo needs to be rescued to ensure the stabilty of germany 's economy hannes rehm , chairman of the soffin management committee , is optimistic that will happen : " we will consistently pursue our efforts to stabilize hre , " he said .
" the bank is of systemic relevance and must be rescued in order to ensure stability of the financial markets and the german economy .
i expect the envisaged capital increase to be approved by the extraordinary general meeting , " he added .
a capital increase is a type of equity issuance in which new stocks are offered for sale .
hre shareholders have been invited to the extraordinary general meeting on june 2 .
at the meeting , soffin will subscribe all of the new shares , excluding subscription rights of the shareholders .
this will give it a majority of 90 percent , as well as voting rights .
that will pave the way for a takeover of the shares held by the remaining minority shareholders - through a so-called " squeeze-out " procedure .
soffin does not expect the price to exceed the original offer price of 1.39 euros per share .
us private equity firm jc flowers & co , which rejects the government 's plans , still owns about 14 percent of hre . cg / rm , reuters / dp / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de nationalization is on the horizon for beleagered hypo real estate bank the german government has invested more than 100 billion euros in ailing mortgage lender hypo real estate bank to ensure it does n't collapse - now it wants total control .
-lrb- 05.05.2009 -rrb- hre to post more losses , takeover deadline looms as the german government and a us investment group battle over shares in the hypo real estate bank , it seems the struggling lender is still losing money .
-lrb- 04.05.2009 -rrb- flowers rejects government takeover bid for hre a major legal battle for the ownership of german bank hypo real estate is looming after a major investor rejected a bid from the german government .
-lrb- 30.04.2009 -rrb- 9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live im focus - dokumentationen und reportagen we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
digital street art artists in berlin reinvent graffiti by projecting light onto buildings using computer systems .
watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
doubts remain over medvedev 's power and policy after first year in office -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 09.11.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de russia -pipe- 07.05.2009 doubts remain over medvedev 's power and policy after first year in office großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : medvedev has had a busy first 12 months in power russian president dmitry medvedev marks the one-year anniversary of his coming to power on may 7 .
twelve months on , questions and doubts still remain over his legitimacy and his policies . global opinion was divided when dmitry medvedev became russian president on may 7 last year .
some saw the new leader as a puppet of vladimir putin , his predecessor and the man who medvedev had served loyally throughout his two terms in office .
others saw the incoming president as a man who could drive russia down a more liberal and democratic road , and reverse decades of state oppression .
one year on – a year during which medvedev has waged his first war and has been thrust into the forefront of the worst global economic crisis for over 80 years – questions and doubts still remain over whether medvedev is really the man leading russia and if he is , whether he is the right man to reform his nation .
so to what extent has medvedev been successful in attempting to answer those questions leveled against him ?
" from medvedev 's point of view , it 's probably been quite a successful year , " sam greene , the deputy director for operations at the carnegie endowment for international peace in moscow , told deutsche welle .
" this dual system of government which was put together – with medvedev as president and putin as prime minister – has not been without its problems but it 's worked relatively well .
it 's kept the ruling elite relatively cohesive and both medvedev and putin have remained popular politically and are seen as relatively legitimate both at home and internationally .
so it has been a success story for the experiment – which is what this presidency with putin as prime minister is ; a huge political experiment .
" but from a policy perspective , in terms of the reforms that medvedev talked about prior to becoming president ; strengthening the rule of law , diversifying the economy – there really have n't been any policy successes , " he added .
" his rhetoric has been very good .
he speaks very ably on the rule of law , on democracy , on economic liberalism but there was a lot of good rhetoric from putin on these issues for eight years and we did n't see any progress in that direction from him either . "
criticism stems from lack of reform progress much of the analysis of medvedev 's first year in power focuses on these promised reforms and the progress – or lack thereof – that russia has made in the spheres of democracy , human rights and press freedom .
according to professor margot light , a russia expert at the center for the study of global governance at the london school of economics , medvedev has fallen short of the optimists ' expectations .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : medvedev was initially against khodorkovsky 's second trial " there have been many words but very few deeds , " she said .
" medvedev came to power with everyone saying that he was far more liberal than putin .
in fact there has been very little sign of this .
it 's only been in the last couple of weeks that he 's started to talk the liberal talk , by giving an interview to an opposition newspaper , for example .
but apart from that there have been very little progress .
there has been the second trial of -lrb- jailed russian oil oligarch mikhail -rrb- khodorkovsky , even though medvedev himself seemed to be against it ; the electronic media is no freer than it was before he came to power and the non-governmental organizations are still having a tough time so there a very few signs that he has made much progress on the democratization front . "
meanwhile , amnesty international declared on the president 's first anniversary that little had been done to improve human rights in russia since he came to power .
in a statement released on thursday , amnesty said that in some areas the situation has deteriorated despite initial improvements , specifically in relation to attacks against lawyers , journalists and opposition activists which it said were on the rise .
sam greene agrees .
" the situation with the press has n't got any better , in fact in some cases it has actually gotten worse , " he said .
" we 've seen more violence against the press .
this is not state-sponsored violence but it 's part of the current climate and it is part of the responsibility of the state to improve the atmosphere and to make clear that violence against the media will not be tolerated .
" in terms of democracy , there was some talk about reforms to the electoral laws but they 've been slow in coming , " he added .
" we saw municipal elections around the country in which the ruling party continued to dominate , continued to rely on administrative resources and its ability to manipulate the system .
we saw this very clearly in the recent mayoral elections in sochi just like month . "
leadership partners still hugely popular in russia despite these criticisms , neither medvedev nor putin has suffered a serious reversal in popularity within the populace .
in fact , both retain huge support within russia .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : medvedev is gaining the kind of star status putin enjoys " medvedev enjoys very high ratings but the problem has always been that russians appear to prefer order to justice , " light said .
" russians are in favor of tough measures if they believe that those tough measures actually make the country more orderly .
so the president and putin still enjoy enormous support from the population . "
sam greene admits that medvedev and putin may have seen a minor dip in popularity but this is mainly due to the current economic crisis , which has seen unemployment in russia increase and income decrease , and not because of any democratic or liberal failures .
but greene believes that the population does n't hold the leadership partners responsible for its economic woes .
“ the people do n't blame medvedev and putin for these problems nor do they really expect the government or medvedev to be able to do much about them , " he said .
" the people are quite pragmatic , if not cynical , about the russian government 's ability to deal with this crisis . "
while medvedev 's polices have been increasingly scrutinized since he came to power , the partnership agreement struck between the president and his prime minister has also come under close inspection during this first year .
questions remain over who really is the boss bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the partnership has to and will endure , say experts the state of the two men 's relationship has been the subject of intense speculation lately as medvedev has grown into his role and repeated reports of an imminent split between the two have begun to circulate .
but both sam greene and margot light believe the partnership will endure .
" i think there was a very clear arrangement between the two of them ahead of their presidential election under which it was agreed that they were playing on the same team and playing the same role which was to maintain the outward legitimacy and stability of the political system and to mediate conflict between the various groups in the elite , " greene said .
" i would n't expect them to work at cross purposes unless there was a real split between the powerful elite in the country .
there seems to be a broad consensus that this current system needs to continue so i think the relationship between medvedev and putin will remain stable .
the only thing that 's changed is that medvedev has become a bit more comfortable in the position , has begun to understand what he can and can not do and become more confident with his rhetoric and his public persona . "
" there have been lots of attempts to find cracks between them , " light added .
" i think it 's fanciful .
i see no cracks between them .
if medvedev was there just to hold the place for putin until he could run again , the danger was always that medvedev would like the taste of power and decide he wanted to keep it for himself .
i see no sign that this has happened – yet , at any rate .
" however , internationally , medvedev is still seen very much as an instrument of putin 's policy , " light concluded .
" although he fulfills all the roles the constitution affords to the president , i still think there is a very strong feeling internationally that putin is making the decisions and medvedev is simply doing his bidding . "
author : nick amies editor chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de pro-kremlin candidate wins sochi mayoral poll amid claims of fraud amid claims of fraud , anatoly pakhomov , the pro-kremlin candidate in mayoral polls for the russian city of sochi , won a landslide victory in an election seen as a test of the political climate under president medvedev .
-lrb- 27.04.2009 -rrb- critics call putin treason bill means to quash opposition human rights organizations have criticized a new bill that would abolish jury trials for people suspected of treason , hostage-taking , organizing mass disturbances and several other serious crimes .
-lrb- 18.12.2008 -rrb- opinion : russia 's power duo offers tenuous political stability it 's an action-packed week in russian politics with dmitry medvedev and vladimir putin taking up their respective offices .
yet everything is not as rosy as it might appear , says deutsche welle 's ingo mannteufel .
-lrb- 05.05.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live faith matters we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inspired minds listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
bremen book a place in the uefa cup final , clinching a win against rivals hamburg -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 11.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de soccer -pipe- 07.05.2009 bremen book a place in the uefa cup final , clinching a win against rivals hamburg großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bremen 's diego scores but will miss the uefa cup final .
werder bremen came from a goal down to win 3-2 away to sv hamburg thursday to book a uefa cup final date in istanbul against ukrainian side shakhtar donetsk . diego , claudio pizarro and frank baumann were the goal-scoring heroes for bremen to advance to their first ever european final on may 20 in istanbul .
bremen went into the clash trailing 1-0 from the first leg but conceded a goal to hosts hamburg in the 13th minute when joris mathijsen powered his way upfield from defence before finding ivica olic who chipped the ball over bremen 's goalkeepr tim wiese .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : hamburgs 's ivica olic , left , scores his side 's first goal past bremen 's goalkeeper tim wiese olic could have doubled hamburg 's lead on 27 minutes but his effort from close range was saved .
within two minutes bremen were level when diego and pizarro combined well before the brazilian slotted the ball past frank rost .
diego nearly netted a second on 37 minutes but his shot from 25 metres hit the crossbar .
however , the 24-year-old was booked two minutes before the break for an off-the-ball row with alex silva , who also saw yellow , meaning the brazilian will miss the final .
" it was a difficult situation i did n't do anything , not to go to the final is very bad for me , " said diego .
peruvian striker pizarro scored on 66 minutes , beating rost at the near post although the hamburg goalkeeper really should have done better .
baumann looked to have put the game beyond hamburg with bremen 's third seven minutes from time and although olic popped up to score his second of the game to make it 3-2 on the night to set up a tense finale , bremen held on to make it to their first uefa cup final .
" we played well , it was tough to come from two goals down , " said pizarro .
" diego played a great match its a pity he 's not in the final but thats football . "
bremen are the first german side to reach a uefa cup final since borussia dortmund reached the final in 2002 only to lose against feyenoord rotterdam .
ruhr valley side schalke 04 were the last german winners back in 1997 .
same procedure ?
thursday 's semi-final fixture is the third in a series of four matches to be played between the two northern german clubs within a 19-day period . the first game went bremen 's way when goalkeeper tim wiese made three saves in a penalty shootout to knock hamburg out of the german cup semi-final on april 22 . the second saw hamburg gain revenge eight days later with its 0-1 victory in bremen .
the fourth and final derby match is a bundesliga fixture scheduled for sunday , may 10 . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : thomas schaaf has coached werder bremen for a decade intense rivalry as the two biggest cities in northern germany , hamburg and bremen have a long history of competing with each other as hanseatic trading powers , regional centers of industry and culture , and sporting contenders . " what 's very special is that they more or less share the same backyard from which they can get their soccer fans , " deutsche welle 's sports head wolfgang van kann says .
" so it 's always a question of who is better , and where the fans will go . " from a historical perspective , it 's difficult to say which club has been more successful .
according to the so-called " eternal table , " which records the performances of all bundesliga clubs since the competition was founded in 1963 , werder bremen and hamburg are ranked second and third respectively .
at the time of writing , they were separated by just six points . " clearly hamburg has the longer tradition and the longer streak of success , " van kann says .
" bremen has only come up in the last one or two decades , but with huge success . " while hamburg has n't won a title since it lifted the german cup in 1987 , bremen won the german double in 2004 and has qualified for the champions league for the past five seasons . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : fans were disgusted when hooligans killed a 16-year-old in 1982 " the clubs have always been very different , " van kann explains .
" for example you can see that hamburg has had several coaches within the past few years , while bremen has only had one coach for the last 10 years . " fan violence one thing the two clubs do have in common is a dedicated fan base .
hamburg boasts almost 55,000 members , while bremen has more than 30,000 .
but violence involving so-called " ultras " and militant fan groups has driven a wedge between the two cities on more than one occasion . the worst incident took place in october 1982 , when hamburg hosted bremen for a second-round german cup match .
despite a large police presence around the main train station and the stadium , hooligans belonging to a group known as the " hamburg lions " attacked visitors with beer cans , stones and fireworks . a 16-year-old bremen fan named adrian maleika was killed after he was hit on the head by a stone .
while most of germany was shocked , a number of hard-line fans were quoted in the press as being indifferent or hungry for revenge . tensions between supporters of the rival clubs threatened to boil over until representatives of more than 200 fan groups met in the town of scheessel , half-way between bremen and hamburg , and signed a " peace deal " banning revenge attacks . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : werder bremen topped the bundesliga in 1993 and 2004 while provocative lyrics sung in stadiums during northern derbies occasionally refer to the incident , most fans have put the conflict behind them , and prefer to remember - or forget - these four landmark matches from the past 30 years : bremen 6-0 hamburg , may 1 , 2004 the most one-sided result between the two clubs was in bremen as the 2003-04 bundesliga season drew to an end .
some 42,000 spectators watched hamburg striker sergej barbarez score an own-goal and trigger an avalanche of bremen goals .
one match later , werder bremen won the championship with a spectacular 3-1 victory over bayern munich . bremen 4-2 hamburg , october 27 , 1993 just over 34,000 fans turned out to watch the fourth round german cup fixture in bremen 's weserstadion .
austrian midfielder andreas herzog gave bremen an early lead , but hamburg managed to score twice after the break before bernd hobsch leveled the scores in the 74th minute .
when hamburg 's andreas sassen was shown a red card , bremen 's frank neubarth and wynton rufer capitalized by both finding the net in the final four minutes .
the convincing victory saw werder bremen progress through the tournament to win the 1993 german cup . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : horst hrubesch was a key player for hamburg in 1982 .
bremen 5-0 hamburg , may 29 , 1993 bremen also secured the bundesliga crown with one game to spare in 1993 thanks to this overwhelming victory .
andreas herzog and wynton rufer both scored as the home crowd celebrated their club 's third title .
bremen ended the season one point ahead of bayern munich , leaving hamburg to finish 11th .
legendary bremen coach otto rehhagel described the victory as a " milestone " for the club . hamburg 5-0 bremen , may 15 , 1982 one of hamburg 's two highest-ever wins against their northern derby rivals came in the closing stages of the 1981/1982 campaign .
a total of 53,400 fans watched horst hrubesch - now germany 's under-21 coach - score a hat-trick as hamburg demolished bremen 's defense to win the bundesliga title at the expense of second-placed fc cologne . author : sam edmonds editor : darren mara send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de hamburg move closer to uefa final after bremen defeat sv hamburg took the advantage on thursday after defeating bremen 1-0 in the first leg of their uefa cup semi-final matches .
hamburg 's coach says their position is good for the second leg , but bremen is not giving up .
-lrb- 01.05.2009 -rrb- german , ukrainian clubs fight for uefa cup honors domestic pride will be at stake in europe when ukrainian and german clubs battle against each other in the semi-finals of the uefa cup in first-leg matches on thursday .
-lrb- 30.04.2009 -rrb- werder bremen beat hamburg in cup semi-final bremen beat hamburg on penalties to reach the cup final .
bremen 's goalie tim wiese was the man of the game as he saved three penalties .
his side will now face leverkusen in the final .
-lrb- 23.04.2009 -rrb- 9799 dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit tagesthema we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-radio listen to the latest from german soccer on dw-radio .
sports report anti-racism girls wanted : scouting for germany 's next generation of female football talent listen to the audio art women 's football - a source of inspiration watch the video video women 's soccer is more popular than ever in the us .
watch the video final standings click here for the final 2010-11 bundesliga table . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
bremen book a place in the uefa cup final , clinching a win against rivals hamburg -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 10.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de soccer -pipe- 07.05.2009 bremen book a place in the uefa cup final , clinching a win against rivals hamburg großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bremen 's diego scores but will miss the uefa cup final .
werder bremen came from a goal down to win 3-2 away to sv hamburg thursday to book a uefa cup final date in istanbul against ukrainian side shakhtar donetsk . diego , claudio pizarro and frank baumann were the goal-scoring heroes for bremen to advance to their first ever european final on may 20 in istanbul .
bremen went into the clash trailing 1-0 from the first leg but conceded a goal to hosts hamburg in the 13th minute when joris mathijsen powered his way upfield from defence before finding ivica olic who chipped the ball over bremen 's goalkeepr tim wiese .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : hamburgs 's ivica olic , left , scores his side 's first goal past bremen 's goalkeeper tim wiese olic could have doubled hamburg 's lead on 27 minutes but his effort from close range was saved .
within two minutes bremen were level when diego and pizarro combined well before the brazilian slotted the ball past frank rost .
diego nearly netted a second on 37 minutes but his shot from 25 metres hit the crossbar .
however , the 24-year-old was booked two minutes before the break for an off-the-ball row with alex silva , who also saw yellow , meaning the brazilian will miss the final .
" it was a difficult situation i did n't do anything , not to go to the final is very bad for me , " said diego .
peruvian striker pizarro scored on 66 minutes , beating rost at the near post although the hamburg goalkeeper really should have done better .
baumann looked to have put the game beyond hamburg with bremen 's third seven minutes from time and although olic popped up to score his second of the game to make it 3-2 on the night to set up a tense finale , bremen held on to make it to their first uefa cup final .
" we played well , it was tough to come from two goals down , " said pizarro .
" diego played a great match its a pity he 's not in the final but thats football . "
bremen are the first german side to reach a uefa cup final since borussia dortmund reached the final in 2002 only to lose against feyenoord rotterdam .
ruhr valley side schalke 04 were the last german winners back in 1997 .
same procedure ?
thursday 's semi-final fixture is the third in a series of four matches to be played between the two northern german clubs within a 19-day period . the first game went bremen 's way when goalkeeper tim wiese made three saves in a penalty shootout to knock hamburg out of the german cup semi-final on april 22 . the second saw hamburg gain revenge eight days later with its 0-1 victory in bremen .
the fourth and final derby match is a bundesliga fixture scheduled for sunday , may 10 . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : thomas schaaf has coached werder bremen for a decade intense rivalry as the two biggest cities in northern germany , hamburg and bremen have a long history of competing with each other as hanseatic trading powers , regional centers of industry and culture , and sporting contenders . " what 's very special is that they more or less share the same backyard from which they can get their soccer fans , " deutsche welle 's sports head wolfgang van kann says .
" so it 's always a question of who is better , and where the fans will go . " from a historical perspective , it 's difficult to say which club has been more successful .
according to the so-called " eternal table , " which records the performances of all bundesliga clubs since the competition was founded in 1963 , werder bremen and hamburg are ranked second and third respectively .
at the time of writing , they were separated by just six points . " clearly hamburg has the longer tradition and the longer streak of success , " van kann says .
" bremen has only come up in the last one or two decades , but with huge success . " while hamburg has n't won a title since it lifted the german cup in 1987 , bremen won the german double in 2004 and has qualified for the champions league for the past five seasons . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : fans were disgusted when hooligans killed a 16-year-old in 1982 " the clubs have always been very different , " van kann explains .
" for example you can see that hamburg has had several coaches within the past few years , while bremen has only had one coach for the last 10 years . " fan violence one thing the two clubs do have in common is a dedicated fan base .
hamburg boasts almost 55,000 members , while bremen has more than 30,000 .
but violence involving so-called " ultras " and militant fan groups has driven a wedge between the two cities on more than one occasion . the worst incident took place in october 1982 , when hamburg hosted bremen for a second-round german cup match .
despite a large police presence around the main train station and the stadium , hooligans belonging to a group known as the " hamburg lions " attacked visitors with beer cans , stones and fireworks . a 16-year-old bremen fan named adrian maleika was killed after he was hit on the head by a stone .
while most of germany was shocked , a number of hard-line fans were quoted in the press as being indifferent or hungry for revenge . tensions between supporters of the rival clubs threatened to boil over until representatives of more than 200 fan groups met in the town of scheessel , half-way between bremen and hamburg , and signed a " peace deal " banning revenge attacks . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : werder bremen topped the bundesliga in 1993 and 2004 while provocative lyrics sung in stadiums during northern derbies occasionally refer to the incident , most fans have put the conflict behind them , and prefer to remember - or forget - these four landmark matches from the past 30 years : bremen 6-0 hamburg , may 1 , 2004 the most one-sided result between the two clubs was in bremen as the 2003-04 bundesliga season drew to an end .
some 42,000 spectators watched hamburg striker sergej barbarez score an own-goal and trigger an avalanche of bremen goals .
one match later , werder bremen won the championship with a spectacular 3-1 victory over bayern munich . bremen 4-2 hamburg , october 27 , 1993 just over 34,000 fans turned out to watch the fourth round german cup fixture in bremen 's weserstadion .
austrian midfielder andreas herzog gave bremen an early lead , but hamburg managed to score twice after the break before bernd hobsch leveled the scores in the 74th minute .
when hamburg 's andreas sassen was shown a red card , bremen 's frank neubarth and wynton rufer capitalized by both finding the net in the final four minutes .
the convincing victory saw werder bremen progress through the tournament to win the 1993 german cup . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : horst hrubesch was a key player for hamburg in 1982 .
bremen 5-0 hamburg , may 29 , 1993 bremen also secured the bundesliga crown with one game to spare in 1993 thanks to this overwhelming victory .
andreas herzog and wynton rufer both scored as the home crowd celebrated their club 's third title .
bremen ended the season one point ahead of bayern munich , leaving hamburg to finish 11th .
legendary bremen coach otto rehhagel described the victory as a " milestone " for the club . hamburg 5-0 bremen , may 15 , 1982 one of hamburg 's two highest-ever wins against their northern derby rivals came in the closing stages of the 1981/1982 campaign .
a total of 53,400 fans watched horst hrubesch - now germany 's under-21 coach - score a hat-trick as hamburg demolished bremen 's defense to win the bundesliga title at the expense of second-placed fc cologne . author : sam edmonds editor : darren mara send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de hamburg move closer to uefa final after bremen defeat sv hamburg took the advantage on thursday after defeating bremen 1-0 in the first leg of their uefa cup semi-final matches .
hamburg 's coach says their position is good for the second leg , but bremen is not giving up .
-lrb- 01.05.2009 -rrb- german , ukrainian clubs fight for uefa cup honors domestic pride will be at stake in europe when ukrainian and german clubs battle against each other in the semi-finals of the uefa cup in first-leg matches on thursday .
-lrb- 30.04.2009 -rrb- werder bremen beat hamburg in cup semi-final bremen beat hamburg on penalties to reach the cup final .
bremen 's goalie tim wiese was the man of the game as he saved three penalties .
his side will now face leverkusen in the final .
-lrb- 23.04.2009 -rrb- 9799 dw-tv europe live people and politics - the political magazine we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio listen to the latest from german soccer on dw-radio .
sports report © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
bremen book a place in the uefa cup final , clinching a win against rivals hamburg -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 21.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de soccer -pipe- 07.05.2009 bremen book a place in the uefa cup final , clinching a win against rivals hamburg großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bremen 's diego scores but will miss the uefa cup final .
werder bremen came from a goal down to win 3-2 away to sv hamburg thursday to book a uefa cup final date in istanbul against ukrainian side shakhtar donetsk . diego , claudio pizarro and frank baumann were the goal-scoring heroes for bremen to advance to their first ever european final on may 20 in istanbul .
bremen went into the clash trailing 1-0 from the first leg but conceded a goal to hosts hamburg in the 13th minute when joris mathijsen powered his way upfield from defence before finding ivica olic who chipped the ball over bremen 's goalkeepr tim wiese .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : hamburgs 's ivica olic , left , scores his side 's first goal past bremen 's goalkeeper tim wiese olic could have doubled hamburg 's lead on 27 minutes but his effort from close range was saved .
within two minutes bremen were level when diego and pizarro combined well before the brazilian slotted the ball past frank rost .
diego nearly netted a second on 37 minutes but his shot from 25 metres hit the crossbar .
however , the 24-year-old was booked two minutes before the break for an off-the-ball row with alex silva , who also saw yellow , meaning the brazilian will miss the final .
" it was a difficult situation i did n't do anything , not to go to the final is very bad for me , " said diego .
peruvian striker pizarro scored on 66 minutes , beating rost at the near post although the hamburg goalkeeper really should have done better .
baumann looked to have put the game beyond hamburg with bremen 's third seven minutes from time and although olic popped up to score his second of the game to make it 3-2 on the night to set up a tense finale , bremen held on to make it to their first uefa cup final .
" we played well , it was tough to come from two goals down , " said pizarro .
" diego played a great match its a pity he 's not in the final but thats football . "
bremen are the first german side to reach a uefa cup final since borussia dortmund reached the final in 2002 only to lose against feyenoord rotterdam .
ruhr valley side schalke 04 were the last german winners back in 1997 .
same procedure ?
thursday 's semi-final fixture is the third in a series of four matches to be played between the two northern german clubs within a 19-day period . the first game went bremen 's way when goalkeeper tim wiese made three saves in a penalty shootout to knock hamburg out of the german cup semi-final on april 22 . the second saw hamburg gain revenge eight days later with its 0-1 victory in bremen .
the fourth and final derby match is a bundesliga fixture scheduled for sunday , may 10 . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : thomas schaaf has coached werder bremen for a decade intense rivalry as the two biggest cities in northern germany , hamburg and bremen have a long history of competing with each other as hanseatic trading powers , regional centers of industry and culture , and sporting contenders . " what 's very special is that they more or less share the same backyard from which they can get their soccer fans , " deutsche welle 's sports head wolfgang van kann says .
" so it 's always a question of who is better , and where the fans will go . " from a historical perspective , it 's difficult to say which club has been more successful .
according to the so-called " eternal table , " which records the performances of all bundesliga clubs since the competition was founded in 1963 , werder bremen and hamburg are ranked second and third respectively .
at the time of writing , they were separated by just six points . " clearly hamburg has the longer tradition and the longer streak of success , " van kann says .
" bremen has only come up in the last one or two decades , but with huge success . " while hamburg has n't won a title since it lifted the german cup in 1987 , bremen won the german double in 2004 and has qualified for the champions league for the past five seasons . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : fans were disgusted when hooligans killed a 16-year-old in 1982 " the clubs have always been very different , " van kann explains .
" for example you can see that hamburg has had several coaches within the past few years , while bremen has only had one coach for the last 10 years . " fan violence one thing the two clubs do have in common is a dedicated fan base .
hamburg boasts almost 55,000 members , while bremen has more than 30,000 .
but violence involving so-called " ultras " and militant fan groups has driven a wedge between the two cities on more than one occasion . the worst incident took place in october 1982 , when hamburg hosted bremen for a second-round german cup match .
despite a large police presence around the main train station and the stadium , hooligans belonging to a group known as the " hamburg lions " attacked visitors with beer cans , stones and fireworks . a 16-year-old bremen fan named adrian maleika was killed after he was hit on the head by a stone .
while most of germany was shocked , a number of hard-line fans were quoted in the press as being indifferent or hungry for revenge . tensions between supporters of the rival clubs threatened to boil over until representatives of more than 200 fan groups met in the town of scheessel , half-way between bremen and hamburg , and signed a " peace deal " banning revenge attacks . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : werder bremen topped the bundesliga in 1993 and 2004 while provocative lyrics sung in stadiums during northern derbies occasionally refer to the incident , most fans have put the conflict behind them , and prefer to remember - or forget - these four landmark matches from the past 30 years : bremen 6-0 hamburg , may 1 , 2004 the most one-sided result between the two clubs was in bremen as the 2003-04 bundesliga season drew to an end .
some 42,000 spectators watched hamburg striker sergej barbarez score an own-goal and trigger an avalanche of bremen goals .
one match later , werder bremen won the championship with a spectacular 3-1 victory over bayern munich . bremen 4-2 hamburg , october 27 , 1993 just over 34,000 fans turned out to watch the fourth round german cup fixture in bremen 's weserstadion .
austrian midfielder andreas herzog gave bremen an early lead , but hamburg managed to score twice after the break before bernd hobsch leveled the scores in the 74th minute .
when hamburg 's andreas sassen was shown a red card , bremen 's frank neubarth and wynton rufer capitalized by both finding the net in the final four minutes .
the convincing victory saw werder bremen progress through the tournament to win the 1993 german cup . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : horst hrubesch was a key player for hamburg in 1982 .
bremen 5-0 hamburg , may 29 , 1993 bremen also secured the bundesliga crown with one game to spare in 1993 thanks to this overwhelming victory .
andreas herzog and wynton rufer both scored as the home crowd celebrated their club 's third title .
bremen ended the season one point ahead of bayern munich , leaving hamburg to finish 11th .
legendary bremen coach otto rehhagel described the victory as a " milestone " for the club . hamburg 5-0 bremen , may 15 , 1982 one of hamburg 's two highest-ever wins against their northern derby rivals came in the closing stages of the 1981/1982 campaign .
a total of 53,400 fans watched horst hrubesch - now germany 's under-21 coach - score a hat-trick as hamburg demolished bremen 's defense to win the bundesliga title at the expense of second-placed fc cologne . author : sam edmonds editor : darren mara send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de hamburg move closer to uefa final after bremen defeat sv hamburg took the advantage on thursday after defeating bremen 1-0 in the first leg of their uefa cup semi-final matches .
hamburg 's coach says their position is good for the second leg , but bremen is not giving up .
-lrb- 01.05.2009 -rrb- german , ukrainian clubs fight for uefa cup honors domestic pride will be at stake in europe when ukrainian and german clubs battle against each other in the semi-finals of the uefa cup in first-leg matches on thursday .
-lrb- 30.04.2009 -rrb- werder bremen beat hamburg in cup semi-final bremen beat hamburg on penalties to reach the cup final .
bremen 's goalie tim wiese was the man of the game as he saved three penalties .
his side will now face leverkusen in the final .
-lrb- 23.04.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results at a glance .
dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia moenchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
bremen book a place in the uefa cup final , clinching a win against rivals hamburg -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de soccer -pipe- 07.05.2009 bremen book a place in the uefa cup final , clinching a win against rivals hamburg großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bremen 's diego scores but will miss the uefa cup final .
werder bremen came from a goal down to win 3-2 away to sv hamburg thursday to book a uefa cup final date in istanbul against ukrainian side shakhtar donetsk . diego , claudio pizarro and frank baumann were the goal-scoring heroes for bremen to advance to their first ever european final on may 20 in istanbul .
bremen went into the clash trailing 1-0 from the first leg but conceded a goal to hosts hamburg in the 13th minute when joris mathijsen powered his way upfield from defence before finding ivica olic who chipped the ball over bremen 's goalkeepr tim wiese .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : hamburgs 's ivica olic , left , scores his side 's first goal past bremen 's goalkeeper tim wiese olic could have doubled hamburg 's lead on 27 minutes but his effort from close range was saved .
within two minutes bremen were level when diego and pizarro combined well before the brazilian slotted the ball past frank rost .
diego nearly netted a second on 37 minutes but his shot from 25 metres hit the crossbar .
however , the 24-year-old was booked two minutes before the break for an off-the-ball row with alex silva , who also saw yellow , meaning the brazilian will miss the final .
" it was a difficult situation i did n't do anything , not to go to the final is very bad for me , " said diego .
peruvian striker pizarro scored on 66 minutes , beating rost at the near post although the hamburg goalkeeper really should have done better .
baumann looked to have put the game beyond hamburg with bremen 's third seven minutes from time and although olic popped up to score his second of the game to make it 3-2 on the night to set up a tense finale , bremen held on to make it to their first uefa cup final .
" we played well , it was tough to come from two goals down , " said pizarro .
" diego played a great match its a pity he 's not in the final but thats football . "
bremen are the first german side to reach a uefa cup final since borussia dortmund reached the final in 2002 only to lose against feyenoord rotterdam .
ruhr valley side schalke 04 were the last german winners back in 1997 .
same procedure ?
thursday 's semi-final fixture is the third in a series of four matches to be played between the two northern german clubs within a 19-day period . the first game went bremen 's way when goalkeeper tim wiese made three saves in a penalty shootout to knock hamburg out of the german cup semi-final on april 22 . the second saw hamburg gain revenge eight days later with its 0-1 victory in bremen .
the fourth and final derby match is a bundesliga fixture scheduled for sunday , may 10 . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : thomas schaaf has coached werder bremen for a decade intense rivalry as the two biggest cities in northern germany , hamburg and bremen have a long history of competing with each other as hanseatic trading powers , regional centers of industry and culture , and sporting contenders . " what 's very special is that they more or less share the same backyard from which they can get their soccer fans , " deutsche welle 's sports head wolfgang van kann says .
" so it 's always a question of who is better , and where the fans will go . " from a historical perspective , it 's difficult to say which club has been more successful .
according to the so-called " eternal table , " which records the performances of all bundesliga clubs since the competition was founded in 1963 , werder bremen and hamburg are ranked second and third respectively .
at the time of writing , they were separated by just six points . " clearly hamburg has the longer tradition and the longer streak of success , " van kann says .
" bremen has only come up in the last one or two decades , but with huge success . " while hamburg has n't won a title since it lifted the german cup in 1987 , bremen won the german double in 2004 and has qualified for the champions league for the past five seasons . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : fans were disgusted when hooligans killed a 16-year-old in 1982 " the clubs have always been very different , " van kann explains .
" for example you can see that hamburg has had several coaches within the past few years , while bremen has only had one coach for the last 10 years . " fan violence one thing the two clubs do have in common is a dedicated fan base .
hamburg boasts almost 55,000 members , while bremen has more than 30,000 .
but violence involving so-called " ultras " and militant fan groups has driven a wedge between the two cities on more than one occasion . the worst incident took place in october 1982 , when hamburg hosted bremen for a second-round german cup match .
despite a large police presence around the main train station and the stadium , hooligans belonging to a group known as the " hamburg lions " attacked visitors with beer cans , stones and fireworks . a 16-year-old bremen fan named adrian maleika was killed after he was hit on the head by a stone .
while most of germany was shocked , a number of hard-line fans were quoted in the press as being indifferent or hungry for revenge . tensions between supporters of the rival clubs threatened to boil over until representatives of more than 200 fan groups met in the town of scheessel , half-way between bremen and hamburg , and signed a " peace deal " banning revenge attacks . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : werder bremen topped the bundesliga in 1993 and 2004 while provocative lyrics sung in stadiums during northern derbies occasionally refer to the incident , most fans have put the conflict behind them , and prefer to remember - or forget - these four landmark matches from the past 30 years : bremen 6-0 hamburg , may 1 , 2004 the most one-sided result between the two clubs was in bremen as the 2003-04 bundesliga season drew to an end .
some 42,000 spectators watched hamburg striker sergej barbarez score an own-goal and trigger an avalanche of bremen goals .
one match later , werder bremen won the championship with a spectacular 3-1 victory over bayern munich . bremen 4-2 hamburg , october 27 , 1993 just over 34,000 fans turned out to watch the fourth round german cup fixture in bremen 's weserstadion .
austrian midfielder andreas herzog gave bremen an early lead , but hamburg managed to score twice after the break before bernd hobsch leveled the scores in the 74th minute .
when hamburg 's andreas sassen was shown a red card , bremen 's frank neubarth and wynton rufer capitalized by both finding the net in the final four minutes .
the convincing victory saw werder bremen progress through the tournament to win the 1993 german cup . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : horst hrubesch was a key player for hamburg in 1982 .
bremen 5-0 hamburg , may 29 , 1993 bremen also secured the bundesliga crown with one game to spare in 1993 thanks to this overwhelming victory .
andreas herzog and wynton rufer both scored as the home crowd celebrated their club 's third title .
bremen ended the season one point ahead of bayern munich , leaving hamburg to finish 11th .
legendary bremen coach otto rehhagel described the victory as a " milestone " for the club . hamburg 5-0 bremen , may 15 , 1982 one of hamburg 's two highest-ever wins against their northern derby rivals came in the closing stages of the 1981/1982 campaign .
a total of 53,400 fans watched horst hrubesch - now germany 's under-21 coach - score a hat-trick as hamburg demolished bremen 's defense to win the bundesliga title at the expense of second-placed fc cologne . author : sam edmonds editor : darren mara send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de hamburg move closer to uefa final after bremen defeat sv hamburg took the advantage on thursday after defeating bremen 1-0 in the first leg of their uefa cup semi-final matches .
hamburg 's coach says their position is good for the second leg , but bremen is not giving up .
-lrb- 01.05.2009 -rrb- german , ukrainian clubs fight for uefa cup honors domestic pride will be at stake in europe when ukrainian and german clubs battle against each other in the semi-finals of the uefa cup in first-leg matches on thursday .
-lrb- 30.04.2009 -rrb- werder bremen beat hamburg in cup semi-final bremen beat hamburg on penalties to reach the cup final .
bremen 's goalie tim wiese was the man of the game as he saved three penalties .
his side will now face leverkusen in the final .
-lrb- 23.04.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live pulse listen live dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report bundesliga predictions match day nine picks the dw sports team picks the scores in the bundesliga ... for the ninth time .
scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results at a glance .
dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia moenchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
bremen book a place in the uefa cup final , clinching a win against rivals hamburg -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de soccer -pipe- 07.05.2009 bremen book a place in the uefa cup final , clinching a win against rivals hamburg großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bremen 's diego scores but will miss the uefa cup final .
werder bremen came from a goal down to win 3-2 away to sv hamburg thursday to book a uefa cup final date in istanbul against ukrainian side shakhtar donetsk . diego , claudio pizarro and frank baumann were the goal-scoring heroes for bremen to advance to their first ever european final on may 20 in istanbul .
bremen went into the clash trailing 1-0 from the first leg but conceded a goal to hosts hamburg in the 13th minute when joris mathijsen powered his way upfield from defence before finding ivica olic who chipped the ball over bremen 's goalkeepr tim wiese .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : hamburgs 's ivica olic , left , scores his side 's first goal past bremen 's goalkeeper tim wiese olic could have doubled hamburg 's lead on 27 minutes but his effort from close range was saved .
within two minutes bremen were level when diego and pizarro combined well before the brazilian slotted the ball past frank rost .
diego nearly netted a second on 37 minutes but his shot from 25 metres hit the crossbar .
however , the 24-year-old was booked two minutes before the break for an off-the-ball row with alex silva , who also saw yellow , meaning the brazilian will miss the final .
" it was a difficult situation i did n't do anything , not to go to the final is very bad for me , " said diego .
peruvian striker pizarro scored on 66 minutes , beating rost at the near post although the hamburg goalkeeper really should have done better .
baumann looked to have put the game beyond hamburg with bremen 's third seven minutes from time and although olic popped up to score his second of the game to make it 3-2 on the night to set up a tense finale , bremen held on to make it to their first uefa cup final .
" we played well , it was tough to come from two goals down , " said pizarro .
" diego played a great match its a pity he 's not in the final but thats football . "
bremen are the first german side to reach a uefa cup final since borussia dortmund reached the final in 2002 only to lose against feyenoord rotterdam .
ruhr valley side schalke 04 were the last german winners back in 1997 .
same procedure ?
thursday 's semi-final fixture is the third in a series of four matches to be played between the two northern german clubs within a 19-day period . the first game went bremen 's way when goalkeeper tim wiese made three saves in a penalty shootout to knock hamburg out of the german cup semi-final on april 22 . the second saw hamburg gain revenge eight days later with its 0-1 victory in bremen .
the fourth and final derby match is a bundesliga fixture scheduled for sunday , may 10 . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : thomas schaaf has coached werder bremen for a decade intense rivalry as the two biggest cities in northern germany , hamburg and bremen have a long history of competing with each other as hanseatic trading powers , regional centers of industry and culture , and sporting contenders . " what 's very special is that they more or less share the same backyard from which they can get their soccer fans , " deutsche welle 's sports head wolfgang van kann says .
" so it 's always a question of who is better , and where the fans will go . " from a historical perspective , it 's difficult to say which club has been more successful .
according to the so-called " eternal table , " which records the performances of all bundesliga clubs since the competition was founded in 1963 , werder bremen and hamburg are ranked second and third respectively .
at the time of writing , they were separated by just six points . " clearly hamburg has the longer tradition and the longer streak of success , " van kann says .
" bremen has only come up in the last one or two decades , but with huge success . " while hamburg has n't won a title since it lifted the german cup in 1987 , bremen won the german double in 2004 and has qualified for the champions league for the past five seasons . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : fans were disgusted when hooligans killed a 16-year-old in 1982 " the clubs have always been very different , " van kann explains .
" for example you can see that hamburg has had several coaches within the past few years , while bremen has only had one coach for the last 10 years . " fan violence one thing the two clubs do have in common is a dedicated fan base .
hamburg boasts almost 55,000 members , while bremen has more than 30,000 .
but violence involving so-called " ultras " and militant fan groups has driven a wedge between the two cities on more than one occasion . the worst incident took place in october 1982 , when hamburg hosted bremen for a second-round german cup match .
despite a large police presence around the main train station and the stadium , hooligans belonging to a group known as the " hamburg lions " attacked visitors with beer cans , stones and fireworks . a 16-year-old bremen fan named adrian maleika was killed after he was hit on the head by a stone .
while most of germany was shocked , a number of hard-line fans were quoted in the press as being indifferent or hungry for revenge . tensions between supporters of the rival clubs threatened to boil over until representatives of more than 200 fan groups met in the town of scheessel , half-way between bremen and hamburg , and signed a " peace deal " banning revenge attacks . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : werder bremen topped the bundesliga in 1993 and 2004 while provocative lyrics sung in stadiums during northern derbies occasionally refer to the incident , most fans have put the conflict behind them , and prefer to remember - or forget - these four landmark matches from the past 30 years : bremen 6-0 hamburg , may 1 , 2004 the most one-sided result between the two clubs was in bremen as the 2003-04 bundesliga season drew to an end .
some 42,000 spectators watched hamburg striker sergej barbarez score an own-goal and trigger an avalanche of bremen goals .
one match later , werder bremen won the championship with a spectacular 3-1 victory over bayern munich . bremen 4-2 hamburg , october 27 , 1993 just over 34,000 fans turned out to watch the fourth round german cup fixture in bremen 's weserstadion .
austrian midfielder andreas herzog gave bremen an early lead , but hamburg managed to score twice after the break before bernd hobsch leveled the scores in the 74th minute .
when hamburg 's andreas sassen was shown a red card , bremen 's frank neubarth and wynton rufer capitalized by both finding the net in the final four minutes .
the convincing victory saw werder bremen progress through the tournament to win the 1993 german cup . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : horst hrubesch was a key player for hamburg in 1982 .
bremen 5-0 hamburg , may 29 , 1993 bremen also secured the bundesliga crown with one game to spare in 1993 thanks to this overwhelming victory .
andreas herzog and wynton rufer both scored as the home crowd celebrated their club 's third title .
bremen ended the season one point ahead of bayern munich , leaving hamburg to finish 11th .
legendary bremen coach otto rehhagel described the victory as a " milestone " for the club . hamburg 5-0 bremen , may 15 , 1982 one of hamburg 's two highest-ever wins against their northern derby rivals came in the closing stages of the 1981/1982 campaign .
a total of 53,400 fans watched horst hrubesch - now germany 's under-21 coach - score a hat-trick as hamburg demolished bremen 's defense to win the bundesliga title at the expense of second-placed fc cologne . author : sam edmonds editor : darren mara send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de hamburg move closer to uefa final after bremen defeat sv hamburg took the advantage on thursday after defeating bremen 1-0 in the first leg of their uefa cup semi-final matches .
hamburg 's coach says their position is good for the second leg , but bremen is not giving up .
-lrb- 01.05.2009 -rrb- german , ukrainian clubs fight for uefa cup honors domestic pride will be at stake in europe when ukrainian and german clubs battle against each other in the semi-finals of the uefa cup in first-leg matches on thursday .
-lrb- 30.04.2009 -rrb- werder bremen beat hamburg in cup semi-final bremen beat hamburg on penalties to reach the cup final .
bremen 's goalie tim wiese was the man of the game as he saved three penalties .
his side will now face leverkusen in the final .
-lrb- 23.04.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live bundesliga predictions wakey wakey ! !
dw 's pundits - and the bundesliga - come out of hibernation with the match day 18 predictions .
dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report high scorer freiburg 's papiss demba cisse opens up to dw-tv 's bundesliga kick off ! about his goalscoring ways .
watch the report scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results at a glance .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia moenchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
suspected war criminal loses us court appeal to stop deportation -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 25.09.2010 home news germany europe world from tierra del fuego to tijuana asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de world war ii -pipe- 07.05.2009 suspected war criminal loses us court appeal to stop deportation großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : john demjanjuk appears to be losing legal battle against deportation to germany a us supreme court judge has said he will not block the alleged nazi death camp guard john demjanjuk 's deportation to germany to face a war crimes trial . the 89-year-old demjanjuk claims he is too ill to fly to germany .
he is accused of being a guard at the sobibor extermination camp during world war ii and of being an accessory to the murder of some 29,000 jews .
demjanjuk , who is ukrainian born , denies the charges , saying he was captured by the nazis and then kept as a prisoner of war .
german authorities allege that demjanjuk , then 23 , worked from march-september 1943 as a guard in nazi-occupied poland at the sobibor concentration camp .
prosecutors in munich issued an arrest warrant for him in march .
the us supreme court move was seen as one of the last ways to prevent his being taken to germany .
however , under court rules , his lawyers may still submit applications for a stay to the court 's other eight justices .
the lower court had dismissed arguments by demjanjuk 's lawyer that transporting him to germany would pose an undue risk to his health .
it accepted us government assurances that he would receive sufficient medical care during the trip .
the us justice department said it would continue to work with the german government on demjanjuk 's removal , but a spokeswoman could not provide details about the timing of a possible deportation .
a german tribunal earlier on thursday ruled that the german government is under no duty to oppose demjanjuk 's expulsion from us soil to germany .
following world war ii , demjanjuk lived in germany as a refugee until 1952 when he changed his first name from ivan to john and moved to the united states .
demjanjuk was acquitted in 1993 by the israeli supreme court of charges that he worked at a different death camp , treblinka , saving him from the death sentence of a lower court in israel .
but when he returned to the us , he was stripped of his us citizenship . nrt , mh dpa / reuters / ap send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live people and politics we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live no nukes critics say us president obama 's latest push for a world free of nuclear weapons is unrealistic .
watch the video learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan new web site check out deutsche welle 's new asia page in english .
dw asia online news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's newest media partner latin america take a multimedia journey discover the region and its people © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
suspected war criminal loses us court appeal to stop deportation -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 29.11.2010 home news germany europe world from tierra del fuego to tijuana asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de world war ii -pipe- 07.05.2009 suspected war criminal loses us court appeal to stop deportation großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : john demjanjuk appears to be losing legal battle against deportation to germany a us supreme court judge has said he will not block the alleged nazi death camp guard john demjanjuk 's deportation to germany to face a war crimes trial . the 89-year-old demjanjuk claims he is too ill to fly to germany .
he is accused of being a guard at the sobibor extermination camp during world war ii and of being an accessory to the murder of some 29,000 jews .
demjanjuk , who is ukrainian born , denies the charges , saying he was captured by the nazis and then kept as a prisoner of war .
german authorities allege that demjanjuk , then 23 , worked from march-september 1943 as a guard in nazi-occupied poland at the sobibor concentration camp .
prosecutors in munich issued an arrest warrant for him in march .
the us supreme court move was seen as one of the last ways to prevent his being taken to germany .
however , under court rules , his lawyers may still submit applications for a stay to the court 's other eight justices .
the lower court had dismissed arguments by demjanjuk 's lawyer that transporting him to germany would pose an undue risk to his health .
it accepted us government assurances that he would receive sufficient medical care during the trip .
the us justice department said it would continue to work with the german government on demjanjuk 's removal , but a spokeswoman could not provide details about the timing of a possible deportation .
a german tribunal earlier on thursday ruled that the german government is under no duty to oppose demjanjuk 's expulsion from us soil to germany .
following world war ii , demjanjuk lived in germany as a refugee until 1952 when he changed his first name from ivan to john and moved to the united states .
demjanjuk was acquitted in 1993 by the israeli supreme court of charges that he worked at a different death camp , treblinka , saving him from the death sentence of a lower court in israel .
but when he returned to the us , he was stripped of his us citizenship . nrt , mh dpa / reuters / ap send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live global 3000 we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live music this week traditions of the advent season listen live learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan new web site check out deutsche welle 's new asia page in english .
dw asia online latin america take a multimedia journey discover the region and its people news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's newest media partner © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
georgian opposition clash with police as nato war games begin -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 09.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de georgia -pipe- 07.05.2009 georgian opposition clash with police as nato war games begin großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the nato military exercises that include computer training have flared tensions with georgia 's former soviet master , russia .
riot police in georgia clashed with anti-government officials during a late night rally , attempting to disrupt the kick off of nato 's controversial military exercises . it was the first major outbreak of violence in what 's now been a month of demonstrations against georgia 's president in the capital , tbilisi .
thousands of protestors converged on parliament to demand president mikhail saakashvili 's resignation , as well as the release of three jailed supporters .
georgia 's interior ministry spokesman shota utiashvili said police used truncheons to beat back protesters who were climbing over a fence surrounding the building .
nato exercises reignite georgia-russia tension the month-long nato training activities began on wednesday , and are part of a simulated crisis response operation and peacekeeping exercises .
they will involve at least 1,100 soldiers from 10 nato countries and six of the alliance 's " partner " countries .
the military exercises are being held at a georgian military base formerly used by the russian air force .
the operations have strained ties further between the ex-soviet georgia and its cold war-era rival .
russia fiercely objects to georgia hosting the operation , saying it threatens stability in the region .
earlier in the week , georgia accused russia of backing a brief military mutiny that allegedly included a plot to assassinate the president . cg / rm , reuters / afp / ap send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de nato denies georgia war-games agenda russian anger simmers as a month of partnership for peace -lrb- pfp -rrb- military exercises featuring nato states starts in georgia .
but nato claims that there is no agenda and that moscow was fully informed .
-lrb- 05.05.2009 -rrb- nato expels russian diplomats from brussels amid spying row nato has ordered the expulsion of two diplomats from russia 's nato mission in connection with a spy scandal - a move moscow calls a " provocation . " -lrb- 30.04.2009 -rrb- nato and russia resume formal ties after an eight-month freeze , nato and russia have once again taken up official relations .
but while a dialogue has resumed , disagreement between the two sides still exists .
-lrb- 29.04.2009 -rrb- 9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
revolution calling women have played a crucial role in the arab uprisings , using the internet to spread the message .
watch the video security concerns there is a growing connection between security and natural resources .
listen to the interview podcast series life without the arts would be a lot less colorful , but guides like lukas help experience the arts .
download the podcast international conference media representatives around the world gather in bonn to discuss human rights .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
iceland 's new government plans a bid for eu membership -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 16.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de european union -pipe- 07.05.2009 iceland 's new government plans a bid for eu membership großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : iceland wants to join the 27-member bloc iceland is preparing a bid for entry into the european union , just two weeks after the country 's new left-wing government was elected into power . the country ’ s prime minister johanna sigurdardottir announced on state television that she would present a parliamentary bill to authorize the start of membership talks with the european union .
" there will be a government resolution tabled -lrb- on eu talks -rrb- , " prime minister johanna sigurdardottir said .
she did not give a timeframe for when the bill would be put forward , but it ’ s expected that the draft could be introduced as early as next week when parliament convenes . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : johanna sigurdardottir says that eu membership is vital for iceland the move is a u-turn for the small northern atlantic island and it ’ s a development which would have been unthinkable only one year ago .
but then the financial crisis struck and the small country was turned upside down .
on the brink of bankruptcy long before the recession arrived in europe and the us , iceland in the summer of 2008 was already in serious trouble .
late last year the country made headlines as it veered toward bankruptcy .
before the sudden downturn , iceland had been thriving , it ’ s people enjoying a living standard among the highest in the world .
the country ’ s banks epitomized the global credit boom and the capital reykjavik became a hub of international finance .
banks expanded overseas and enjoyed exceptional growth .
on the eve of the credit crunch , iceland ’ s banks held foreign assets worth around ten times the country ’ s gdp .
in 2007 , gdp amounted to around $ 11 billion .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : iceland 's kaupthing bank is now run by the governemt iceland was therefore extremely vulnerable to any disruptions on the international financial markets and when the crisis eventually hit , the country went into a tailspin .
the icelandic crown virtually ceased trading and strict capital control had to be introduced to sustain even the import of vital goods such as food and medicine .
the country 's top banks were all nationalized and iceland needed a $ 10 billion rescue package from the international monetary fund to stay afloat .
painful reforms are underway but unemployment is still on the rise and the economic outlook remains gloomy .
public pressure and growing support for eu membership it was not long until the trouble on the balance sheets translated onto the streets .
in a wave of unrest , citizens expressed their anger and frustration at the government 's handling of affairs .
the country was then run by a coalition headed by the center-right independence party which had dominated icelandic politics for decades .
but after months of increasingly violent protests , the government collapsed early this year .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : popular protests brought down the old government in january 2009 new elections in april saw the social democrats emerge as the strongest party and their leader johanna sigurdardottir became the country 's new prime minister .
the 66-year old left little doubt that she wanted to steer her country closer toward the eu .
" it 's the only option we have to safeguard economic stability in the country , " she said after the elections .
the social democrats ' junior coalition partner , the left-greens , had previously opposed a move toward the european union over fears that reykjavik would have to surrender some of its independence to brussels .
however , many of iceland 's 320,000 inhabitants support the idea of joining the eu and ultimately adopting the euro currency .
a snap opinion poll for state television on wednesday showed that 61.2 percent were in favor of eu talks and only 29.6 percent against it . cg / ai , reuters / dpa send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de albania submits bid for european union membership albania has announced it will apply for membership to the 27-member european union .
but european leaders warn the country has a long road ahead of it before it 's ready to join the bloc .
-lrb- 28.04.2009 -rrb- iceland 's interim leftist government wins resounding election victory iceland 's interim leftist government won a resounding victory in this weekend 's general election as voters punished the conservatives they blame for the country 's economic meltdown seven months ago .
-lrb- 26.04.2009 -rrb- 9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live kultur.21 - das kulturmagazin we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live in-box listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
austria there is no mention of women in the austrian national anthem , but that is about to change .
listen to the audio education british parents are responding to government education cuts by setting up their own schools .
watch the video urban exploration ruins of buildings in belgium are eyesores for some , but gateways to urban exploration for others .
watch the video inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
the rhino mafia where to serve ?
soliders with dual citizenship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german industrial orders make surprise jump -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 01.12.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de business -pipe- 07.05.2009 german industrial orders make surprise jump großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : daimler truck factory in woerth - demand for german manufactured goods is up german industrial orders in march showed their first rise for six months , on the back of an increase in orders from abroad . preliminary government figures show that german industrial orders grew an unexpected 3.3 percent in march , driven by an increase in demand from abroad .
the rise - economists had expected a moderate fall for the world 's top exporter - is the first piece of hard data to back up the government 's prediction that the economy is set to grow slightly in 2010 .
the german economy is expected to experience negative growth of around six percent this year .
germany 's economics ministry said the seasonally adjusted rise did not even begin to make up for recent months , with orders for goods falling by 14.5 percent in the first quarter .
the ministry said , though , that the latest numbers showed the trend had changed .
the march increase compared with a 3.1 percent drop in february ; and was largely due to a 5.6 percent increase in orders from abroad .
domestic orders also grew by just over one percent .
the month-on-month climb in march was stronger than expected and indicated that europe 's biggest economy may already be on the rebound from the worst effects of the global recession .
however , the european commission slashed its economic projections on monday , saying europe 's economy would shrink by four per cent this year .
that 's double the figure that it predicted at the start of the year . ch / pfd , rtr / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german business confidence falls ; economists say turnaround near business confidence in europe 's largest economy has reached an all time low , but according to some economists , things could level out and even rebound in the coming months .
-lrb- 26.03.2009 -rrb- europe to lose 3.5 million jobs in 2009 , study says a new study by the eu commission says that jobless rolls in the european union will swell by a further 3.5 million this year as the global economic slowdown batters labor markets across europe .
-lrb- 18.02.2009 -rrb- airbus warns of " horrible " year ahead european aircraft manufacturing giant airbus expects a dismal year with orders plummeting as the global economic crisis hits the aviation industry .
-lrb- 15.01.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
travel passau is called the three river city , but it is just as famous for its baroque splendor .
passau - baroque facades and vibrant arts watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
doubts remain over medvedev 's power and policy after first year in office -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 07.10.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de russia -pipe- 07.05.2009 doubts remain over medvedev 's power and policy after first year in office großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : medvedev has had a busy first 12 months in power russian president dmitry medvedev marks the one-year anniversary of his coming to power on may 7 .
twelve months on , questions and doubts still remain over his legitimacy and his policies . global opinion was divided when dmitry medvedev became russian president on may 7 last year .
some saw the new leader as a puppet of vladimir putin , his predecessor and the man who medvedev had served loyally throughout his two terms in office .
others saw the incoming president as a man who could drive russia down a more liberal and democratic road , and reverse decades of state oppression .
one year on – a year during which medvedev has waged his first war and has been thrust into the forefront of the worst global economic crisis for over 80 years – questions and doubts still remain over whether medvedev is really the man leading russia and if he is , whether he is the right man to reform his nation .
so to what extent has medvedev been successful in attempting to answer those questions leveled against him ?
" from medvedev 's point of view , it 's probably been quite a successful year , " sam greene , the deputy director for operations at the carnegie endowment for international peace in moscow , told deutsche welle .
" this dual system of government which was put together – with medvedev as president and putin as prime minister – has not been without its problems but it 's worked relatively well .
it 's kept the ruling elite relatively cohesive and both medvedev and putin have remained popular politically and are seen as relatively legitimate both at home and internationally .
so it has been a success story for the experiment – which is what this presidency with putin as prime minister is ; a huge political experiment .
" but from a policy perspective , in terms of the reforms that medvedev talked about prior to becoming president ; strengthening the rule of law , diversifying the economy – there really have n't been any policy successes , " he added .
" his rhetoric has been very good .
he speaks very ably on the rule of law , on democracy , on economic liberalism but there was a lot of good rhetoric from putin on these issues for eight years and we did n't see any progress in that direction from him either . "
criticism stems from lack of reform progress much of the analysis of medvedev 's first year in power focuses on these promised reforms and the progress – or lack thereof – that russia has made in the spheres of democracy , human rights and press freedom .
according to professor margot light , a russia expert at the center for the study of global governance at the london school of economics , medvedev has fallen short of the optimists ' expectations .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : medvedev was initially against khodorkovsky 's second trial " there have been many words but very few deeds , " she said .
" medvedev came to power with everyone saying that he was far more liberal than putin .
in fact there has been very little sign of this .
it 's only been in the last couple of weeks that he 's started to talk the liberal talk , by giving an interview to an opposition newspaper , for example .
but apart from that there have been very little progress .
there has been the second trial of -lrb- jailed russian oil oligarch mikhail -rrb- khodorkovsky , even though medvedev himself seemed to be against it ; the electronic media is no freer than it was before he came to power and the non-governmental organizations are still having a tough time so there a very few signs that he has made much progress on the democratization front . "
meanwhile , amnesty international declared on the president 's first anniversary that little had been done to improve human rights in russia since he came to power .
in a statement released on thursday , amnesty said that in some areas the situation has deteriorated despite initial improvements , specifically in relation to attacks against lawyers , journalists and opposition activists which it said were on the rise .
sam greene agrees .
" the situation with the press has n't got any better , in fact in some cases it has actually gotten worse , " he said .
" we 've seen more violence against the press .
this is not state-sponsored violence but it 's part of the current climate and it is part of the responsibility of the state to improve the atmosphere and to make clear that violence against the media will not be tolerated .
" in terms of democracy , there was some talk about reforms to the electoral laws but they 've been slow in coming , " he added .
" we saw municipal elections around the country in which the ruling party continued to dominate , continued to rely on administrative resources and its ability to manipulate the system .
we saw this very clearly in the recent mayoral elections in sochi just like month . "
leadership partners still hugely popular in russia despite these criticisms , neither medvedev nor putin has suffered a serious reversal in popularity within the populace .
in fact , both retain huge support within russia .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : medvedev is gaining the kind of star status putin enjoys " medvedev enjoys very high ratings but the problem has always been that russians appear to prefer order to justice , " light said .
" russians are in favor of tough measures if they believe that those tough measures actually make the country more orderly .
so the president and putin still enjoy enormous support from the population . "
sam greene admits that medvedev and putin may have seen a minor dip in popularity but this is mainly due to the current economic crisis , which has seen unemployment in russia increase and income decrease , and not because of any democratic or liberal failures .
but greene believes that the population does n't hold the leadership partners responsible for its economic woes .
“ the people do n't blame medvedev and putin for these problems nor do they really expect the government or medvedev to be able to do much about them , " he said .
" the people are quite pragmatic , if not cynical , about the russian government 's ability to deal with this crisis . "
while medvedev 's polices have been increasingly scrutinized since he came to power , the partnership agreement struck between the president and his prime minister has also come under close inspection during this first year .
questions remain over who really is the boss bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the partnership has to and will endure , say experts the state of the two men 's relationship has been the subject of intense speculation lately as medvedev has grown into his role and repeated reports of an imminent split between the two have begun to circulate .
but both sam greene and margot light believe the partnership will endure .
" i think there was a very clear arrangement between the two of them ahead of their presidential election under which it was agreed that they were playing on the same team and playing the same role which was to maintain the outward legitimacy and stability of the political system and to mediate conflict between the various groups in the elite , " greene said .
" i would n't expect them to work at cross purposes unless there was a real split between the powerful elite in the country .
there seems to be a broad consensus that this current system needs to continue so i think the relationship between medvedev and putin will remain stable .
the only thing that 's changed is that medvedev has become a bit more comfortable in the position , has begun to understand what he can and can not do and become more confident with his rhetoric and his public persona . "
" there have been lots of attempts to find cracks between them , " light added .
" i think it 's fanciful .
i see no cracks between them .
if medvedev was there just to hold the place for putin until he could run again , the danger was always that medvedev would like the taste of power and decide he wanted to keep it for himself .
i see no sign that this has happened – yet , at any rate .
" however , internationally , medvedev is still seen very much as an instrument of putin 's policy , " light concluded .
" although he fulfills all the roles the constitution affords to the president , i still think there is a very strong feeling internationally that putin is making the decisions and medvedev is simply doing his bidding . "
author : nick amies editor chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de pro-kremlin candidate wins sochi mayoral poll amid claims of fraud amid claims of fraud , anatoly pakhomov , the pro-kremlin candidate in mayoral polls for the russian city of sochi , won a landslide victory in an election seen as a test of the political climate under president medvedev .
-lrb- 27.04.2009 -rrb- critics call putin treason bill means to quash opposition human rights organizations have criticized a new bill that would abolish jury trials for people suspected of treason , hostage-taking , organizing mass disturbances and several other serious crimes .
-lrb- 18.12.2008 -rrb- opinion : russia 's power duo offers tenuous political stability it 's an action-packed week in russian politics with dmitry medvedev and vladimir putin taking up their respective offices .
yet everything is not as rosy as it might appear , says deutsche welle 's ingo mannteufel .
-lrb- 05.05.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
betancourt book sparks controversy in france technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket are the gay games necessary ?
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
doubts remain over medvedev 's power and policy after first year in office -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 05.09.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de russia -pipe- 07.05.2009 doubts remain over medvedev 's power and policy after first year in office großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : medvedev has had a busy first 12 months in power russian president dmitry medvedev marks the one-year anniversary of his coming to power on may 7 .
twelve months on , questions and doubts still remain over his legitimacy and his policies . global opinion was divided when dmitry medvedev became russian president on may 7 last year .
some saw the new leader as a puppet of vladimir putin , his predecessor and the man who medvedev had served loyally throughout his two terms in office .
others saw the incoming president as a man who could drive russia down a more liberal and democratic road , and reverse decades of state oppression .
one year on – a year during which medvedev has waged his first war and has been thrust into the forefront of the worst global economic crisis for over 80 years – questions and doubts still remain over whether medvedev is really the man leading russia and if he is , whether he is the right man to reform his nation .
so to what extent has medvedev been successful in attempting to answer those questions leveled against him ?
" from medvedev 's point of view , it 's probably been quite a successful year , " sam greene , the deputy director for operations at the carnegie endowment for international peace in moscow , told deutsche welle .
" this dual system of government which was put together – with medvedev as president and putin as prime minister – has not been without its problems but it 's worked relatively well .
it 's kept the ruling elite relatively cohesive and both medvedev and putin have remained popular politically and are seen as relatively legitimate both at home and internationally .
so it has been a success story for the experiment – which is what this presidency with putin as prime minister is ; a huge political experiment .
" but from a policy perspective , in terms of the reforms that medvedev talked about prior to becoming president ; strengthening the rule of law , diversifying the economy – there really have n't been any policy successes , " he added .
" his rhetoric has been very good .
he speaks very ably on the rule of law , on democracy , on economic liberalism but there was a lot of good rhetoric from putin on these issues for eight years and we did n't see any progress in that direction from him either . "
criticism stems from lack of reform progress much of the analysis of medvedev 's first year in power focuses on these promised reforms and the progress – or lack thereof – that russia has made in the spheres of democracy , human rights and press freedom .
according to professor margot light , a russia expert at the center for the study of global governance at the london school of economics , medvedev has fallen short of the optimists ' expectations .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : medvedev was initially against khodorkovsky 's second trial " there have been many words but very few deeds , " she said .
" medvedev came to power with everyone saying that he was far more liberal than putin .
in fact there has been very little sign of this .
it 's only been in the last couple of weeks that he 's started to talk the liberal talk , by giving an interview to an opposition newspaper , for example .
but apart from that there have been very little progress .
there has been the second trial of -lrb- jailed russian oil oligarch mikhail -rrb- khodorkovsky , even though medvedev himself seemed to be against it ; the electronic media is no freer than it was before he came to power and the non-governmental organizations are still having a tough time so there a very few signs that he has made much progress on the democratization front . "
meanwhile , amnesty international declared on the president 's first anniversary that little had been done to improve human rights in russia since he came to power .
in a statement released on thursday , amnesty said that in some areas the situation has deteriorated despite initial improvements , specifically in relation to attacks against lawyers , journalists and opposition activists which it said were on the rise .
sam greene agrees .
" the situation with the press has n't got any better , in fact in some cases it has actually gotten worse , " he said .
" we 've seen more violence against the press .
this is not state-sponsored violence but it 's part of the current climate and it is part of the responsibility of the state to improve the atmosphere and to make clear that violence against the media will not be tolerated .
" in terms of democracy , there was some talk about reforms to the electoral laws but they 've been slow in coming , " he added .
" we saw municipal elections around the country in which the ruling party continued to dominate , continued to rely on administrative resources and its ability to manipulate the system .
we saw this very clearly in the recent mayoral elections in sochi just like month . "
leadership partners still hugely popular in russia despite these criticisms , neither medvedev nor putin has suffered a serious reversal in popularity within the populace .
in fact , both retain huge support within russia .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : medvedev is gaining the kind of star status putin enjoys " medvedev enjoys very high ratings but the problem has always been that russians appear to prefer order to justice , " light said .
" russians are in favor of tough measures if they believe that those tough measures actually make the country more orderly .
so the president and putin still enjoy enormous support from the population . "
sam greene admits that medvedev and putin may have seen a minor dip in popularity but this is mainly due to the current economic crisis , which has seen unemployment in russia increase and income decrease , and not because of any democratic or liberal failures .
but greene believes that the population does n't hold the leadership partners responsible for its economic woes .
“ the people do n't blame medvedev and putin for these problems nor do they really expect the government or medvedev to be able to do much about them , " he said .
" the people are quite pragmatic , if not cynical , about the russian government 's ability to deal with this crisis . "
while medvedev 's polices have been increasingly scrutinized since he came to power , the partnership agreement struck between the president and his prime minister has also come under close inspection during this first year .
questions remain over who really is the boss bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the partnership has to and will endure , say experts the state of the two men 's relationship has been the subject of intense speculation lately as medvedev has grown into his role and repeated reports of an imminent split between the two have begun to circulate .
but both sam greene and margot light believe the partnership will endure .
" i think there was a very clear arrangement between the two of them ahead of their presidential election under which it was agreed that they were playing on the same team and playing the same role which was to maintain the outward legitimacy and stability of the political system and to mediate conflict between the various groups in the elite , " greene said .
" i would n't expect them to work at cross purposes unless there was a real split between the powerful elite in the country .
there seems to be a broad consensus that this current system needs to continue so i think the relationship between medvedev and putin will remain stable .
the only thing that 's changed is that medvedev has become a bit more comfortable in the position , has begun to understand what he can and can not do and become more confident with his rhetoric and his public persona . "
" there have been lots of attempts to find cracks between them , " light added .
" i think it 's fanciful .
i see no cracks between them .
if medvedev was there just to hold the place for putin until he could run again , the danger was always that medvedev would like the taste of power and decide he wanted to keep it for himself .
i see no sign that this has happened – yet , at any rate .
" however , internationally , medvedev is still seen very much as an instrument of putin 's policy , " light concluded .
" although he fulfills all the roles the constitution affords to the president , i still think there is a very strong feeling internationally that putin is making the decisions and medvedev is simply doing his bidding . "
author : nick amies editor chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de pro-kremlin candidate wins sochi mayoral poll amid claims of fraud amid claims of fraud , anatoly pakhomov , the pro-kremlin candidate in mayoral polls for the russian city of sochi , won a landslide victory in an election seen as a test of the political climate under president medvedev .
-lrb- 27.04.2009 -rrb- critics call putin treason bill means to quash opposition human rights organizations have criticized a new bill that would abolish jury trials for people suspected of treason , hostage-taking , organizing mass disturbances and several other serious crimes .
-lrb- 18.12.2008 -rrb- opinion : russia 's power duo offers tenuous political stability it 's an action-packed week in russian politics with dmitry medvedev and vladimir putin taking up their respective offices .
yet everything is not as rosy as it might appear , says deutsche welle 's ingo mannteufel .
-lrb- 05.05.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live living in germany listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
it simply is n't cricket are the gay games necessary ?
love parade - the end of an era oracle paul takes the plunge venturing into mafia turf europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
doubts remain over medvedev 's power and policy after first year in office -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 09.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de russia -pipe- 07.05.2009 doubts remain over medvedev 's power and policy after first year in office großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : medvedev has had a busy first 12 months in power russian president dmitry medvedev marks the one-year anniversary of his coming to power on may 7 .
twelve months on , questions and doubts still remain over his legitimacy and his policies . global opinion was divided when dmitry medvedev became russian president on may 7 last year .
some saw the new leader as a puppet of vladimir putin , his predecessor and the man who medvedev had served loyally throughout his two terms in office .
others saw the incoming president as a man who could drive russia down a more liberal and democratic road , and reverse decades of state oppression .
one year on – a year during which medvedev has waged his first war and has been thrust into the forefront of the worst global economic crisis for over 80 years – questions and doubts still remain over whether medvedev is really the man leading russia and if he is , whether he is the right man to reform his nation .
so to what extent has medvedev been successful in attempting to answer those questions leveled against him ?
" from medvedev 's point of view , it 's probably been quite a successful year , " sam greene , the deputy director for operations at the carnegie endowment for international peace in moscow , told deutsche welle .
" this dual system of government which was put together – with medvedev as president and putin as prime minister – has not been without its problems but it 's worked relatively well .
it 's kept the ruling elite relatively cohesive and both medvedev and putin have remained popular politically and are seen as relatively legitimate both at home and internationally .
so it has been a success story for the experiment – which is what this presidency with putin as prime minister is ; a huge political experiment .
" but from a policy perspective , in terms of the reforms that medvedev talked about prior to becoming president ; strengthening the rule of law , diversifying the economy – there really have n't been any policy successes , " he added .
" his rhetoric has been very good .
he speaks very ably on the rule of law , on democracy , on economic liberalism but there was a lot of good rhetoric from putin on these issues for eight years and we did n't see any progress in that direction from him either . "
criticism stems from lack of reform progress much of the analysis of medvedev 's first year in power focuses on these promised reforms and the progress – or lack thereof – that russia has made in the spheres of democracy , human rights and press freedom .
according to professor margot light , a russia expert at the center for the study of global governance at the london school of economics , medvedev has fallen short of the optimists ' expectations .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : medvedev was initially against khodorkovsky 's second trial " there have been many words but very few deeds , " she said .
" medvedev came to power with everyone saying that he was far more liberal than putin .
in fact there has been very little sign of this .
it 's only been in the last couple of weeks that he 's started to talk the liberal talk , by giving an interview to an opposition newspaper , for example .
but apart from that there have been very little progress .
there has been the second trial of -lrb- jailed russian oil oligarch mikhail -rrb- khodorkovsky , even though medvedev himself seemed to be against it ; the electronic media is no freer than it was before he came to power and the non-governmental organizations are still having a tough time so there a very few signs that he has made much progress on the democratization front . "
meanwhile , amnesty international declared on the president 's first anniversary that little had been done to improve human rights in russia since he came to power .
in a statement released on thursday , amnesty said that in some areas the situation has deteriorated despite initial improvements , specifically in relation to attacks against lawyers , journalists and opposition activists which it said were on the rise .
sam greene agrees .
" the situation with the press has n't got any better , in fact in some cases it has actually gotten worse , " he said .
" we 've seen more violence against the press .
this is not state-sponsored violence but it 's part of the current climate and it is part of the responsibility of the state to improve the atmosphere and to make clear that violence against the media will not be tolerated .
" in terms of democracy , there was some talk about reforms to the electoral laws but they 've been slow in coming , " he added .
" we saw municipal elections around the country in which the ruling party continued to dominate , continued to rely on administrative resources and its ability to manipulate the system .
we saw this very clearly in the recent mayoral elections in sochi just like month . "
leadership partners still hugely popular in russia despite these criticisms , neither medvedev nor putin has suffered a serious reversal in popularity within the populace .
in fact , both retain huge support within russia .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : medvedev is gaining the kind of star status putin enjoys " medvedev enjoys very high ratings but the problem has always been that russians appear to prefer order to justice , " light said .
" russians are in favor of tough measures if they believe that those tough measures actually make the country more orderly .
so the president and putin still enjoy enormous support from the population . "
sam greene admits that medvedev and putin may have seen a minor dip in popularity but this is mainly due to the current economic crisis , which has seen unemployment in russia increase and income decrease , and not because of any democratic or liberal failures .
but greene believes that the population does n't hold the leadership partners responsible for its economic woes .
“ the people do n't blame medvedev and putin for these problems nor do they really expect the government or medvedev to be able to do much about them , " he said .
" the people are quite pragmatic , if not cynical , about the russian government 's ability to deal with this crisis . "
while medvedev 's polices have been increasingly scrutinized since he came to power , the partnership agreement struck between the president and his prime minister has also come under close inspection during this first year .
questions remain over who really is the boss bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the partnership has to and will endure , say experts the state of the two men 's relationship has been the subject of intense speculation lately as medvedev has grown into his role and repeated reports of an imminent split between the two have begun to circulate .
but both sam greene and margot light believe the partnership will endure .
" i think there was a very clear arrangement between the two of them ahead of their presidential election under which it was agreed that they were playing on the same team and playing the same role which was to maintain the outward legitimacy and stability of the political system and to mediate conflict between the various groups in the elite , " greene said .
" i would n't expect them to work at cross purposes unless there was a real split between the powerful elite in the country .
there seems to be a broad consensus that this current system needs to continue so i think the relationship between medvedev and putin will remain stable .
the only thing that 's changed is that medvedev has become a bit more comfortable in the position , has begun to understand what he can and can not do and become more confident with his rhetoric and his public persona . "
" there have been lots of attempts to find cracks between them , " light added .
" i think it 's fanciful .
i see no cracks between them .
if medvedev was there just to hold the place for putin until he could run again , the danger was always that medvedev would like the taste of power and decide he wanted to keep it for himself .
i see no sign that this has happened – yet , at any rate .
" however , internationally , medvedev is still seen very much as an instrument of putin 's policy , " light concluded .
" although he fulfills all the roles the constitution affords to the president , i still think there is a very strong feeling internationally that putin is making the decisions and medvedev is simply doing his bidding . "
author : nick amies editor chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de pro-kremlin candidate wins sochi mayoral poll amid claims of fraud amid claims of fraud , anatoly pakhomov , the pro-kremlin candidate in mayoral polls for the russian city of sochi , won a landslide victory in an election seen as a test of the political climate under president medvedev .
-lrb- 27.04.2009 -rrb- critics call putin treason bill means to quash opposition human rights organizations have criticized a new bill that would abolish jury trials for people suspected of treason , hostage-taking , organizing mass disturbances and several other serious crimes .
-lrb- 18.12.2008 -rrb- opinion : russia 's power duo offers tenuous political stability it 's an action-packed week in russian politics with dmitry medvedev and vladimir putin taking up their respective offices .
yet everything is not as rosy as it might appear , says deutsche welle 's ingo mannteufel .
-lrb- 05.05.2008 -rrb- 9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live european journal - the magazine from brussels we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live arts on the air listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
europe 's borders african refugees flee unrest and arrive on island of malta with hopes for a better life .
watch the video art glass art has been made on the island of murano for centuries , but it still has an exciting future .
watch the video nuclear energy politicians in nuclear giant france decry germany 's decision to abandon the technology .
listen to the audio europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
doubts remain over medvedev 's power and policy after first year in office -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 11.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de russia -pipe- 07.05.2009 doubts remain over medvedev 's power and policy after first year in office großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : medvedev has had a busy first 12 months in power russian president dmitry medvedev marks the one-year anniversary of his coming to power on may 7 .
twelve months on , questions and doubts still remain over his legitimacy and his policies . global opinion was divided when dmitry medvedev became russian president on may 7 last year .
some saw the new leader as a puppet of vladimir putin , his predecessor and the man who medvedev had served loyally throughout his two terms in office .
others saw the incoming president as a man who could drive russia down a more liberal and democratic road , and reverse decades of state oppression .
one year on – a year during which medvedev has waged his first war and has been thrust into the forefront of the worst global economic crisis for over 80 years – questions and doubts still remain over whether medvedev is really the man leading russia and if he is , whether he is the right man to reform his nation .
so to what extent has medvedev been successful in attempting to answer those questions leveled against him ?
" from medvedev 's point of view , it 's probably been quite a successful year , " sam greene , the deputy director for operations at the carnegie endowment for international peace in moscow , told deutsche welle .
" this dual system of government which was put together – with medvedev as president and putin as prime minister – has not been without its problems but it 's worked relatively well .
it 's kept the ruling elite relatively cohesive and both medvedev and putin have remained popular politically and are seen as relatively legitimate both at home and internationally .
so it has been a success story for the experiment – which is what this presidency with putin as prime minister is ; a huge political experiment .
" but from a policy perspective , in terms of the reforms that medvedev talked about prior to becoming president ; strengthening the rule of law , diversifying the economy – there really have n't been any policy successes , " he added .
" his rhetoric has been very good .
he speaks very ably on the rule of law , on democracy , on economic liberalism but there was a lot of good rhetoric from putin on these issues for eight years and we did n't see any progress in that direction from him either . "
criticism stems from lack of reform progress much of the analysis of medvedev 's first year in power focuses on these promised reforms and the progress – or lack thereof – that russia has made in the spheres of democracy , human rights and press freedom .
according to professor margot light , a russia expert at the center for the study of global governance at the london school of economics , medvedev has fallen short of the optimists ' expectations .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : medvedev was initially against khodorkovsky 's second trial " there have been many words but very few deeds , " she said .
" medvedev came to power with everyone saying that he was far more liberal than putin .
in fact there has been very little sign of this .
it 's only been in the last couple of weeks that he 's started to talk the liberal talk , by giving an interview to an opposition newspaper , for example .
but apart from that there have been very little progress .
there has been the second trial of -lrb- jailed russian oil oligarch mikhail -rrb- khodorkovsky , even though medvedev himself seemed to be against it ; the electronic media is no freer than it was before he came to power and the non-governmental organizations are still having a tough time so there a very few signs that he has made much progress on the democratization front . "
meanwhile , amnesty international declared on the president 's first anniversary that little had been done to improve human rights in russia since he came to power .
in a statement released on thursday , amnesty said that in some areas the situation has deteriorated despite initial improvements , specifically in relation to attacks against lawyers , journalists and opposition activists which it said were on the rise .
sam greene agrees .
" the situation with the press has n't got any better , in fact in some cases it has actually gotten worse , " he said .
" we 've seen more violence against the press .
this is not state-sponsored violence but it 's part of the current climate and it is part of the responsibility of the state to improve the atmosphere and to make clear that violence against the media will not be tolerated .
" in terms of democracy , there was some talk about reforms to the electoral laws but they 've been slow in coming , " he added .
" we saw municipal elections around the country in which the ruling party continued to dominate , continued to rely on administrative resources and its ability to manipulate the system .
we saw this very clearly in the recent mayoral elections in sochi just like month . "
leadership partners still hugely popular in russia despite these criticisms , neither medvedev nor putin has suffered a serious reversal in popularity within the populace .
in fact , both retain huge support within russia .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : medvedev is gaining the kind of star status putin enjoys " medvedev enjoys very high ratings but the problem has always been that russians appear to prefer order to justice , " light said .
" russians are in favor of tough measures if they believe that those tough measures actually make the country more orderly .
so the president and putin still enjoy enormous support from the population . "
sam greene admits that medvedev and putin may have seen a minor dip in popularity but this is mainly due to the current economic crisis , which has seen unemployment in russia increase and income decrease , and not because of any democratic or liberal failures .
but greene believes that the population does n't hold the leadership partners responsible for its economic woes .
“ the people do n't blame medvedev and putin for these problems nor do they really expect the government or medvedev to be able to do much about them , " he said .
" the people are quite pragmatic , if not cynical , about the russian government 's ability to deal with this crisis . "
while medvedev 's polices have been increasingly scrutinized since he came to power , the partnership agreement struck between the president and his prime minister has also come under close inspection during this first year .
questions remain over who really is the boss bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the partnership has to and will endure , say experts the state of the two men 's relationship has been the subject of intense speculation lately as medvedev has grown into his role and repeated reports of an imminent split between the two have begun to circulate .
but both sam greene and margot light believe the partnership will endure .
" i think there was a very clear arrangement between the two of them ahead of their presidential election under which it was agreed that they were playing on the same team and playing the same role which was to maintain the outward legitimacy and stability of the political system and to mediate conflict between the various groups in the elite , " greene said .
" i would n't expect them to work at cross purposes unless there was a real split between the powerful elite in the country .
there seems to be a broad consensus that this current system needs to continue so i think the relationship between medvedev and putin will remain stable .
the only thing that 's changed is that medvedev has become a bit more comfortable in the position , has begun to understand what he can and can not do and become more confident with his rhetoric and his public persona . "
" there have been lots of attempts to find cracks between them , " light added .
" i think it 's fanciful .
i see no cracks between them .
if medvedev was there just to hold the place for putin until he could run again , the danger was always that medvedev would like the taste of power and decide he wanted to keep it for himself .
i see no sign that this has happened – yet , at any rate .
" however , internationally , medvedev is still seen very much as an instrument of putin 's policy , " light concluded .
" although he fulfills all the roles the constitution affords to the president , i still think there is a very strong feeling internationally that putin is making the decisions and medvedev is simply doing his bidding . "
author : nick amies editor chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de pro-kremlin candidate wins sochi mayoral poll amid claims of fraud amid claims of fraud , anatoly pakhomov , the pro-kremlin candidate in mayoral polls for the russian city of sochi , won a landslide victory in an election seen as a test of the political climate under president medvedev .
-lrb- 27.04.2009 -rrb- critics call putin treason bill means to quash opposition human rights organizations have criticized a new bill that would abolish jury trials for people suspected of treason , hostage-taking , organizing mass disturbances and several other serious crimes .
-lrb- 18.12.2008 -rrb- opinion : russia 's power duo offers tenuous political stability it 's an action-packed week in russian politics with dmitry medvedev and vladimir putin taking up their respective offices .
yet everything is not as rosy as it might appear , says deutsche welle 's ingo mannteufel .
-lrb- 05.05.2008 -rrb- 9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit die woche we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
italy italy 's prime minister has again expressed his disapproval of nato 's mission in libya .
listen to the audio world war ii nazi leader adolf hitler 's austrian birthplace kicks him off its list of honorary citizens .
listen to the audio russia russia 's defense minister comes under fire from the top over gaps in the country 's armaments .
listen to the audio transport with fuel prices at record highs , germans head to luxembourg to take advantage of low fuel tax .
listen to the audio inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
fiat reported to have plans to shut down german opel plant -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 11.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de auto industry -pipe- 07.05.2009 fiat reported to have plans to shut down german opel plant großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : at this stage , the road fiat plans to take in its proposed opel takeover is unclear italian auto group fiat could shut down as many as five factories , including one in germany , as part of its plans to take over the european operations of struggling us auto giant , general motors . according to media reports that cite fiat 's proposal to the german government from earlier this week , the opel plant in kaiserslautern would cease operations under fiat .
plants in bochum and the opel headquarters at ruesselsheim would , according to the reports , be scaled down , as part of " project phoenix " .
one gm plant in england , one in austria , as well as two italian factories would also be part of the shutdown list , according to the reports .
however , this contradicts fiat ceo sergio marchionne 's denial earlier this week that any of opel 's four german plans would be closed . job cuts " inevitable " - no matter who takes over bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : opel employees ' fate is still very much up in the air armin schild , a member of opel 's supervisory board , said job cuts would be inevitable in a takeover of opel .
job cut plans are one of the key criteria on which the suitability of potential investors in opel will be judged , according to a checklist drawn up by vice-chancellor frank-walter steinmeier -lrb- spd -rrb- , who will is to challenge chancellor angela merkel -lrb- cdu -rrb- in september 's federal election .
schild , who represents labor union ig metall on the board , also said the austrian-canadian car parts maker magna has so far presented a more concrete takeover proposal .
media reports have said that possible partners for magna include russian carmaker gaz as well as russia 's sberbank .
gaz and its owner , billionaire oleg deripaska , have repeatedly denied interest .
general motors teeters on bridge of bankruptcy meanwhile , opel 's parent company , general motors , has announced a quarterly net loss of six billion dollars -lrb- 4.5 billion euros -rrb- - its eighth quarterly loss in a row .
it also announced a loss of 2 billion dollars -lrb- 1.5 billion euros -rrb- from its european operations .
revenue dropped by 47 percent , to 22.4 billion dollars .
gm , the largest us carmaker , is currently operating under a us federal bail-out plan .
it is threatened with bankruptcy , as has already happened to its competitor , chrysler .
us president barack obama has given gm an end-of-may deadline for a new restructuring plan to be implemented . cg / dpa , reuters / ap / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de fiat denies it plans to cut 18,000 jobs , close factories fiat has denied a german news report that it plans to cut 18,000 jobs and close 10 factories in europe , should it succeed in its bid to take over gm 's european operations .
-lrb- 06.05.2009 -rrb- fiat boss commits to opel plants in germany the head of italian automaker fiat , sergio marchionne , has said in an interview he wants to keep open all four opel plants in germany after a possible takeover of the struggling carmaker .
-lrb- 05.05.2009 -rrb- magna meets with guttenberg over possible opel deal representatives from the canadian-austrian car parts supplier have presented germany 's economics minister with a draft plan for bailing out opel .
but the troubled carmaker remains a bone of contention .
-lrb- 28.04.2009 -rrb- 9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit tagesthema we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
business the historic german brand faber-castell celebrates 250 years of making pencils and pens .
watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
fiat reported to have plans to shut down german opel plant -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 17.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de auto industry -pipe- 07.05.2009 fiat reported to have plans to shut down german opel plant großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : at this stage , the road fiat plans to take in its proposed opel takeover is unclear italian auto group fiat could shut down as many as five factories , including one in germany , as part of its plans to take over the european operations of struggling us auto giant , general motors . according to media reports that cite fiat 's proposal to the german government from earlier this week , the opel plant in kaiserslautern would cease operations under fiat .
plants in bochum and the opel headquarters at ruesselsheim would , according to the reports , be scaled down , as part of " project phoenix " .
one gm plant in england , one in austria , as well as two italian factories would also be part of the shutdown list , according to the reports .
however , this contradicts fiat ceo sergio marchionne 's denial earlier this week that any of opel 's four german plans would be closed . job cuts " inevitable " - no matter who takes over bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : opel employees ' fate is still very much up in the air armin schild , a member of opel 's supervisory board , said job cuts would be inevitable in a takeover of opel .
job cut plans are one of the key criteria on which the suitability of potential investors in opel will be judged , according to a checklist drawn up by vice-chancellor frank-walter steinmeier -lrb- spd -rrb- , who will is to challenge chancellor angela merkel -lrb- cdu -rrb- in september 's federal election .
schild , who represents labor union ig metall on the board , also said the austrian-canadian car parts maker magna has so far presented a more concrete takeover proposal .
media reports have said that possible partners for magna include russian carmaker gaz as well as russia 's sberbank .
gaz and its owner , billionaire oleg deripaska , have repeatedly denied interest .
general motors teeters on bridge of bankruptcy meanwhile , opel 's parent company , general motors , has announced a quarterly net loss of six billion dollars -lrb- 4.5 billion euros -rrb- - its eighth quarterly loss in a row .
it also announced a loss of 2 billion dollars -lrb- 1.5 billion euros -rrb- from its european operations .
revenue dropped by 47 percent , to 22.4 billion dollars .
gm , the largest us carmaker , is currently operating under a us federal bail-out plan .
it is threatened with bankruptcy , as has already happened to its competitor , chrysler .
us president barack obama has given gm an end-of-may deadline for a new restructuring plan to be implemented . cg / dpa , reuters / ap / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de fiat denies it plans to cut 18,000 jobs , close factories fiat has denied a german news report that it plans to cut 18,000 jobs and close 10 factories in europe , should it succeed in its bid to take over gm 's european operations .
-lrb- 06.05.2009 -rrb- fiat boss commits to opel plants in germany the head of italian automaker fiat , sergio marchionne , has said in an interview he wants to keep open all four opel plants in germany after a possible takeover of the struggling carmaker .
-lrb- 05.05.2009 -rrb- magna meets with guttenberg over possible opel deal representatives from the canadian-austrian car parts supplier have presented germany 's economics minister with a draft plan for bailing out opel .
but the troubled carmaker remains a bone of contention .
-lrb- 28.04.2009 -rrb- 9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live european journal - the magazine from brussels we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live soundscape 100 soundscape 100 : the latest from germany 's top 100 ... and more !
listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
digital street art artists in berlin reinvent graffiti by projecting light onto buildings using computer systems .
watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
the secret behind germany 's unemployment rate remaining stagnant -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 10.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de labor market -pipe- 07.05.2009 the secret behind germany 's unemployment rate remaining stagnant großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the automobile industry faces eerily empty halls as working hours are slashed german businesses , hard-hit by the financial crisis , resort to a time-tested instrument : rather than fire employees , their working hours are reduced . germany 's economy is expected to shrink by 6 percent this year , according to both the government and leading economic institutes .
but the number of jobless has not skyrocketed , and that is due to the german practice of reduced working hours – not a new concept here , but routinely employed in crises like the 1970s oil embargo , and again after reunification in the early 1990s .
they are all deeply in the red : that is what germany 's leading businesses have in common these days when they look at their first quarter figures .
but rather than lay off valuable workers , they 've ordered reduced working hours .
more than a third of automaker daimler 's and roughly a quarter of bmw 's employees , for instance , are working reduced hours .
at chemical giant basf , more than 4,000 people work shorter hours , and another 3,000 are to join them in june .
production at printer heidelberger druck is down to 11 days a month . instrument to stabilize the job market about 1,4 million people worked shorter hours in april , says germany 's federal labour agency .
the labor market is stable as a result of these many shorter working hours , says agency chief frank-juerrgen weise .
employers revert to shorter working hours when the number of orders dwindles , but the firm wants to keep its skilled workers and specialists .
while the employers only pay wages for the reduced hours , they do continue to pay the full social security dues .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : hundreds-of-thousands manage to keep their jobs but work reduced hours benefits are available from germany 's labor agency for a maximum of 18 months .
workers without children , for instance , can expect 60 percent of their last net salary , families with children are granted seven percent more .
to top that , labour minister olaf scholz last week proposed taking over all social security payments from the companies after half a year , as well as extending the term of shorter working hours from 18 months to two years .
dieter hundt , president of the german employers ' federation bda , was initially opposed to extending to 24 months the option of reduced working hours .
but he welcomed the government 's plan .
" discarding all social security payments is extremely important for the companies , " he said after a meeting last week with scholz and michael sommer , head of the dgb labor federation .
here in germany , social security payments include old age insurance , jobless insurance and health and nursing care insurance – all in all , more than 20 percent of the gross pay package . supporting reduced working hours is expected to cost the federal labor agency about 500 million euros for 100,000 people per year .
critics fear abuse of labor office plans hilmar schneider , director of labor market policies at the institute for the future of labor , iza , is critical of the labor agency 's policy of taking over all social security payments after six months of reduced work . a firm could keep on an employee but reduce his hours to zero , he explains , making him de facto unemployed .
but that employee would still receive his full pay from the labor agency for 24 months . then , the employee could register as unemployed – and would again be eligible for 24 months of financial support .
firms could of course lay off workers , hilmar schneider says , but that is something the government is trying to prevent at all costs .
" with parliamentary elections in september , " the labour market expert says , " the media would be full of mass lay-offs in time for the election . "
danhong zhang / dagmar breitenbach / rob mudge send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de spring employment boost fails to materialize a much-hoped-for springtime jobs boost has failed to materialize , official german figures show .
-lrb- 30.04.2009 -rrb- economic institutes see hard times ahead leading german economic institutes say europe 's largest economy is caught up in the maelstrom of a global recession .
their forecast is even gloomier than the imf 's prediction for 2009 .
-lrb- 23.04.2009 -rrb- germany extends new car subsidy program german chancellor angela merkel 's grand coalition has agreed to boost subsidies for consumers who trade in their old cars for new ones from 1.5 billion euros to five billion euros -lrb- us $ 6.6 billion -rrb- .
-lrb- 08.04.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic listen here to more about " kurzarbeit " 9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - news with the week we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live living in germany listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
politics german opposition parties fail to block a possible deal to sell tanks to saudi arabia .
picasso on loan to the palestinians feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
the secret behind germany 's unemployment rate remaining stagnant -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 08.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de labor market -pipe- 07.05.2009 the secret behind germany 's unemployment rate remaining stagnant großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the automobile industry faces eerily empty halls as working hours are slashed german businesses , hard-hit by the financial crisis , resort to a time-tested instrument : rather than fire employees , their working hours are reduced . germany 's economy is expected to shrink by 6 percent this year , according to both the government and leading economic institutes .
but the number of jobless has not skyrocketed , and that is due to the german practice of reduced working hours – not a new concept here , but routinely employed in crises like the 1970s oil embargo , and again after reunification in the early 1990s .
they are all deeply in the red : that is what germany 's leading businesses have in common these days when they look at their first quarter figures .
but rather than lay off valuable workers , they 've ordered reduced working hours .
more than a third of automaker daimler 's and roughly a quarter of bmw 's employees , for instance , are working reduced hours .
at chemical giant basf , more than 4,000 people work shorter hours , and another 3,000 are to join them in june .
production at printer heidelberger druck is down to 11 days a month . instrument to stabilize the job market about 1,4 million people worked shorter hours in april , says germany 's federal labour agency .
the labor market is stable as a result of these many shorter working hours , says agency chief frank-juerrgen weise .
employers revert to shorter working hours when the number of orders dwindles , but the firm wants to keep its skilled workers and specialists .
while the employers only pay wages for the reduced hours , they do continue to pay the full social security dues .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : hundreds-of-thousands manage to keep their jobs but work reduced hours benefits are available from germany 's labor agency for a maximum of 18 months .
workers without children , for instance , can expect 60 percent of their last net salary , families with children are granted seven percent more .
to top that , labour minister olaf scholz last week proposed taking over all social security payments from the companies after half a year , as well as extending the term of shorter working hours from 18 months to two years .
dieter hundt , president of the german employers ' federation bda , was initially opposed to extending to 24 months the option of reduced working hours .
but he welcomed the government 's plan .
" discarding all social security payments is extremely important for the companies , " he said after a meeting last week with scholz and michael sommer , head of the dgb labor federation .
here in germany , social security payments include old age insurance , jobless insurance and health and nursing care insurance – all in all , more than 20 percent of the gross pay package . supporting reduced working hours is expected to cost the federal labor agency about 500 million euros for 100,000 people per year .
critics fear abuse of labor office plans hilmar schneider , director of labor market policies at the institute for the future of labor , iza , is critical of the labor agency 's policy of taking over all social security payments after six months of reduced work . a firm could keep on an employee but reduce his hours to zero , he explains , making him de facto unemployed .
but that employee would still receive his full pay from the labor agency for 24 months . then , the employee could register as unemployed – and would again be eligible for 24 months of financial support .
firms could of course lay off workers , hilmar schneider says , but that is something the government is trying to prevent at all costs .
" with parliamentary elections in september , " the labour market expert says , " the media would be full of mass lay-offs in time for the election . "
danhong zhang / dagmar breitenbach / rob mudge send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de spring employment boost fails to materialize a much-hoped-for springtime jobs boost has failed to materialize , official german figures show .
-lrb- 30.04.2009 -rrb- economic institutes see hard times ahead leading german economic institutes say europe 's largest economy is caught up in the maelstrom of a global recession .
their forecast is even gloomier than the imf 's prediction for 2009 .
-lrb- 23.04.2009 -rrb- germany extends new car subsidy program german chancellor angela merkel 's grand coalition has agreed to boost subsidies for consumers who trade in their old cars for new ones from 1.5 billion euros to five billion euros -lrb- us $ 6.6 billion -rrb- .
-lrb- 08.04.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic listen here to more about " kurzarbeit " 9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit wirtschaft we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
business the historic german brand faber-castell celebrates 250 years of making pencils and pens .
watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
the secret behind germany 's unemployment rate remaining stagnant -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 26.10.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de labor market -pipe- 07.05.2009 the secret behind germany 's unemployment rate remaining stagnant großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the automobile industry faces eerily empty halls as working hours are slashed german businesses , hard-hit by the financial crisis , resort to a time-tested instrument : rather than fire employees , their working hours are reduced . germany 's economy is expected to shrink by 6 percent this year , according to both the government and leading economic institutes .
but the number of jobless has not skyrocketed , and that is due to the german practice of reduced working hours – not a new concept here , but routinely employed in crises like the 1970s oil embargo , and again after reunification in the early 1990s .
they are all deeply in the red : that is what germany 's leading businesses have in common these days when they look at their first quarter figures .
but rather than lay off valuable workers , they 've ordered reduced working hours .
more than a third of automaker daimler 's and roughly a quarter of bmw 's employees , for instance , are working reduced hours .
at chemical giant basf , more than 4,000 people work shorter hours , and another 3,000 are to join them in june .
production at printer heidelberger druck is down to 11 days a month . instrument to stabilize the job market about 1,4 million people worked shorter hours in april , says germany 's federal labour agency .
the labor market is stable as a result of these many shorter working hours , says agency chief frank-juerrgen weise .
employers revert to shorter working hours when the number of orders dwindles , but the firm wants to keep its skilled workers and specialists .
while the employers only pay wages for the reduced hours , they do continue to pay the full social security dues .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : hundreds-of-thousands manage to keep their jobs but work reduced hours benefits are available from germany 's labor agency for a maximum of 18 months .
workers without children , for instance , can expect 60 percent of their last net salary , families with children are granted seven percent more .
to top that , labour minister olaf scholz last week proposed taking over all social security payments from the companies after half a year , as well as extending the term of shorter working hours from 18 months to two years .
dieter hundt , president of the german employers ' federation bda , was initially opposed to extending to 24 months the option of reduced working hours .
but he welcomed the government 's plan .
" discarding all social security payments is extremely important for the companies , " he said after a meeting last week with scholz and michael sommer , head of the dgb labor federation .
here in germany , social security payments include old age insurance , jobless insurance and health and nursing care insurance – all in all , more than 20 percent of the gross pay package . supporting reduced working hours is expected to cost the federal labor agency about 500 million euros for 100,000 people per year .
critics fear abuse of labor office plans hilmar schneider , director of labor market policies at the institute for the future of labor , iza , is critical of the labor agency 's policy of taking over all social security payments after six months of reduced work . a firm could keep on an employee but reduce his hours to zero , he explains , making him de facto unemployed .
but that employee would still receive his full pay from the labor agency for 24 months . then , the employee could register as unemployed – and would again be eligible for 24 months of financial support .
firms could of course lay off workers , hilmar schneider says , but that is something the government is trying to prevent at all costs .
" with parliamentary elections in september , " the labour market expert says , " the media would be full of mass lay-offs in time for the election . "
danhong zhang / dagmar breitenbach / rob mudge send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de spring employment boost fails to materialize a much-hoped-for springtime jobs boost has failed to materialize , official german figures show .
-lrb- 30.04.2009 -rrb- economic institutes see hard times ahead leading german economic institutes say europe 's largest economy is caught up in the maelstrom of a global recession .
their forecast is even gloomier than the imf 's prediction for 2009 .
-lrb- 23.04.2009 -rrb- germany extends new car subsidy program german chancellor angela merkel 's grand coalition has agreed to boost subsidies for consumers who trade in their old cars for new ones from 1.5 billion euros to five billion euros -lrb- us $ 6.6 billion -rrb- .
-lrb- 08.04.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic listen here to more about " kurzarbeit " feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live in focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inspired minds remembering the late dame joan sutherland listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
the secret behind germany 's unemployment rate remaining stagnant -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 17.01.2011 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de labor market -pipe- 07.05.2009 the secret behind germany 's unemployment rate remaining stagnant großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the automobile industry faces eerily empty halls as working hours are slashed german businesses , hard-hit by the financial crisis , resort to a time-tested instrument : rather than fire employees , their working hours are reduced . germany 's economy is expected to shrink by 6 percent this year , according to both the government and leading economic institutes .
but the number of jobless has not skyrocketed , and that is due to the german practice of reduced working hours – not a new concept here , but routinely employed in crises like the 1970s oil embargo , and again after reunification in the early 1990s .
they are all deeply in the red : that is what germany 's leading businesses have in common these days when they look at their first quarter figures .
but rather than lay off valuable workers , they 've ordered reduced working hours .
more than a third of automaker daimler 's and roughly a quarter of bmw 's employees , for instance , are working reduced hours .
at chemical giant basf , more than 4,000 people work shorter hours , and another 3,000 are to join them in june .
production at printer heidelberger druck is down to 11 days a month . instrument to stabilize the job market about 1,4 million people worked shorter hours in april , says germany 's federal labour agency .
the labor market is stable as a result of these many shorter working hours , says agency chief frank-juerrgen weise .
employers revert to shorter working hours when the number of orders dwindles , but the firm wants to keep its skilled workers and specialists .
while the employers only pay wages for the reduced hours , they do continue to pay the full social security dues .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : hundreds-of-thousands manage to keep their jobs but work reduced hours benefits are available from germany 's labor agency for a maximum of 18 months .
workers without children , for instance , can expect 60 percent of their last net salary , families with children are granted seven percent more .
to top that , labour minister olaf scholz last week proposed taking over all social security payments from the companies after half a year , as well as extending the term of shorter working hours from 18 months to two years .
dieter hundt , president of the german employers ' federation bda , was initially opposed to extending to 24 months the option of reduced working hours .
but he welcomed the government 's plan .
" discarding all social security payments is extremely important for the companies , " he said after a meeting last week with scholz and michael sommer , head of the dgb labor federation .
here in germany , social security payments include old age insurance , jobless insurance and health and nursing care insurance – all in all , more than 20 percent of the gross pay package . supporting reduced working hours is expected to cost the federal labor agency about 500 million euros for 100,000 people per year .
critics fear abuse of labor office plans hilmar schneider , director of labor market policies at the institute for the future of labor , iza , is critical of the labor agency 's policy of taking over all social security payments after six months of reduced work . a firm could keep on an employee but reduce his hours to zero , he explains , making him de facto unemployed .
but that employee would still receive his full pay from the labor agency for 24 months . then , the employee could register as unemployed – and would again be eligible for 24 months of financial support .
firms could of course lay off workers , hilmar schneider says , but that is something the government is trying to prevent at all costs .
" with parliamentary elections in september , " the labour market expert says , " the media would be full of mass lay-offs in time for the election . "
danhong zhang / dagmar breitenbach / rob mudge send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de spring employment boost fails to materialize a much-hoped-for springtime jobs boost has failed to materialize , official german figures show .
-lrb- 30.04.2009 -rrb- economic institutes see hard times ahead leading german economic institutes say europe 's largest economy is caught up in the maelstrom of a global recession .
their forecast is even gloomier than the imf 's prediction for 2009 .
-lrb- 23.04.2009 -rrb- germany extends new car subsidy program german chancellor angela merkel 's grand coalition has agreed to boost subsidies for consumers who trade in their old cars for new ones from 1.5 billion euros to five billion euros -lrb- us $ 6.6 billion -rrb- .
-lrb- 08.04.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic listen here to more about " kurzarbeit " feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live concert hour kent nagano / bavarian state orchestra listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
the secret behind germany 's unemployment rate remaining stagnant -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 20.09.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de labor market -pipe- 07.05.2009 the secret behind germany 's unemployment rate remaining stagnant großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the automobile industry faces eerily empty halls as working hours are slashed german businesses , hard-hit by the financial crisis , resort to a time-tested instrument : rather than fire employees , their working hours are reduced . germany 's economy is expected to shrink by 6 percent this year , according to both the government and leading economic institutes .
but the number of jobless has not skyrocketed , and that is due to the german practice of reduced working hours – not a new concept here , but routinely employed in crises like the 1970s oil embargo , and again after reunification in the early 1990s .
they are all deeply in the red : that is what germany 's leading businesses have in common these days when they look at their first quarter figures .
but rather than lay off valuable workers , they 've ordered reduced working hours .
more than a third of automaker daimler 's and roughly a quarter of bmw 's employees , for instance , are working reduced hours .
at chemical giant basf , more than 4,000 people work shorter hours , and another 3,000 are to join them in june .
production at printer heidelberger druck is down to 11 days a month . instrument to stabilize the job market about 1,4 million people worked shorter hours in april , says germany 's federal labour agency .
the labor market is stable as a result of these many shorter working hours , says agency chief frank-juerrgen weise .
employers revert to shorter working hours when the number of orders dwindles , but the firm wants to keep its skilled workers and specialists .
while the employers only pay wages for the reduced hours , they do continue to pay the full social security dues .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : hundreds-of-thousands manage to keep their jobs but work reduced hours benefits are available from germany 's labor agency for a maximum of 18 months .
workers without children , for instance , can expect 60 percent of their last net salary , families with children are granted seven percent more .
to top that , labour minister olaf scholz last week proposed taking over all social security payments from the companies after half a year , as well as extending the term of shorter working hours from 18 months to two years .
dieter hundt , president of the german employers ' federation bda , was initially opposed to extending to 24 months the option of reduced working hours .
but he welcomed the government 's plan .
" discarding all social security payments is extremely important for the companies , " he said after a meeting last week with scholz and michael sommer , head of the dgb labor federation .
here in germany , social security payments include old age insurance , jobless insurance and health and nursing care insurance – all in all , more than 20 percent of the gross pay package . supporting reduced working hours is expected to cost the federal labor agency about 500 million euros for 100,000 people per year .
critics fear abuse of labor office plans hilmar schneider , director of labor market policies at the institute for the future of labor , iza , is critical of the labor agency 's policy of taking over all social security payments after six months of reduced work . a firm could keep on an employee but reduce his hours to zero , he explains , making him de facto unemployed .
but that employee would still receive his full pay from the labor agency for 24 months . then , the employee could register as unemployed – and would again be eligible for 24 months of financial support .
firms could of course lay off workers , hilmar schneider says , but that is something the government is trying to prevent at all costs .
" with parliamentary elections in september , " the labour market expert says , " the media would be full of mass lay-offs in time for the election . "
danhong zhang / dagmar breitenbach / rob mudge send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de spring employment boost fails to materialize a much-hoped-for springtime jobs boost has failed to materialize , official german figures show .
-lrb- 30.04.2009 -rrb- economic institutes see hard times ahead leading german economic institutes say europe 's largest economy is caught up in the maelstrom of a global recession .
their forecast is even gloomier than the imf 's prediction for 2009 .
-lrb- 23.04.2009 -rrb- germany extends new car subsidy program german chancellor angela merkel 's grand coalition has agreed to boost subsidies for consumers who trade in their old cars for new ones from 1.5 billion euros to five billion euros -lrb- us $ 6.6 billion -rrb- .
-lrb- 08.04.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic listen here to more about " kurzarbeit " feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live concert hour dresden musikfestival 01 listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
the secret behind germany 's unemployment rate remaining stagnant -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 29.11.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de labor market -pipe- 07.05.2009 the secret behind germany 's unemployment rate remaining stagnant großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the automobile industry faces eerily empty halls as working hours are slashed german businesses , hard-hit by the financial crisis , resort to a time-tested instrument : rather than fire employees , their working hours are reduced . germany 's economy is expected to shrink by 6 percent this year , according to both the government and leading economic institutes .
but the number of jobless has not skyrocketed , and that is due to the german practice of reduced working hours – not a new concept here , but routinely employed in crises like the 1970s oil embargo , and again after reunification in the early 1990s .
they are all deeply in the red : that is what germany 's leading businesses have in common these days when they look at their first quarter figures .
but rather than lay off valuable workers , they 've ordered reduced working hours .
more than a third of automaker daimler 's and roughly a quarter of bmw 's employees , for instance , are working reduced hours .
at chemical giant basf , more than 4,000 people work shorter hours , and another 3,000 are to join them in june .
production at printer heidelberger druck is down to 11 days a month . instrument to stabilize the job market about 1,4 million people worked shorter hours in april , says germany 's federal labour agency .
the labor market is stable as a result of these many shorter working hours , says agency chief frank-juerrgen weise .
employers revert to shorter working hours when the number of orders dwindles , but the firm wants to keep its skilled workers and specialists .
while the employers only pay wages for the reduced hours , they do continue to pay the full social security dues .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : hundreds-of-thousands manage to keep their jobs but work reduced hours benefits are available from germany 's labor agency for a maximum of 18 months .
workers without children , for instance , can expect 60 percent of their last net salary , families with children are granted seven percent more .
to top that , labour minister olaf scholz last week proposed taking over all social security payments from the companies after half a year , as well as extending the term of shorter working hours from 18 months to two years .
dieter hundt , president of the german employers ' federation bda , was initially opposed to extending to 24 months the option of reduced working hours .
but he welcomed the government 's plan .
" discarding all social security payments is extremely important for the companies , " he said after a meeting last week with scholz and michael sommer , head of the dgb labor federation .
here in germany , social security payments include old age insurance , jobless insurance and health and nursing care insurance – all in all , more than 20 percent of the gross pay package . supporting reduced working hours is expected to cost the federal labor agency about 500 million euros for 100,000 people per year .
critics fear abuse of labor office plans hilmar schneider , director of labor market policies at the institute for the future of labor , iza , is critical of the labor agency 's policy of taking over all social security payments after six months of reduced work . a firm could keep on an employee but reduce his hours to zero , he explains , making him de facto unemployed .
but that employee would still receive his full pay from the labor agency for 24 months . then , the employee could register as unemployed – and would again be eligible for 24 months of financial support .
firms could of course lay off workers , hilmar schneider says , but that is something the government is trying to prevent at all costs .
" with parliamentary elections in september , " the labour market expert says , " the media would be full of mass lay-offs in time for the election . "
danhong zhang / dagmar breitenbach / rob mudge send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de spring employment boost fails to materialize a much-hoped-for springtime jobs boost has failed to materialize , official german figures show .
-lrb- 30.04.2009 -rrb- economic institutes see hard times ahead leading german economic institutes say europe 's largest economy is caught up in the maelstrom of a global recession .
their forecast is even gloomier than the imf 's prediction for 2009 .
-lrb- 23.04.2009 -rrb- germany extends new car subsidy program german chancellor angela merkel 's grand coalition has agreed to boost subsidies for consumers who trade in their old cars for new ones from 1.5 billion euros to five billion euros -lrb- us $ 6.6 billion -rrb- .
-lrb- 08.04.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic listen here to more about " kurzarbeit " feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live global 3000 we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live living in germany listen live travel passau is called the three river city , but it is just as famous for its baroque splendor .
passau - baroque facades and vibrant arts watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
fiat reported to have plans to shut down german opel plant -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 30.09.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de auto industry -pipe- 07.05.2009 fiat reported to have plans to shut down german opel plant großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : at this stage , the road fiat plans to take in its proposed opel takeover is unclear italian auto group fiat could shut down as many as five factories , including one in germany , as part of its plans to take over the european operations of struggling us auto giant , general motors . according to media reports that cite fiat 's proposal to the german government from earlier this week , the opel plant in kaiserslautern would cease operations under fiat .
plants in bochum and the opel headquarters at ruesselsheim would , according to the reports , be scaled down , as part of " project phoenix " .
one gm plant in england , one in austria , as well as two italian factories would also be part of the shutdown list , according to the reports .
however , this contradicts fiat ceo sergio marchionne 's denial earlier this week that any of opel 's four german plans would be closed . job cuts " inevitable " - no matter who takes over bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : opel employees ' fate is still very much up in the air armin schild , a member of opel 's supervisory board , said job cuts would be inevitable in a takeover of opel .
job cut plans are one of the key criteria on which the suitability of potential investors in opel will be judged , according to a checklist drawn up by vice-chancellor frank-walter steinmeier -lrb- spd -rrb- , who will is to challenge chancellor angela merkel -lrb- cdu -rrb- in september 's federal election .
schild , who represents labor union ig metall on the board , also said the austrian-canadian car parts maker magna has so far presented a more concrete takeover proposal .
media reports have said that possible partners for magna include russian carmaker gaz as well as russia 's sberbank .
gaz and its owner , billionaire oleg deripaska , have repeatedly denied interest .
general motors teeters on bridge of bankruptcy meanwhile , opel 's parent company , general motors , has announced a quarterly net loss of six billion dollars -lrb- 4.5 billion euros -rrb- - its eighth quarterly loss in a row .
it also announced a loss of 2 billion dollars -lrb- 1.5 billion euros -rrb- from its european operations .
revenue dropped by 47 percent , to 22.4 billion dollars .
gm , the largest us carmaker , is currently operating under a us federal bail-out plan .
it is threatened with bankruptcy , as has already happened to its competitor , chrysler .
us president barack obama has given gm an end-of-may deadline for a new restructuring plan to be implemented . cg / dpa , reuters / ap / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de fiat denies it plans to cut 18,000 jobs , close factories fiat has denied a german news report that it plans to cut 18,000 jobs and close 10 factories in europe , should it succeed in its bid to take over gm 's european operations .
-lrb- 06.05.2009 -rrb- fiat boss commits to opel plants in germany the head of italian automaker fiat , sergio marchionne , has said in an interview he wants to keep open all four opel plants in germany after a possible takeover of the struggling carmaker .
-lrb- 05.05.2009 -rrb- magna meets with guttenberg over possible opel deal representatives from the canadian-austrian car parts supplier have presented germany 's economics minister with a draft plan for bailing out opel .
but the troubled carmaker remains a bone of contention .
-lrb- 28.04.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
fiat reported to have plans to shut down german opel plant -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 19.01.2011 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de auto industry -pipe- 07.05.2009 fiat reported to have plans to shut down german opel plant großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : at this stage , the road fiat plans to take in its proposed opel takeover is unclear italian auto group fiat could shut down as many as five factories , including one in germany , as part of its plans to take over the european operations of struggling us auto giant , general motors . according to media reports that cite fiat 's proposal to the german government from earlier this week , the opel plant in kaiserslautern would cease operations under fiat .
plants in bochum and the opel headquarters at ruesselsheim would , according to the reports , be scaled down , as part of " project phoenix " .
one gm plant in england , one in austria , as well as two italian factories would also be part of the shutdown list , according to the reports .
however , this contradicts fiat ceo sergio marchionne 's denial earlier this week that any of opel 's four german plans would be closed . job cuts " inevitable " - no matter who takes over bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : opel employees ' fate is still very much up in the air armin schild , a member of opel 's supervisory board , said job cuts would be inevitable in a takeover of opel .
job cut plans are one of the key criteria on which the suitability of potential investors in opel will be judged , according to a checklist drawn up by vice-chancellor frank-walter steinmeier -lrb- spd -rrb- , who will is to challenge chancellor angela merkel -lrb- cdu -rrb- in september 's federal election .
schild , who represents labor union ig metall on the board , also said the austrian-canadian car parts maker magna has so far presented a more concrete takeover proposal .
media reports have said that possible partners for magna include russian carmaker gaz as well as russia 's sberbank .
gaz and its owner , billionaire oleg deripaska , have repeatedly denied interest .
general motors teeters on bridge of bankruptcy meanwhile , opel 's parent company , general motors , has announced a quarterly net loss of six billion dollars -lrb- 4.5 billion euros -rrb- - its eighth quarterly loss in a row .
it also announced a loss of 2 billion dollars -lrb- 1.5 billion euros -rrb- from its european operations .
revenue dropped by 47 percent , to 22.4 billion dollars .
gm , the largest us carmaker , is currently operating under a us federal bail-out plan .
it is threatened with bankruptcy , as has already happened to its competitor , chrysler .
us president barack obama has given gm an end-of-may deadline for a new restructuring plan to be implemented . cg / dpa , reuters / ap / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de fiat denies it plans to cut 18,000 jobs , close factories fiat has denied a german news report that it plans to cut 18,000 jobs and close 10 factories in europe , should it succeed in its bid to take over gm 's european operations .
-lrb- 06.05.2009 -rrb- fiat boss commits to opel plants in germany the head of italian automaker fiat , sergio marchionne , has said in an interview he wants to keep open all four opel plants in germany after a possible takeover of the struggling carmaker .
-lrb- 05.05.2009 -rrb- magna meets with guttenberg over possible opel deal representatives from the canadian-austrian car parts supplier have presented germany 's economics minister with a draft plan for bailing out opel .
but the troubled carmaker remains a bone of contention .
-lrb- 28.04.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live spectrum listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
berlin holds 47 percent of troubled hypo real estate -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 28.10.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de economy -pipe- 07.05.2009 berlin holds 47 percent of troubled hypo real estate großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : berlin 's buy up of shares has given the green light to nationalization the german government has announced it now holds more than 47 percent of the mortgage lender , hypo real estate , following its decision to take over the troubled lender . the government 's financial market stabilization fund , soffin , now holds a 47.31 percent share of munich-based hre , after the government 's bid to buy up shareholders ' stock .
the government 's offer , worth 290 million euros -lrb- $ 386 million -rrb- , expired at midnight monday .
each share had a cash offer of 1.39 euros .
in berlin , finance minister peer steinbrueck said he was pleased with the results of the share buy offer .
" this now means the government can continue with the planned takeover of hre shares , according to stock corporation law , " he said .
" only with the complete government takeover can hre 's survival be ensured and the taxpayers ' interests protected , " steinbrueck added . despite the fact that berlin failed to come up with 50 percent of shares , steinbrueck said that soffin could complete a takeover of the firm through means made available by german shareholder law .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : soffin 's rehm says hypo needs to be rescued to ensure the stabilty of germany 's economy hannes rehm , chairman of the soffin management committee , is optimistic that will happen : " we will consistently pursue our efforts to stabilize hre , " he said .
" the bank is of systemic relevance and must be rescued in order to ensure stability of the financial markets and the german economy .
i expect the envisaged capital increase to be approved by the extraordinary general meeting , " he added .
a capital increase is a type of equity issuance in which new stocks are offered for sale .
hre shareholders have been invited to the extraordinary general meeting on june 2 .
at the meeting , soffin will subscribe all of the new shares , excluding subscription rights of the shareholders .
this will give it a majority of 90 percent , as well as voting rights .
that will pave the way for a takeover of the shares held by the remaining minority shareholders - through a so-called " squeeze-out " procedure .
soffin does not expect the price to exceed the original offer price of 1.39 euros per share .
us private equity firm jc flowers & co , which rejects the government 's plans , still owns about 14 percent of hre . cg / rm , reuters / dp / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de nationalization is on the horizon for beleagered hypo real estate bank the german government has invested more than 100 billion euros in ailing mortgage lender hypo real estate bank to ensure it does n't collapse - now it wants total control .
-lrb- 05.05.2009 -rrb- hre to post more losses , takeover deadline looms as the german government and a us investment group battle over shares in the hypo real estate bank , it seems the struggling lender is still losing money .
-lrb- 04.05.2009 -rrb- flowers rejects government takeover bid for hre a major legal battle for the ownership of german bank hypo real estate is looming after a major investor rejected a bid from the german government .
-lrb- 30.04.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live made in germany we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live arts on the air listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
berlin holds 47 percent of troubled hypo real estate -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 19.01.2011 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de economy -pipe- 07.05.2009 berlin holds 47 percent of troubled hypo real estate großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : berlin 's buy up of shares has given the green light to nationalization the german government has announced it now holds more than 47 percent of the mortgage lender , hypo real estate , following its decision to take over the troubled lender . the government 's financial market stabilization fund , soffin , now holds a 47.31 percent share of munich-based hre , after the government 's bid to buy up shareholders ' stock .
the government 's offer , worth 290 million euros -lrb- $ 386 million -rrb- , expired at midnight monday .
each share had a cash offer of 1.39 euros .
in berlin , finance minister peer steinbrueck said he was pleased with the results of the share buy offer .
" this now means the government can continue with the planned takeover of hre shares , according to stock corporation law , " he said .
" only with the complete government takeover can hre 's survival be ensured and the taxpayers ' interests protected , " steinbrueck added . despite the fact that berlin failed to come up with 50 percent of shares , steinbrueck said that soffin could complete a takeover of the firm through means made available by german shareholder law .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : soffin 's rehm says hypo needs to be rescued to ensure the stabilty of germany 's economy hannes rehm , chairman of the soffin management committee , is optimistic that will happen : " we will consistently pursue our efforts to stabilize hre , " he said .
" the bank is of systemic relevance and must be rescued in order to ensure stability of the financial markets and the german economy .
i expect the envisaged capital increase to be approved by the extraordinary general meeting , " he added .
a capital increase is a type of equity issuance in which new stocks are offered for sale .
hre shareholders have been invited to the extraordinary general meeting on june 2 .
at the meeting , soffin will subscribe all of the new shares , excluding subscription rights of the shareholders .
this will give it a majority of 90 percent , as well as voting rights .
that will pave the way for a takeover of the shares held by the remaining minority shareholders - through a so-called " squeeze-out " procedure .
soffin does not expect the price to exceed the original offer price of 1.39 euros per share .
us private equity firm jc flowers & co , which rejects the government 's plans , still owns about 14 percent of hre . cg / rm , reuters / dp / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de nationalization is on the horizon for beleagered hypo real estate bank the german government has invested more than 100 billion euros in ailing mortgage lender hypo real estate bank to ensure it does n't collapse - now it wants total control .
-lrb- 05.05.2009 -rrb- hre to post more losses , takeover deadline looms as the german government and a us investment group battle over shares in the hypo real estate bank , it seems the struggling lender is still losing money .
-lrb- 04.05.2009 -rrb- flowers rejects government takeover bid for hre a major legal battle for the ownership of german bank hypo real estate is looming after a major investor rejected a bid from the german government .
-lrb- 30.04.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live motor mobil we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live spectrum listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
fiat reported to have plans to shut down german opel plant -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 10.11.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de auto industry -pipe- 07.05.2009 fiat reported to have plans to shut down german opel plant großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : at this stage , the road fiat plans to take in its proposed opel takeover is unclear italian auto group fiat could shut down as many as five factories , including one in germany , as part of its plans to take over the european operations of struggling us auto giant , general motors . according to media reports that cite fiat 's proposal to the german government from earlier this week , the opel plant in kaiserslautern would cease operations under fiat .
plants in bochum and the opel headquarters at ruesselsheim would , according to the reports , be scaled down , as part of " project phoenix " .
one gm plant in england , one in austria , as well as two italian factories would also be part of the shutdown list , according to the reports .
however , this contradicts fiat ceo sergio marchionne 's denial earlier this week that any of opel 's four german plans would be closed . job cuts " inevitable " - no matter who takes over bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : opel employees ' fate is still very much up in the air armin schild , a member of opel 's supervisory board , said job cuts would be inevitable in a takeover of opel .
job cut plans are one of the key criteria on which the suitability of potential investors in opel will be judged , according to a checklist drawn up by vice-chancellor frank-walter steinmeier -lrb- spd -rrb- , who will is to challenge chancellor angela merkel -lrb- cdu -rrb- in september 's federal election .
schild , who represents labor union ig metall on the board , also said the austrian-canadian car parts maker magna has so far presented a more concrete takeover proposal .
media reports have said that possible partners for magna include russian carmaker gaz as well as russia 's sberbank .
gaz and its owner , billionaire oleg deripaska , have repeatedly denied interest .
general motors teeters on bridge of bankruptcy meanwhile , opel 's parent company , general motors , has announced a quarterly net loss of six billion dollars -lrb- 4.5 billion euros -rrb- - its eighth quarterly loss in a row .
it also announced a loss of 2 billion dollars -lrb- 1.5 billion euros -rrb- from its european operations .
revenue dropped by 47 percent , to 22.4 billion dollars .
gm , the largest us carmaker , is currently operating under a us federal bail-out plan .
it is threatened with bankruptcy , as has already happened to its competitor , chrysler .
us president barack obama has given gm an end-of-may deadline for a new restructuring plan to be implemented . cg / dpa , reuters / ap / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de fiat denies it plans to cut 18,000 jobs , close factories fiat has denied a german news report that it plans to cut 18,000 jobs and close 10 factories in europe , should it succeed in its bid to take over gm 's european operations .
-lrb- 06.05.2009 -rrb- fiat boss commits to opel plants in germany the head of italian automaker fiat , sergio marchionne , has said in an interview he wants to keep open all four opel plants in germany after a possible takeover of the struggling carmaker .
-lrb- 05.05.2009 -rrb- magna meets with guttenberg over possible opel deal representatives from the canadian-austrian car parts supplier have presented germany 's economics minister with a draft plan for bailing out opel .
but the troubled carmaker remains a bone of contention .
-lrb- 28.04.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
obama wins pledge from afghan , pakistani leaders to confront militants -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 11.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de diplomacy -pipe- 07.05.2009 obama wins pledge from afghan , pakistani leaders to confront militants großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : obama warned of more violence in pakistan and afghanistan at the three-way summit president barack obama won a fresh promise from the leaders of pakistan and afghanistan on wednesday to work together to defeat al qaeda , and vowed he would make " every effort " to avoid civilian deaths . afghanistan 's hamid karzai and pakistan 's asif ali zardari came to washington after heavy criticism of their efforts to combat a taliban resurgence in their countries .
after their talks obama said both men " fully appreciate the seriousness of the threat " posed by al qaeda and their allies .
" the road ahead will be difficult .
there will be more violence and there will be setbacks , " obama said , with karzai and zardari at his side in the grand foyer of the white house .
" but let me be clear - the united states has not only made a lasting commitment to defeat al qaeda but also to support the democratically elected sovereign governments of both pakistan and afghanistan .
that commitment will not waiver and that support will be sustained . "
the obama administration has sharply criticized both karzai and zardari in the past , questioning their commitment and capability to tackle the threat from al qaeda and the taliban .
civilian casualties caused by us military operations in both countries , including drone strikes inside pakistan , have infuriated many afghans and pakistanis and made it harder for both countries ' leaders to cooperate with the united states .
military action earlier this week is believed to have caused dozens of civilian deaths with regional lawmakers and the international committee of the red cross reporting that as many as 100 people may have died in an operation in the bala boluk district of farah province in western afghanistan .
" we deeply , deeply regret that loss , " us secretary of state hillary clinton said of the civilian deaths before meeting karzai and zardari .
later she called that meeting " in some ways a breakthrough " and said she was " very optimistic " the process was making a difference .
obama announced a new approach to the fight against al qaeda in both countries in late march , offering more aid but also more than 20,000 extra troops to afghanistan this year .
pakistan 's zardari , who has been under fierce criticism for his response to taliban militants who have made inroads in the swat and buner valleys this year , pleaded for support for his fledgling democracy .
" my democracy needs attention and needs nurturing , " zardari said .
" pakistani democracy will deliver , the terrorists will be defeated by our joint struggle .
me , my friend president karzai and the united states ... will stand shoulder to shoulder with the world to fight this cancer and this threat . "
the pakistan government recently launched a major military offensive following pressure from the us to stop the advance of extremists in the region .
the islamist taliban says the offensive violates a peace deal it made with islamabad , which allowed the introduction of shariah law in the swat valley in exchange for a ceasefire .
on wednesday , pakistani security forces attacked taliban fighters in the swat valley , killing at least 64 of them after the united states called on the government to show its commitment to fighting militancy .
but the growing taliban influence in north-western pakistan has raised international concerns over the stability of the nuclear-armed country .
meanwhile in berlin , pakistani defence minister chaudry ahmad mukhtar has met with his german counterpart franz josef jung and asked for international help .
mukhtar said pakistan did not have the capacity to fight what he described as a " guerrilla war " in the north-west of the country . nrt , nk dpa / reuters / ap send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de obama to up pressure on , offer incentives to pakistan and afghanistan money for security - that 's the deal that us president barack obama is to offer his pakistani and afghan counterparts on wednesday .
a former german ambassador to pakistan talks us through a potentially historic meeting .
-lrb- 05.05.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic pakistani defence minister visits germany us president barack obama unveils a new afghan war strategy 9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
wto ruling the world trade organization rules that china 's export restrictions on raw materials are illegal .
watch the video cairo clashes cairo 's tahrir square is back in the headlines after violent clashes between protesters and police .
watch the video in depth focus on libya dw-world looks at the turmoil in libya : what it means for tripoli and the rest of the world .
international conference media representatives around the world gather in bonn to discuss human rights .
podcast series a german musician brings change with song and crowd funding .
download the report subscribe to the series on itunes past episodes learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
obama wins pledge from afghan , pakistani leaders to confront militants -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 09.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de diplomacy -pipe- 07.05.2009 obama wins pledge from afghan , pakistani leaders to confront militants großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : obama warned of more violence in pakistan and afghanistan at the three-way summit president barack obama won a fresh promise from the leaders of pakistan and afghanistan on wednesday to work together to defeat al qaeda , and vowed he would make " every effort " to avoid civilian deaths . afghanistan 's hamid karzai and pakistan 's asif ali zardari came to washington after heavy criticism of their efforts to combat a taliban resurgence in their countries .
after their talks obama said both men " fully appreciate the seriousness of the threat " posed by al qaeda and their allies .
" the road ahead will be difficult .
there will be more violence and there will be setbacks , " obama said , with karzai and zardari at his side in the grand foyer of the white house .
" but let me be clear - the united states has not only made a lasting commitment to defeat al qaeda but also to support the democratically elected sovereign governments of both pakistan and afghanistan .
that commitment will not waiver and that support will be sustained . "
the obama administration has sharply criticized both karzai and zardari in the past , questioning their commitment and capability to tackle the threat from al qaeda and the taliban .
civilian casualties caused by us military operations in both countries , including drone strikes inside pakistan , have infuriated many afghans and pakistanis and made it harder for both countries ' leaders to cooperate with the united states .
military action earlier this week is believed to have caused dozens of civilian deaths with regional lawmakers and the international committee of the red cross reporting that as many as 100 people may have died in an operation in the bala boluk district of farah province in western afghanistan .
" we deeply , deeply regret that loss , " us secretary of state hillary clinton said of the civilian deaths before meeting karzai and zardari .
later she called that meeting " in some ways a breakthrough " and said she was " very optimistic " the process was making a difference .
obama announced a new approach to the fight against al qaeda in both countries in late march , offering more aid but also more than 20,000 extra troops to afghanistan this year .
pakistan 's zardari , who has been under fierce criticism for his response to taliban militants who have made inroads in the swat and buner valleys this year , pleaded for support for his fledgling democracy .
" my democracy needs attention and needs nurturing , " zardari said .
" pakistani democracy will deliver , the terrorists will be defeated by our joint struggle .
me , my friend president karzai and the united states ... will stand shoulder to shoulder with the world to fight this cancer and this threat . "
the pakistan government recently launched a major military offensive following pressure from the us to stop the advance of extremists in the region .
the islamist taliban says the offensive violates a peace deal it made with islamabad , which allowed the introduction of shariah law in the swat valley in exchange for a ceasefire .
on wednesday , pakistani security forces attacked taliban fighters in the swat valley , killing at least 64 of them after the united states called on the government to show its commitment to fighting militancy .
but the growing taliban influence in north-western pakistan has raised international concerns over the stability of the nuclear-armed country .
meanwhile in berlin , pakistani defence minister chaudry ahmad mukhtar has met with his german counterpart franz josef jung and asked for international help .
mukhtar said pakistan did not have the capacity to fight what he described as a " guerrilla war " in the north-west of the country . nrt , nk dpa / reuters / ap send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de obama to up pressure on , offer incentives to pakistan and afghanistan money for security - that 's the deal that us president barack obama is to offer his pakistani and afghan counterparts on wednesday .
a former german ambassador to pakistan talks us through a potentially historic meeting .
-lrb- 05.05.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic pakistani defence minister visits germany us president barack obama unveils a new afghan war strategy 9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
security concerns there is a growing connection between security and natural resources .
listen to the interview podcast series life without the arts would be a lot less colorful , but guides like lukas help experience the arts .
download the podcast international conference media representatives around the world gather in bonn to discuss human rights .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
obama wins pledge from afghan , pakistani leaders to confront militants -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 26.10.2010 home news germany europe world from tierra del fuego to tijuana asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de diplomacy -pipe- 07.05.2009 obama wins pledge from afghan , pakistani leaders to confront militants großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : obama warned of more violence in pakistan and afghanistan at the three-way summit president barack obama won a fresh promise from the leaders of pakistan and afghanistan on wednesday to work together to defeat al qaeda , and vowed he would make " every effort " to avoid civilian deaths . afghanistan 's hamid karzai and pakistan 's asif ali zardari came to washington after heavy criticism of their efforts to combat a taliban resurgence in their countries .
after their talks obama said both men " fully appreciate the seriousness of the threat " posed by al qaeda and their allies .
" the road ahead will be difficult .
there will be more violence and there will be setbacks , " obama said , with karzai and zardari at his side in the grand foyer of the white house .
" but let me be clear - the united states has not only made a lasting commitment to defeat al qaeda but also to support the democratically elected sovereign governments of both pakistan and afghanistan .
that commitment will not waiver and that support will be sustained . "
the obama administration has sharply criticized both karzai and zardari in the past , questioning their commitment and capability to tackle the threat from al qaeda and the taliban .
civilian casualties caused by us military operations in both countries , including drone strikes inside pakistan , have infuriated many afghans and pakistanis and made it harder for both countries ' leaders to cooperate with the united states .
military action earlier this week is believed to have caused dozens of civilian deaths with regional lawmakers and the international committee of the red cross reporting that as many as 100 people may have died in an operation in the bala boluk district of farah province in western afghanistan .
" we deeply , deeply regret that loss , " us secretary of state hillary clinton said of the civilian deaths before meeting karzai and zardari .
later she called that meeting " in some ways a breakthrough " and said she was " very optimistic " the process was making a difference .
obama announced a new approach to the fight against al qaeda in both countries in late march , offering more aid but also more than 20,000 extra troops to afghanistan this year .
pakistan 's zardari , who has been under fierce criticism for his response to taliban militants who have made inroads in the swat and buner valleys this year , pleaded for support for his fledgling democracy .
" my democracy needs attention and needs nurturing , " zardari said .
" pakistani democracy will deliver , the terrorists will be defeated by our joint struggle .
me , my friend president karzai and the united states ... will stand shoulder to shoulder with the world to fight this cancer and this threat . "
the pakistan government recently launched a major military offensive following pressure from the us to stop the advance of extremists in the region .
the islamist taliban says the offensive violates a peace deal it made with islamabad , which allowed the introduction of shariah law in the swat valley in exchange for a ceasefire .
on wednesday , pakistani security forces attacked taliban fighters in the swat valley , killing at least 64 of them after the united states called on the government to show its commitment to fighting militancy .
but the growing taliban influence in north-western pakistan has raised international concerns over the stability of the nuclear-armed country .
meanwhile in berlin , pakistani defence minister chaudry ahmad mukhtar has met with his german counterpart franz josef jung and asked for international help .
mukhtar said pakistan did not have the capacity to fight what he described as a " guerrilla war " in the north-west of the country . nrt , nk dpa / reuters / ap send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de obama to up pressure on , offer incentives to pakistan and afghanistan money for security - that 's the deal that us president barack obama is to offer his pakistani and afghan counterparts on wednesday .
a former german ambassador to pakistan talks us through a potentially historic meeting .
-lrb- 05.05.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic pakistani defence minister visits germany us president barack obama unveils a new afghan war strategy feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live motor mobil we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live spectrum listen live us elections us president obama 's democratic party faces an uphill battle in the upcoming midterm elections .
watch the video learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan new web site check out deutsche welle 's new asia page in english .
dw asia online news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's newest media partner latin america take a multimedia journey discover the region and its people © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
obama wins pledge from afghan , pakistani leaders to confront militants -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 15.09.2010 home news germany europe world from tierra del fuego to tijuana asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de diplomacy -pipe- 07.05.2009 obama wins pledge from afghan , pakistani leaders to confront militants großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : obama warned of more violence in pakistan and afghanistan at the three-way summit president barack obama won a fresh promise from the leaders of pakistan and afghanistan on wednesday to work together to defeat al qaeda , and vowed he would make " every effort " to avoid civilian deaths . afghanistan 's hamid karzai and pakistan 's asif ali zardari came to washington after heavy criticism of their efforts to combat a taliban resurgence in their countries .
after their talks obama said both men " fully appreciate the seriousness of the threat " posed by al qaeda and their allies .
" the road ahead will be difficult .
there will be more violence and there will be setbacks , " obama said , with karzai and zardari at his side in the grand foyer of the white house .
" but let me be clear - the united states has not only made a lasting commitment to defeat al qaeda but also to support the democratically elected sovereign governments of both pakistan and afghanistan .
that commitment will not waiver and that support will be sustained . "
the obama administration has sharply criticized both karzai and zardari in the past , questioning their commitment and capability to tackle the threat from al qaeda and the taliban .
civilian casualties caused by us military operations in both countries , including drone strikes inside pakistan , have infuriated many afghans and pakistanis and made it harder for both countries ' leaders to cooperate with the united states .
military action earlier this week is believed to have caused dozens of civilian deaths with regional lawmakers and the international committee of the red cross reporting that as many as 100 people may have died in an operation in the bala boluk district of farah province in western afghanistan .
" we deeply , deeply regret that loss , " us secretary of state hillary clinton said of the civilian deaths before meeting karzai and zardari .
later she called that meeting " in some ways a breakthrough " and said she was " very optimistic " the process was making a difference .
obama announced a new approach to the fight against al qaeda in both countries in late march , offering more aid but also more than 20,000 extra troops to afghanistan this year .
pakistan 's zardari , who has been under fierce criticism for his response to taliban militants who have made inroads in the swat and buner valleys this year , pleaded for support for his fledgling democracy .
" my democracy needs attention and needs nurturing , " zardari said .
" pakistani democracy will deliver , the terrorists will be defeated by our joint struggle .
me , my friend president karzai and the united states ... will stand shoulder to shoulder with the world to fight this cancer and this threat . "
the pakistan government recently launched a major military offensive following pressure from the us to stop the advance of extremists in the region .
the islamist taliban says the offensive violates a peace deal it made with islamabad , which allowed the introduction of shariah law in the swat valley in exchange for a ceasefire .
on wednesday , pakistani security forces attacked taliban fighters in the swat valley , killing at least 64 of them after the united states called on the government to show its commitment to fighting militancy .
but the growing taliban influence in north-western pakistan has raised international concerns over the stability of the nuclear-armed country .
meanwhile in berlin , pakistani defence minister chaudry ahmad mukhtar has met with his german counterpart franz josef jung and asked for international help .
mukhtar said pakistan did not have the capacity to fight what he described as a " guerrilla war " in the north-west of the country . nrt , nk dpa / reuters / ap send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de obama to up pressure on , offer incentives to pakistan and afghanistan money for security - that 's the deal that us president barack obama is to offer his pakistani and afghan counterparts on wednesday .
a former german ambassador to pakistan talks us through a potentially historic meeting .
-lrb- 05.05.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic pakistani defence minister visits germany us president barack obama unveils a new afghan war strategy feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live made in germany we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live spectrum listen live more talks fresh from their us talks , israelis and palestinians meet again on their elusive quest for peace .
watch the video afghan elections the us commander in afghanistan , general petraeus , wants more nato troops ahead of elections .
watch the video learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan new web site check out deutsche welle 's new asia page in english .
dw asia online news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's newest media partner latin america take a multimedia journey discover the region and its people © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
berlin holds 47 percent of troubled hypo real estate -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 02.12.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de economy -pipe- 07.05.2009 berlin holds 47 percent of troubled hypo real estate großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : berlin 's buy up of shares has given the green light to nationalization the german government has announced it now holds more than 47 percent of the mortgage lender , hypo real estate , following its decision to take over the troubled lender . the government 's financial market stabilization fund , soffin , now holds a 47.31 percent share of munich-based hre , after the government 's bid to buy up shareholders ' stock .
the government 's offer , worth 290 million euros -lrb- $ 386 million -rrb- , expired at midnight monday .
each share had a cash offer of 1.39 euros .
in berlin , finance minister peer steinbrueck said he was pleased with the results of the share buy offer .
" this now means the government can continue with the planned takeover of hre shares , according to stock corporation law , " he said .
" only with the complete government takeover can hre 's survival be ensured and the taxpayers ' interests protected , " steinbrueck added . despite the fact that berlin failed to come up with 50 percent of shares , steinbrueck said that soffin could complete a takeover of the firm through means made available by german shareholder law .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : soffin 's rehm says hypo needs to be rescued to ensure the stabilty of germany 's economy hannes rehm , chairman of the soffin management committee , is optimistic that will happen : " we will consistently pursue our efforts to stabilize hre , " he said .
" the bank is of systemic relevance and must be rescued in order to ensure stability of the financial markets and the german economy .
i expect the envisaged capital increase to be approved by the extraordinary general meeting , " he added .
a capital increase is a type of equity issuance in which new stocks are offered for sale .
hre shareholders have been invited to the extraordinary general meeting on june 2 .
at the meeting , soffin will subscribe all of the new shares , excluding subscription rights of the shareholders .
this will give it a majority of 90 percent , as well as voting rights .
that will pave the way for a takeover of the shares held by the remaining minority shareholders - through a so-called " squeeze-out " procedure .
soffin does not expect the price to exceed the original offer price of 1.39 euros per share .
us private equity firm jc flowers & co , which rejects the government 's plans , still owns about 14 percent of hre . cg / rm , reuters / dp / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de nationalization is on the horizon for beleagered hypo real estate bank the german government has invested more than 100 billion euros in ailing mortgage lender hypo real estate bank to ensure it does n't collapse - now it wants total control .
-lrb- 05.05.2009 -rrb- hre to post more losses , takeover deadline looms as the german government and a us investment group battle over shares in the hypo real estate bank , it seems the struggling lender is still losing money .
-lrb- 04.05.2009 -rrb- flowers rejects government takeover bid for hre a major legal battle for the ownership of german bank hypo real estate is looming after a major investor rejected a bid from the german government .
-lrb- 30.04.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
travel passau is called the three river city , but it is just as famous for its baroque splendor .
passau - baroque facades and vibrant arts watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
berlin holds 47 percent of troubled hypo real estate -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 16.09.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de economy -pipe- 07.05.2009 berlin holds 47 percent of troubled hypo real estate großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : berlin 's buy up of shares has given the green light to nationalization the german government has announced it now holds more than 47 percent of the mortgage lender , hypo real estate , following its decision to take over the troubled lender . the government 's financial market stabilization fund , soffin , now holds a 47.31 percent share of munich-based hre , after the government 's bid to buy up shareholders ' stock .
the government 's offer , worth 290 million euros -lrb- $ 386 million -rrb- , expired at midnight monday .
each share had a cash offer of 1.39 euros .
in berlin , finance minister peer steinbrueck said he was pleased with the results of the share buy offer .
" this now means the government can continue with the planned takeover of hre shares , according to stock corporation law , " he said .
" only with the complete government takeover can hre 's survival be ensured and the taxpayers ' interests protected , " steinbrueck added . despite the fact that berlin failed to come up with 50 percent of shares , steinbrueck said that soffin could complete a takeover of the firm through means made available by german shareholder law .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : soffin 's rehm says hypo needs to be rescued to ensure the stabilty of germany 's economy hannes rehm , chairman of the soffin management committee , is optimistic that will happen : " we will consistently pursue our efforts to stabilize hre , " he said .
" the bank is of systemic relevance and must be rescued in order to ensure stability of the financial markets and the german economy .
i expect the envisaged capital increase to be approved by the extraordinary general meeting , " he added .
a capital increase is a type of equity issuance in which new stocks are offered for sale .
hre shareholders have been invited to the extraordinary general meeting on june 2 .
at the meeting , soffin will subscribe all of the new shares , excluding subscription rights of the shareholders .
this will give it a majority of 90 percent , as well as voting rights .
that will pave the way for a takeover of the shares held by the remaining minority shareholders - through a so-called " squeeze-out " procedure .
soffin does not expect the price to exceed the original offer price of 1.39 euros per share .
us private equity firm jc flowers & co , which rejects the government 's plans , still owns about 14 percent of hre . cg / rm , reuters / dp / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de nationalization is on the horizon for beleagered hypo real estate bank the german government has invested more than 100 billion euros in ailing mortgage lender hypo real estate bank to ensure it does n't collapse - now it wants total control .
-lrb- 05.05.2009 -rrb- hre to post more losses , takeover deadline looms as the german government and a us investment group battle over shares in the hypo real estate bank , it seems the struggling lender is still losing money .
-lrb- 04.05.2009 -rrb- flowers rejects government takeover bid for hre a major legal battle for the ownership of german bank hypo real estate is looming after a major investor rejected a bid from the german government .
-lrb- 30.04.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live in good shape we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live living planet environment matters from around the world listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
obama wins pledge from afghan , pakistani leaders to confront militants -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 30.11.2010 home news germany europe world from tierra del fuego to tijuana asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de diplomacy -pipe- 07.05.2009 obama wins pledge from afghan , pakistani leaders to confront militants großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : obama warned of more violence in pakistan and afghanistan at the three-way summit president barack obama won a fresh promise from the leaders of pakistan and afghanistan on wednesday to work together to defeat al qaeda , and vowed he would make " every effort " to avoid civilian deaths . afghanistan 's hamid karzai and pakistan 's asif ali zardari came to washington after heavy criticism of their efforts to combat a taliban resurgence in their countries .
after their talks obama said both men " fully appreciate the seriousness of the threat " posed by al qaeda and their allies .
" the road ahead will be difficult .
there will be more violence and there will be setbacks , " obama said , with karzai and zardari at his side in the grand foyer of the white house .
" but let me be clear - the united states has not only made a lasting commitment to defeat al qaeda but also to support the democratically elected sovereign governments of both pakistan and afghanistan .
that commitment will not waiver and that support will be sustained . "
the obama administration has sharply criticized both karzai and zardari in the past , questioning their commitment and capability to tackle the threat from al qaeda and the taliban .
civilian casualties caused by us military operations in both countries , including drone strikes inside pakistan , have infuriated many afghans and pakistanis and made it harder for both countries ' leaders to cooperate with the united states .
military action earlier this week is believed to have caused dozens of civilian deaths with regional lawmakers and the international committee of the red cross reporting that as many as 100 people may have died in an operation in the bala boluk district of farah province in western afghanistan .
" we deeply , deeply regret that loss , " us secretary of state hillary clinton said of the civilian deaths before meeting karzai and zardari .
later she called that meeting " in some ways a breakthrough " and said she was " very optimistic " the process was making a difference .
obama announced a new approach to the fight against al qaeda in both countries in late march , offering more aid but also more than 20,000 extra troops to afghanistan this year .
pakistan 's zardari , who has been under fierce criticism for his response to taliban militants who have made inroads in the swat and buner valleys this year , pleaded for support for his fledgling democracy .
" my democracy needs attention and needs nurturing , " zardari said .
" pakistani democracy will deliver , the terrorists will be defeated by our joint struggle .
me , my friend president karzai and the united states ... will stand shoulder to shoulder with the world to fight this cancer and this threat . "
the pakistan government recently launched a major military offensive following pressure from the us to stop the advance of extremists in the region .
the islamist taliban says the offensive violates a peace deal it made with islamabad , which allowed the introduction of shariah law in the swat valley in exchange for a ceasefire .
on wednesday , pakistani security forces attacked taliban fighters in the swat valley , killing at least 64 of them after the united states called on the government to show its commitment to fighting militancy .
but the growing taliban influence in north-western pakistan has raised international concerns over the stability of the nuclear-armed country .
meanwhile in berlin , pakistani defence minister chaudry ahmad mukhtar has met with his german counterpart franz josef jung and asked for international help .
mukhtar said pakistan did not have the capacity to fight what he described as a " guerrilla war " in the north-west of the country . nrt , nk dpa / reuters / ap send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de obama to up pressure on , offer incentives to pakistan and afghanistan money for security - that 's the deal that us president barack obama is to offer his pakistani and afghan counterparts on wednesday .
a former german ambassador to pakistan talks us through a potentially historic meeting .
-lrb- 05.05.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic pakistani defence minister visits germany us president barack obama unveils a new afghan war strategy feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live global 3000 we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inspired minds one to one with composer brett dean listen live learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan new web site check out deutsche welle 's new asia page in english .
dw asia online latin america take a multimedia journey discover the region and its people news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's newest media partner © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
prague summit to launch " eastern partnership " -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 11.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de european ties -pipe- 07.05.2009 prague summit to launch " eastern partnership " großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the " eastern partnership " is the brain child of poland and sweden good neighborhood policy is normally on the agenda of the eu rotating presidency .
but the nation at the helm determines which neighbors take priority .
that sweden takes over soon is good news for the eu 's eastern flank . when france was in charge during the second half of 2008 , president nicolas sarkozy made relations with his country 's mediterranean rim neighbors the cornerstone of his six month eu presidency .
membership in sarkozy 's " club med " was based on sharing a common mediterranean coastline , so morocco , turkey , israel and syria met the geographical criteria .
the idea was to provide an eu-mediterranean forum for tackling regional issues such as illegal boat migration from africa , combating terrorism and cleaning up the polluted sea .
the mediterranean union 's inaugural summit last july represented a milestone in bringing the heads of state of israel and its middle east adversaries together in paris , but the french eu initiative had already lost steam by the start of the czech republic 's presidency in january 2009 .
now with less than two months left of prague 's beleaguered eu presidency , the 27 nation bloc 's priorities have shifted northwards and eastwards geographically .
czech prime minister mirek topolanek was ousted last month and will be replaced on may 8 by an interim government .
topolanek 's successor jan fischer takes over the day after the eu launches its " eastern partnership " -lrb- ep -rrb- with six post-soviet states- armenia , azerbaijan , belarus , georgia , moldova and ukraine- at a summit in prague on may 7 .
eu wants stable eastern neighbors bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : eu commission president jose manuel barroso and his commissioners do n't want a new " iron curtain " eu officials say that the goal of the initiative is to help stabilize and modernize the states created from the break-up of the former soviet union by bringing in free markets and pro-democracy reforms .
the russia-georgia war last august over the breakaway province of south ossetia further underscored the eu 's need to " engage more deeply with its eastern neighbors to stabilize the region , " says sabine fischer , a russia and cis expert at the eu institute for security studies -lrb- euiss -rrb- in paris . then there is belarus , formerly called belorussia or white russia , which the eu has long regarded as the black sheep of the post-soviet cis states .
its president alexander lukashenko , who earned the reputation of being " europe 's last dictator " for his government 's dubious human rights record , had even been placed under an eu travel ban , which was lifted last october .
but now that lukaschenko has said he wants to normalize " difficult " relations with the eu , belarus has been invited to participate in the prague summit on a technical level .
however lukaschenko himself will not attend the summit sending instead his deputy vladimir semachko .
russia makes some noise bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : russian foreign minister sergey lavrov speaks out at last month 's annual brussels forum meeting in brussels since belarus is one of the kremlin 's closest allies , russia foreign minister sergei lavrov expressed his dismay over the eastern partnership at a meeting with eu diplomats in luxembourg on april 28 , saying that " any processes leading to developments within the eu … should ensure no overlap in the post-soviet area . " although moscow 's political leaders see an encroachment on their former " sphere of influence " , their bark is louder than their bite , according to russia analysts .
" russia 's political leadership does not really feel threatened by the eu 's rapprochement with the post-soviet states , " said fischer .
" its leaders are more relaxed with the eu , as opposed to nato , " she added .
stefan meister of the german council on foreign relations -lrb- dgap -rrb- who sees the eastern partnership as a regional grouping similar to the mediterranean union , thinks that lavrov might have felt slighted by being left out of the new initiative .
" but he also understands that this can be a typical eu initiative with a lot of talk , but maybe not much happening , " he said .
extension of existing eu structure the eastern partnership , which would be embedded in an existing structure called the european neighbourhood policy -lrb- enp -rrb- , emerged last year as the brainchild of poland and sweden .
enp was created in 2004 when the eu expanded eastwards to include the former soviet satellite states in the bloc , whose membership jumped from 15 to 25 .
romania and bulgaria later joined the eu in 2007 .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : south ossetian separatist fighters celebrate russian recognition of the breakaway georgian territories of south ossetia and abkhazia its initial objective was to minimize the impact of a new iron curtain between the enlarged eu and the neighboring post-soviet states even further east , by offering a privileged partnership based on a commitment to democratic values and market principles .
the eastern partnership builds up a stronger regional dimension that goes further than the enp , says oksana antonenko , a senior russia analyst at the international institute for strategic studies in london .
enp offers bilateral relations with all countries that border the entire eu by land and sea , including the mediterranean union countries , whereas the ep is a multilateral agreement involving only six countries , she explained .
" the ep opens the door to potentially deeper multi-speed integration with the eu on matters such as visa-free travel or free trade , " said antonenko , who explained that member states could keep progressing to a higher level of cooperation with the eu " a la carte " on a specific issue .
not a stepping stone to join the eu the partnership offers carrots to encourage political and economic reforms , but it is not a stepping stone to eventual eu membership , says dgap 's meister , who characterizes the ep as an alternative to joining the eu .
" it brings the six -lrb- cis -rrb- states closer to the value system of the eu and offers them something like a customs union , but maybe not what they really want - the perspective of eu membership down the road , " he said .
ukraine is eager to join the eu club , but the bloc is suffering from enlargement fatigue and the lisbon treaty , that is supposed to streamline decision-making , still hangs in the balance . one of the lisbon treaty 's goals is to create a more permanent eu presidency filled by a high profile politician for a period of two-and-a-half years to replace the current six month rotating system . when the czech term ends at the end of june , the swedes will take over , a stroke of luck for the eastern partnership , according to fischer .
" the swedes are going to put a strong emphasis on this -lrb- northeastern -rrb- region , " she said .
" after all , the ep was their initiative . " author : diana fong editor : susan houlton send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ? 9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
wto ruling the world trade organization rules that china 's export restrictions on raw materials are illegal .
watch the video cairo clashes cairo 's tahrir square is back in the headlines after violent clashes between protesters and police .
watch the video in depth focus on libya dw-world looks at the turmoil in libya : what it means for tripoli and the rest of the world .
international conference media representatives around the world gather in bonn to discuss human rights .
podcast series a german musician brings change with song and crowd funding .
download the report subscribe to the series on itunes past episodes learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
eu approves commerzbank bailout -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de banking -pipe- 07.05.2009 eu approves commerzbank bailout großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : commerzbank was the first german bank to tap into the government 's rescue fund brussels has approved an 18-billion-euro government bailout of germany ’ s second largest bank .
the eu had requested assurances that the money will not give the bank an unfair edge over competitors . part of the money is already on commerzbank 's balance sheets after berlin injected 8 billion euros -lrb- $ 10.6 billion -rrb- into the bank in december last year .
now , commerzbank stands to receive another 10 billion euros of fresh capital .
berlin however needed the approval of brussels and on thursday the eu commission gave its green light .
" on the basis of the notified plans , the commission is satisfied that commerzbank 's long term viability has been demonstrated , and that the aid is kept to the minimum and will not lead to undue distortions of competition .
it has therefore declared the aid compatible , " the eu executive said in a statement .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : frankfurt 's skyline of bank headquarters was rocked by the global finacial crisis but the government aid will be tied to strict restructuring conditions .
commerzbank will have to sell its eurohypo unit , a major european player in the real estate business .
in addition , the bank will be banned for three years from buying other financial institutes that it competes with .
commerzbank , which is germany 's second largest private bank with a balance sheet total of 1,100 billion euros of capital , ran into financial trouble as a result of the global credit crunch .
berlin has welcomed the decision from brussels .
a government spokeswoman said it was " an important step to strengthen the trust in the government 's bailout fund . "
in the wake of the global financial crisis , germany has created a 470-billion-euro rescue fund to support the struggling sector . ai / rm , dpa / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de conditions for commerzbank aid package appear to be set the european commission has set conditions for commerzbank to get an 18 billion euros -lrb- $ 23 billion -rrb- rescue package from the german government .
the bank is expected to shed its eurohypo unit .
-lrb- 22.04.2009 -rrb- german government takes large stake in commerzbank the german government has agreed to take a 25-percent share in commerzbank .
the move signals the first time the government has taken a stake in a major private bank and comes as commerzbank is set to buy dresdner bank .
-lrb- 09.01.2009 -rrb- merkel seeks to make bank bailouts more attractive germany 's rescue package for struggling banks may be in for a revamp to make it more appealing to financial institutions that have so far rejected it , german media reported tuesday .
-lrb- 02.12.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week world a global player dw takes a look at china 's rising political influence that has accompanied its economic growth .
labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live popxport we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live hits in germany pop from the german top 100 listen live stock exchange today in history 1949 : election of the first federal president © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german language lover on quest to save " chinglish " -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 11.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle music art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de from the fringe -pipe- 07.05.2009 german language lover on quest to save " chinglish " großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : just one of the thousands of examples to be found in china a german multimedia producer is working hard to preserve chinglish – china 's special version of english – for future generations . for 32-year-old oliver radtke , his fascination with chinglish began in 2000 , when he noticed a sign while in a shanghai taxi : " do n't forget to carry your thing , " it said .
since then , he has published two books on the subject . most recently , " more chinglish - speaking in tongues , " which hit shelves in april . he also maintains a popular online blog .
there is a view held by many in china , and not least by the authorities , that chinglish is an embarrassment that must be wiped out at all costs .
radtke disagrees .
he says the " language " should be preserved .
" there is a lot in chinglish that is so much more than just incompetent english or incorrect english , " he said .
" a lot of the chinglish signs carry a certain chinese notion in them which enriches the english language and makes english more chinese in the sense that there is a certain chinese flavor , a certain chinese way of thinking . "
radtke focuses on written examples of the lingo on signboards , menu cards and shop fronts .
some signs highlighted in his books are decidedly politically incorrect - " cripple 's lane , " rather than " wheelchair path , " or " deformed man toilet , " instead of " handicapped restroom . "
others are more poetic , such as one sign reminding visitors to one section of the great wall of china to be careful : " do not forget the fire is heartless . "
chinese citizens warming to " chinglish " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : oliver 's book " welcome to presence " " the initial reaction of many chinese users was very much against the project .
they thought i was making fun of them , " radtke said .
but he says the chinese are increasingly supportive of his efforts , and many have come to understand that he believes chinglish is in fact enriching the english language .
radtke , as a german , believes the entire notion of one single , standard version of english is outdated because it now has far more than one billion regular users worldwide , and a rapidly growing number speak it as their second language .
in recent years , china has kicked off campaigns to root out poor english grammar and misused vocabulary in official usage .
much to radtke 's horror , the most famous of these drives took place in beijing prior to the olympic games in august last year .
during that time , authorities rechristened the dongda proctology hospital , formerly the dongda anus hospital .
however radtke maintains these campaigns will never fully succeed .
he 's optimistic that chinglish will never disappear from the mainstream .
" i 'm pessimistic when it comes to official signs in the big cities .
but restaurants , companies , private institutions , small shop owners will all produce a lot of chinglish , " he says . cg , dfm afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de eu to english speakers : put your mouth where the money is the european union wants native english speakers to put their mouths where the money is : translation work .
the bloc , which has 23 official languages , is sending out an urgent youtube plea for more english translators .
-lrb- 19.02.2009 -rrb- immigrants help create new type of german language in multicultural urban areas of germany , a new variant of german has evolved with its own grammar and rhythm .
this ethnolect is spoken among young migrants of various ethnic backgrounds as well as young native germans .
-lrb- 08.12.2007 -rrb- wanderlust sends german words traveling what do autobahn , fest , flugelhorn , angst and gesundheit all have in common ?
you guessed it : they all come from the language of goethe , thomas mann and rammstein .
you know more german words than you think you do .
-lrb- 08.08.2006 -rrb- 9799 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
twitter follow dw culture keep up on europe 's culture and lifestyle scene .
culture calendar july happenings from wagner to world music - find out what 's going on in germany 's cultural scene .
podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's free podcast series .
somewhere between poet and singer : meet hans unstern ' german pop ' homepage word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
view from my window radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
soundscape 100 concert hour arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german language lover on quest to save " chinglish " -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 09.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle music art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de from the fringe -pipe- 07.05.2009 german language lover on quest to save " chinglish " großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : just one of the thousands of examples to be found in china a german multimedia producer is working hard to preserve chinglish – china 's special version of english – for future generations . for 32-year-old oliver radtke , his fascination with chinglish began in 2000 , when he noticed a sign while in a shanghai taxi : " do n't forget to carry your thing , " it said .
since then , he has published two books on the subject . most recently , " more chinglish - speaking in tongues , " which hit shelves in april . he also maintains a popular online blog .
there is a view held by many in china , and not least by the authorities , that chinglish is an embarrassment that must be wiped out at all costs .
radtke disagrees .
he says the " language " should be preserved .
" there is a lot in chinglish that is so much more than just incompetent english or incorrect english , " he said .
" a lot of the chinglish signs carry a certain chinese notion in them which enriches the english language and makes english more chinese in the sense that there is a certain chinese flavor , a certain chinese way of thinking . "
radtke focuses on written examples of the lingo on signboards , menu cards and shop fronts .
some signs highlighted in his books are decidedly politically incorrect - " cripple 's lane , " rather than " wheelchair path , " or " deformed man toilet , " instead of " handicapped restroom . "
others are more poetic , such as one sign reminding visitors to one section of the great wall of china to be careful : " do not forget the fire is heartless . "
chinese citizens warming to " chinglish " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : oliver 's book " welcome to presence " " the initial reaction of many chinese users was very much against the project .
they thought i was making fun of them , " radtke said .
but he says the chinese are increasingly supportive of his efforts , and many have come to understand that he believes chinglish is in fact enriching the english language .
radtke , as a german , believes the entire notion of one single , standard version of english is outdated because it now has far more than one billion regular users worldwide , and a rapidly growing number speak it as their second language .
in recent years , china has kicked off campaigns to root out poor english grammar and misused vocabulary in official usage .
much to radtke 's horror , the most famous of these drives took place in beijing prior to the olympic games in august last year .
during that time , authorities rechristened the dongda proctology hospital , formerly the dongda anus hospital .
however radtke maintains these campaigns will never fully succeed .
he 's optimistic that chinglish will never disappear from the mainstream .
" i 'm pessimistic when it comes to official signs in the big cities .
but restaurants , companies , private institutions , small shop owners will all produce a lot of chinglish , " he says . cg , dfm afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de eu to english speakers : put your mouth where the money is the european union wants native english speakers to put their mouths where the money is : translation work .
the bloc , which has 23 official languages , is sending out an urgent youtube plea for more english translators .
-lrb- 19.02.2009 -rrb- immigrants help create new type of german language in multicultural urban areas of germany , a new variant of german has evolved with its own grammar and rhythm .
this ethnolect is spoken among young migrants of various ethnic backgrounds as well as young native germans .
-lrb- 08.12.2007 -rrb- wanderlust sends german words traveling what do autobahn , fest , flugelhorn , angst and gesundheit all have in common ?
you guessed it : they all come from the language of goethe , thomas mann and rammstein .
you know more german words than you think you do .
-lrb- 08.08.2006 -rrb- 9799 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
twitter follow dw culture keep up on europe 's culture and lifestyle scene .
travel take a close-up look at some of europe 's most exciting cities .
oxford , britain schwerin , germany las palmas , spain reykjavik , iceland darmstadt , germany podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's new free podcast .
' clip ' homepage clip no. 13 - get back to basics with the singer-songwriter rock of the alin coen band subscribe on itunes get the rss feed word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
soundscape 100 concert hour arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
steinmeier urges israeli counterpart to accept two-state plan -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.10.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de israel -pipe- 07.05.2009 steinmeier urges israeli counterpart to accept two-state plan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lieberman has been making his first official visit to berlin while in berlin , israel 's foreign minister has left a cloud over the mideast peace process , calling it a waste of money . israeli foreign minister avigdor lieberman has left german parliamentarians pessimistic about the future of the middle east peace process .
in berlin , the last stop of his four-day european tour , the right-wing minister refused to commit to a two-state solution for israel and the palestinian territories .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lieberman -lrb- right -rrb- with ruprecht polenz , chairman of the foreign affairs committee during talks with members of the german parliamentary foreign affairs committee lieberman said the peace process had been little more than a waste of money .
he also brought up iran , saying the country was a major threat .
later in the day , lieberman paid his respects at berlin 's holocaust memorial , laying a wreath at the 19,000-square-meter monument in the center of berlin .
lieberman later held talks with german interior minister wolfgang schaeuble , followed by dinner with his german counterpart frank-walter steinmeier .
germany 's top diplomat urged the controversial israeli foreign minister to adopt a two-state plan as the basis for peace in the middle east and the " sole path to peace and security . "
steinmeier emphasized that the german government expected the new israeli administration under prime minister benjamin netanyahu would abide with previous peace commitments .
the german minister said it was important to stregthen moderate forces in the region and actively involve them in the peace process .
with regard to the situation in the gaza strip , steinmeier said it was imperative that palestinians had access to aid supplies .
the israeli foreign minister , who heads a nationalist party in prime minister benjamin netanyahu 's coalition , caused a stir on his first day in office , when he announced that israel was no longer bound by the so-called annapolis peace process , which formed the basis of the israeli-palestinian peace talks in 2008 .
lieberman 's european visit - which has included meetings in rome , paris and european union talks in prague - was mostly conducted out of the media eye .
in berlin , no joint press conference or photo call was scheduled for his meeting with steinmeier .
this echoed lieberman 's reception in france , where foreign minister bernard kouchner chose not to hold a joint press conference as had been customary when lieberman 's predecessor tzipi livni came to paris . ch / pfd / nrt , rtr / dpa / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de merkel says " no alternative " to two-state solution in middle east german chancellor angela merkel has said there is no alternative to a two-state solution to the mideast crisis following talks in berlin on wednesday with jordan 's king abdullah ii .
-lrb- 06.05.2009 -rrb- netanyahu demands that palestinians recognize israel as jewish state israeli prime minister benjamin netanyahu has demanded palestinians recognize israel as a jewish state .
the call was made during his meeting with the visiting us special envoy to the middle east , george mitchell .
-lrb- 16.04.2009 -rrb- opinion : labour decision to join likud harms hopes for peace israeli labour party head ehud barack 's decision to take part in a government led by hardliner benjamin netanyahu is a disservice to the labour party and , more importantly , to hopes for peace , writes dw 's peter philipp .
-lrb- 25.03.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live global 3000 we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
steinmeier urges israeli counterpart to accept two-state plan -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.01.2011 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de israel -pipe- 07.05.2009 steinmeier urges israeli counterpart to accept two-state plan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lieberman has been making his first official visit to berlin while in berlin , israel 's foreign minister has left a cloud over the mideast peace process , calling it a waste of money . israeli foreign minister avigdor lieberman has left german parliamentarians pessimistic about the future of the middle east peace process .
in berlin , the last stop of his four-day european tour , the right-wing minister refused to commit to a two-state solution for israel and the palestinian territories .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lieberman -lrb- right -rrb- with ruprecht polenz , chairman of the foreign affairs committee during talks with members of the german parliamentary foreign affairs committee lieberman said the peace process had been little more than a waste of money .
he also brought up iran , saying the country was a major threat .
later in the day , lieberman paid his respects at berlin 's holocaust memorial , laying a wreath at the 19,000-square-meter monument in the center of berlin .
lieberman later held talks with german interior minister wolfgang schaeuble , followed by dinner with his german counterpart frank-walter steinmeier .
germany 's top diplomat urged the controversial israeli foreign minister to adopt a two-state plan as the basis for peace in the middle east and the " sole path to peace and security . "
steinmeier emphasized that the german government expected the new israeli administration under prime minister benjamin netanyahu would abide with previous peace commitments .
the german minister said it was important to stregthen moderate forces in the region and actively involve them in the peace process .
with regard to the situation in the gaza strip , steinmeier said it was imperative that palestinians had access to aid supplies .
the israeli foreign minister , who heads a nationalist party in prime minister benjamin netanyahu 's coalition , caused a stir on his first day in office , when he announced that israel was no longer bound by the so-called annapolis peace process , which formed the basis of the israeli-palestinian peace talks in 2008 .
lieberman 's european visit - which has included meetings in rome , paris and european union talks in prague - was mostly conducted out of the media eye .
in berlin , no joint press conference or photo call was scheduled for his meeting with steinmeier .
this echoed lieberman 's reception in france , where foreign minister bernard kouchner chose not to hold a joint press conference as had been customary when lieberman 's predecessor tzipi livni came to paris . ch / pfd / nrt , rtr / dpa / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de merkel says " no alternative " to two-state solution in middle east german chancellor angela merkel has said there is no alternative to a two-state solution to the mideast crisis following talks in berlin on wednesday with jordan 's king abdullah ii .
-lrb- 06.05.2009 -rrb- netanyahu demands that palestinians recognize israel as jewish state israeli prime minister benjamin netanyahu has demanded palestinians recognize israel as a jewish state .
the call was made during his meeting with the visiting us special envoy to the middle east , george mitchell .
-lrb- 16.04.2009 -rrb- opinion : labour decision to join likud harms hopes for peace israeli labour party head ehud barack 's decision to take part in a government led by hardliner benjamin netanyahu is a disservice to the labour party and , more importantly , to hopes for peace , writes dw 's peter philipp .
-lrb- 25.03.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live hits in germany the latest from germany 's top 100 listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
steinmeier urges israeli counterpart to accept two-state plan -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 15.09.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de israel -pipe- 07.05.2009 steinmeier urges israeli counterpart to accept two-state plan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lieberman has been making his first official visit to berlin while in berlin , israel 's foreign minister has left a cloud over the mideast peace process , calling it a waste of money . israeli foreign minister avigdor lieberman has left german parliamentarians pessimistic about the future of the middle east peace process .
in berlin , the last stop of his four-day european tour , the right-wing minister refused to commit to a two-state solution for israel and the palestinian territories .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lieberman -lrb- right -rrb- with ruprecht polenz , chairman of the foreign affairs committee during talks with members of the german parliamentary foreign affairs committee lieberman said the peace process had been little more than a waste of money .
he also brought up iran , saying the country was a major threat .
later in the day , lieberman paid his respects at berlin 's holocaust memorial , laying a wreath at the 19,000-square-meter monument in the center of berlin .
lieberman later held talks with german interior minister wolfgang schaeuble , followed by dinner with his german counterpart frank-walter steinmeier .
germany 's top diplomat urged the controversial israeli foreign minister to adopt a two-state plan as the basis for peace in the middle east and the " sole path to peace and security . "
steinmeier emphasized that the german government expected the new israeli administration under prime minister benjamin netanyahu would abide with previous peace commitments .
the german minister said it was important to stregthen moderate forces in the region and actively involve them in the peace process .
with regard to the situation in the gaza strip , steinmeier said it was imperative that palestinians had access to aid supplies .
the israeli foreign minister , who heads a nationalist party in prime minister benjamin netanyahu 's coalition , caused a stir on his first day in office , when he announced that israel was no longer bound by the so-called annapolis peace process , which formed the basis of the israeli-palestinian peace talks in 2008 .
lieberman 's european visit - which has included meetings in rome , paris and european union talks in prague - was mostly conducted out of the media eye .
in berlin , no joint press conference or photo call was scheduled for his meeting with steinmeier .
this echoed lieberman 's reception in france , where foreign minister bernard kouchner chose not to hold a joint press conference as had been customary when lieberman 's predecessor tzipi livni came to paris . ch / pfd / nrt , rtr / dpa / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de merkel says " no alternative " to two-state solution in middle east german chancellor angela merkel has said there is no alternative to a two-state solution to the mideast crisis following talks in berlin on wednesday with jordan 's king abdullah ii .
-lrb- 06.05.2009 -rrb- netanyahu demands that palestinians recognize israel as jewish state israeli prime minister benjamin netanyahu has demanded palestinians recognize israel as a jewish state .
the call was made during his meeting with the visiting us special envoy to the middle east , george mitchell .
-lrb- 16.04.2009 -rrb- opinion : labour decision to join likud harms hopes for peace israeli labour party head ehud barack 's decision to take part in a government led by hardliner benjamin netanyahu is a disservice to the labour party and , more importantly , to hopes for peace , writes dw 's peter philipp .
-lrb- 25.03.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live pulse listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
iceland 's new government plans a bid for eu membership -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 10.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de european union -pipe- 07.05.2009 iceland 's new government plans a bid for eu membership großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : iceland wants to join the 27-member bloc iceland is preparing a bid for entry into the european union , just two weeks after the country 's new left-wing government was elected into power . the country ’ s prime minister johanna sigurdardottir announced on state television that she would present a parliamentary bill to authorize the start of membership talks with the european union .
" there will be a government resolution tabled -lrb- on eu talks -rrb- , " prime minister johanna sigurdardottir said .
she did not give a timeframe for when the bill would be put forward , but it ’ s expected that the draft could be introduced as early as next week when parliament convenes . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : johanna sigurdardottir says that eu membership is vital for iceland the move is a u-turn for the small northern atlantic island and it ’ s a development which would have been unthinkable only one year ago .
but then the financial crisis struck and the small country was turned upside down .
on the brink of bankruptcy long before the recession arrived in europe and the us , iceland in the summer of 2008 was already in serious trouble .
late last year the country made headlines as it veered toward bankruptcy .
before the sudden downturn , iceland had been thriving , it ’ s people enjoying a living standard among the highest in the world .
the country ’ s banks epitomized the global credit boom and the capital reykjavik became a hub of international finance .
banks expanded overseas and enjoyed exceptional growth .
on the eve of the credit crunch , iceland ’ s banks held foreign assets worth around ten times the country ’ s gdp .
in 2007 , gdp amounted to around $ 11 billion .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : iceland 's kaupthing bank is now run by the governemt iceland was therefore extremely vulnerable to any disruptions on the international financial markets and when the crisis eventually hit , the country went into a tailspin .
the icelandic crown virtually ceased trading and strict capital control had to be introduced to sustain even the import of vital goods such as food and medicine .
the country 's top banks were all nationalized and iceland needed a $ 10 billion rescue package from the international monetary fund to stay afloat .
painful reforms are underway but unemployment is still on the rise and the economic outlook remains gloomy .
public pressure and growing support for eu membership it was not long until the trouble on the balance sheets translated onto the streets .
in a wave of unrest , citizens expressed their anger and frustration at the government 's handling of affairs .
the country was then run by a coalition headed by the center-right independence party which had dominated icelandic politics for decades .
but after months of increasingly violent protests , the government collapsed early this year .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : popular protests brought down the old government in january 2009 new elections in april saw the social democrats emerge as the strongest party and their leader johanna sigurdardottir became the country 's new prime minister .
the 66-year old left little doubt that she wanted to steer her country closer toward the eu .
" it 's the only option we have to safeguard economic stability in the country , " she said after the elections .
the social democrats ' junior coalition partner , the left-greens , had previously opposed a move toward the european union over fears that reykjavik would have to surrender some of its independence to brussels .
however , many of iceland 's 320,000 inhabitants support the idea of joining the eu and ultimately adopting the euro currency .
a snap opinion poll for state television on wednesday showed that 61.2 percent were in favor of eu talks and only 29.6 percent against it . cg / ai , reuters / dpa send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de albania submits bid for european union membership albania has announced it will apply for membership to the 27-member european union .
but european leaders warn the country has a long road ahead of it before it 's ready to join the bloc .
-lrb- 28.04.2009 -rrb- iceland 's interim leftist government wins resounding election victory iceland 's interim leftist government won a resounding victory in this weekend 's general election as voters punished the conservatives they blame for the country 's economic meltdown seven months ago .
-lrb- 26.04.2009 -rrb- 9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx - lifestyle europe we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
europe 's borders african refugees flee unrest and arrive on island of malta with hopes for a better life .
watch the video art glass art has been made on the island of murano for centuries , but it still has an exciting future .
watch the video nuclear energy politicians in nuclear giant france decry germany 's decision to abandon the technology .
listen to the audio europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
iceland 's new government plans a bid for eu membership -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 10.11.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de european union -pipe- 07.05.2009 iceland 's new government plans a bid for eu membership großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : iceland wants to join the 27-member bloc iceland is preparing a bid for entry into the european union , just two weeks after the country 's new left-wing government was elected into power . the country ’ s prime minister johanna sigurdardottir announced on state television that she would present a parliamentary bill to authorize the start of membership talks with the european union .
" there will be a government resolution tabled -lrb- on eu talks -rrb- , " prime minister johanna sigurdardottir said .
she did not give a timeframe for when the bill would be put forward , but it ’ s expected that the draft could be introduced as early as next week when parliament convenes . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : johanna sigurdardottir says that eu membership is vital for iceland the move is a u-turn for the small northern atlantic island and it ’ s a development which would have been unthinkable only one year ago .
but then the financial crisis struck and the small country was turned upside down .
on the brink of bankruptcy long before the recession arrived in europe and the us , iceland in the summer of 2008 was already in serious trouble .
late last year the country made headlines as it veered toward bankruptcy .
before the sudden downturn , iceland had been thriving , it ’ s people enjoying a living standard among the highest in the world .
the country ’ s banks epitomized the global credit boom and the capital reykjavik became a hub of international finance .
banks expanded overseas and enjoyed exceptional growth .
on the eve of the credit crunch , iceland ’ s banks held foreign assets worth around ten times the country ’ s gdp .
in 2007 , gdp amounted to around $ 11 billion .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : iceland 's kaupthing bank is now run by the governemt iceland was therefore extremely vulnerable to any disruptions on the international financial markets and when the crisis eventually hit , the country went into a tailspin .
the icelandic crown virtually ceased trading and strict capital control had to be introduced to sustain even the import of vital goods such as food and medicine .
the country 's top banks were all nationalized and iceland needed a $ 10 billion rescue package from the international monetary fund to stay afloat .
painful reforms are underway but unemployment is still on the rise and the economic outlook remains gloomy .
public pressure and growing support for eu membership it was not long until the trouble on the balance sheets translated onto the streets .
in a wave of unrest , citizens expressed their anger and frustration at the government 's handling of affairs .
the country was then run by a coalition headed by the center-right independence party which had dominated icelandic politics for decades .
but after months of increasingly violent protests , the government collapsed early this year .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : popular protests brought down the old government in january 2009 new elections in april saw the social democrats emerge as the strongest party and their leader johanna sigurdardottir became the country 's new prime minister .
the 66-year old left little doubt that she wanted to steer her country closer toward the eu .
" it 's the only option we have to safeguard economic stability in the country , " she said after the elections .
the social democrats ' junior coalition partner , the left-greens , had previously opposed a move toward the european union over fears that reykjavik would have to surrender some of its independence to brussels .
however , many of iceland 's 320,000 inhabitants support the idea of joining the eu and ultimately adopting the euro currency .
a snap opinion poll for state television on wednesday showed that 61.2 percent were in favor of eu talks and only 29.6 percent against it . cg / ai , reuters / dpa send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de albania submits bid for european union membership albania has announced it will apply for membership to the 27-member european union .
but european leaders warn the country has a long road ahead of it before it 's ready to join the bloc .
-lrb- 28.04.2009 -rrb- iceland 's interim leftist government wins resounding election victory iceland 's interim leftist government won a resounding victory in this weekend 's general election as voters punished the conservatives they blame for the country 's economic meltdown seven months ago .
-lrb- 26.04.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live pulse listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
iceland 's new government plans a bid for eu membership -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 19.01.2011 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de european union -pipe- 07.05.2009 iceland 's new government plans a bid for eu membership großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : iceland wants to join the 27-member bloc iceland is preparing a bid for entry into the european union , just two weeks after the country 's new left-wing government was elected into power . the country ’ s prime minister johanna sigurdardottir announced on state television that she would present a parliamentary bill to authorize the start of membership talks with the european union .
" there will be a government resolution tabled -lrb- on eu talks -rrb- , " prime minister johanna sigurdardottir said .
she did not give a timeframe for when the bill would be put forward , but it ’ s expected that the draft could be introduced as early as next week when parliament convenes . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : johanna sigurdardottir says that eu membership is vital for iceland the move is a u-turn for the small northern atlantic island and it ’ s a development which would have been unthinkable only one year ago .
but then the financial crisis struck and the small country was turned upside down .
on the brink of bankruptcy long before the recession arrived in europe and the us , iceland in the summer of 2008 was already in serious trouble .
late last year the country made headlines as it veered toward bankruptcy .
before the sudden downturn , iceland had been thriving , it ’ s people enjoying a living standard among the highest in the world .
the country ’ s banks epitomized the global credit boom and the capital reykjavik became a hub of international finance .
banks expanded overseas and enjoyed exceptional growth .
on the eve of the credit crunch , iceland ’ s banks held foreign assets worth around ten times the country ’ s gdp .
in 2007 , gdp amounted to around $ 11 billion .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : iceland 's kaupthing bank is now run by the governemt iceland was therefore extremely vulnerable to any disruptions on the international financial markets and when the crisis eventually hit , the country went into a tailspin .
the icelandic crown virtually ceased trading and strict capital control had to be introduced to sustain even the import of vital goods such as food and medicine .
the country 's top banks were all nationalized and iceland needed a $ 10 billion rescue package from the international monetary fund to stay afloat .
painful reforms are underway but unemployment is still on the rise and the economic outlook remains gloomy .
public pressure and growing support for eu membership it was not long until the trouble on the balance sheets translated onto the streets .
in a wave of unrest , citizens expressed their anger and frustration at the government 's handling of affairs .
the country was then run by a coalition headed by the center-right independence party which had dominated icelandic politics for decades .
but after months of increasingly violent protests , the government collapsed early this year .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : popular protests brought down the old government in january 2009 new elections in april saw the social democrats emerge as the strongest party and their leader johanna sigurdardottir became the country 's new prime minister .
the 66-year old left little doubt that she wanted to steer her country closer toward the eu .
" it 's the only option we have to safeguard economic stability in the country , " she said after the elections .
the social democrats ' junior coalition partner , the left-greens , had previously opposed a move toward the european union over fears that reykjavik would have to surrender some of its independence to brussels .
however , many of iceland 's 320,000 inhabitants support the idea of joining the eu and ultimately adopting the euro currency .
a snap opinion poll for state television on wednesday showed that 61.2 percent were in favor of eu talks and only 29.6 percent against it . cg / ai , reuters / dpa send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de albania submits bid for european union membership albania has announced it will apply for membership to the 27-member european union .
but european leaders warn the country has a long road ahead of it before it 's ready to join the bloc .
-lrb- 28.04.2009 -rrb- iceland 's interim leftist government wins resounding election victory iceland 's interim leftist government won a resounding victory in this weekend 's general election as voters punished the conservatives they blame for the country 's economic meltdown seven months ago .
-lrb- 26.04.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
italians hard hit by plastic bag ban east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
iceland 's new government plans a bid for eu membership -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 26.09.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de european union -pipe- 07.05.2009 iceland 's new government plans a bid for eu membership großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : iceland wants to join the 27-member bloc iceland is preparing a bid for entry into the european union , just two weeks after the country 's new left-wing government was elected into power . the country ’ s prime minister johanna sigurdardottir announced on state television that she would present a parliamentary bill to authorize the start of membership talks with the european union .
" there will be a government resolution tabled -lrb- on eu talks -rrb- , " prime minister johanna sigurdardottir said .
she did not give a timeframe for when the bill would be put forward , but it ’ s expected that the draft could be introduced as early as next week when parliament convenes . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : johanna sigurdardottir says that eu membership is vital for iceland the move is a u-turn for the small northern atlantic island and it ’ s a development which would have been unthinkable only one year ago .
but then the financial crisis struck and the small country was turned upside down .
on the brink of bankruptcy long before the recession arrived in europe and the us , iceland in the summer of 2008 was already in serious trouble .
late last year the country made headlines as it veered toward bankruptcy .
before the sudden downturn , iceland had been thriving , it ’ s people enjoying a living standard among the highest in the world .
the country ’ s banks epitomized the global credit boom and the capital reykjavik became a hub of international finance .
banks expanded overseas and enjoyed exceptional growth .
on the eve of the credit crunch , iceland ’ s banks held foreign assets worth around ten times the country ’ s gdp .
in 2007 , gdp amounted to around $ 11 billion .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : iceland 's kaupthing bank is now run by the governemt iceland was therefore extremely vulnerable to any disruptions on the international financial markets and when the crisis eventually hit , the country went into a tailspin .
the icelandic crown virtually ceased trading and strict capital control had to be introduced to sustain even the import of vital goods such as food and medicine .
the country 's top banks were all nationalized and iceland needed a $ 10 billion rescue package from the international monetary fund to stay afloat .
painful reforms are underway but unemployment is still on the rise and the economic outlook remains gloomy .
public pressure and growing support for eu membership it was not long until the trouble on the balance sheets translated onto the streets .
in a wave of unrest , citizens expressed their anger and frustration at the government 's handling of affairs .
the country was then run by a coalition headed by the center-right independence party which had dominated icelandic politics for decades .
but after months of increasingly violent protests , the government collapsed early this year .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : popular protests brought down the old government in january 2009 new elections in april saw the social democrats emerge as the strongest party and their leader johanna sigurdardottir became the country 's new prime minister .
the 66-year old left little doubt that she wanted to steer her country closer toward the eu .
" it 's the only option we have to safeguard economic stability in the country , " she said after the elections .
the social democrats ' junior coalition partner , the left-greens , had previously opposed a move toward the european union over fears that reykjavik would have to surrender some of its independence to brussels .
however , many of iceland 's 320,000 inhabitants support the idea of joining the eu and ultimately adopting the euro currency .
a snap opinion poll for state television on wednesday showed that 61.2 percent were in favor of eu talks and only 29.6 percent against it . cg / ai , reuters / dpa send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de albania submits bid for european union membership albania has announced it will apply for membership to the 27-member european union .
but european leaders warn the country has a long road ahead of it before it 's ready to join the bloc .
-lrb- 28.04.2009 -rrb- iceland 's interim leftist government wins resounding election victory iceland 's interim leftist government won a resounding victory in this weekend 's general election as voters punished the conservatives they blame for the country 's economic meltdown seven months ago .
-lrb- 26.04.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live learning by ear listen live people natascha kampusch , the austrian who was kept prisoner from age 10 to 18 , publishes her autobigraphy .
listen to the report postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
postcard from europe : betancourt book sparks controversy in france postcard from europe : technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket are the gay games necessary ?
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
us-russia arms control deal first step towards global disarmament -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 10.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de defense -pipe- 07.05.2009 us-russia arms control deal first step towards global disarmament großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : moscow and washington want to curb nuclear proliferation us and russian officials will begin to negotiate a deal to cut their nuclear weapons arsenals in the coming weeks .
if they succeed , it could convince other nuclear powers to follow suit . the goal is clear and shared by both countries .
russia and the us want to reduce their number of nuclear missiles and replace the old bilateral start arms reduction treaty , which will expire at the end of the year , with a new arms control pact .
a preliminary meeting between the two sides has been described by the russian foreign ministry as " constructive " and " businesslike , " increasing the expectations for a positive outcome .
" i think generally the chances for success are very good " , says oliver meier , international representative of the arms control association .
" both sides on the major issues are really not far apart .
they have the same ideas in mind in terms of overall reductions in warheads , " he added .
" they have the same preferences in terms of having a legally binding , verifiable treaty .
the problem is that the timetable is very challenging because they are aiming for an agreement in the next couple of months and that will be very tough . "
if , as expected , it takes longer to solve the remaining differences , such as whether to include stored warheads as russia wants or not include them as the us wants , the existing start treaty could simply be extended beyond its expiration date at the end of the year .
as an alternative , another similar treaty could be signed until a more ambitious arms deal is reached in a second round of talks .
different categories of nuclear powers bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : barack obama has a long-term vision of a nuclear weapon free world while the prospects to strike a deal with russia look positive , president barack obama has a much loftier vision which he announced in his speech in prague in april : a world free of nuclear weapons .
but could a new arms control agreement between the us and russia , which combined possess at least 90 percent of all nuclear weapons , really put that much pressure on other nuclear powers and launch a global trend towards nuclear disarmament ?
miles pomper , a senior research associate at the center for non-proliferation studies , cautions against unrealistic expectations of a russian-american arms deal on other nations with nuclear weapons .
" what it might do is within the non-proliferation treaty process it would convince other countries of the goodwill of the united states and russia to meet their commitments to make steps toward nuclear disarmament and by doing that those other countries could increase the pressure on the irans and north koreas -lrb- of this world -rrb- to comply with their non-proliferation commitments .
but it 's not a kind of direct correlation . "
the experts point out that it is important to consider that the countries possessing nuclear weapons ca n't simply be lumped together .
the first category of nations , consisting of the states recognized by the nuclear non-proliferation treaty , includes france , britain and china .
getting them involved in arms reduction negotiations would probably be easier than to approach the second group of countries , consisting of india , pakistan , israel and north korea , states that are not formally recognized by the non-proliferation treaty .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : iran and north korea are a risk to regional security , the west says of the official nuclear powers , britain and china tend to be open towards international nuclear disarmament while france has taken a more reluctant stance towards disarmament .
british prime minister gordon brown was speaking about a nuclear free world even before barack obama and china traditionally had voiced a preference for a nuclear weapons free world , the experts point out . it 's a whole different story with the group of unofficial nuclear states .
with them it 's all about regional security , says oliver meier .
" if you go talk about israel of course you have the problem of the middle east , you have the problem of iran and very much will depend on what progress is made in the middle east .
" india and pakistan , of course you have the situation in south asia , the rivalry between those states .
and north korea is anybody 's bet .
that is at the moment very difficult to predict what policy north korea is pursuing . "
political climate has changed bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some in nuclear-armed pakistan harbor hatred of the us and india while it is helpful to keep obama 's vision - a nuclear free world - in mind , it is important to focus on the concrete steps that have to be taken first by russia and the us .
to merely amend or extend the existing start treaty in a first round of negotiations will take time .
to hammer out a new deal with more aggressive cuts in nuclear weapons will require even more patience , says miles pomper .
" just those two negotiations might take all of obama 's first term , assuming there 's a second term .
so i think until you get those you ca n't really judge the third round and maybe bringing other countries into the negotiations . "
obama of course knows himself that the goal of a nuclear free world is a political marathon , not a sprint .
in his speech in prague , he admitted that this goal may not be reached in his lifetime .
still , the global political conditions for a long time have n't been as conducive to nuclear arms reductions as they are right now .
" we now have from a range of people and governments a list of proposals how to move forward towards that goal , " argues oliver meier .
" for the first time in many , many years we have that discussion being led by a range of political actors , but also by the public , who have not taken this goal serious before .
and of course to have the united states in the leadership role has changed the political dynamics a lot . "
author : michael knigge editor : robert mudge send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de obama calls for end to nuclear weapons in prague speech us president barack obama has announced ambitious plans to rid the world of nuclear weapons at a speech in prague .
yet his support for a controversial us missile shield in eastern europe could anger russia .
-lrb- 05.04.2009 -rrb- five security council powers , germany offer direct dialog with iran the five permanent members of the un security council and germany on tuesday offered direct dialogue with iran to solve the ongoing nuclear standoff with the islamic republic .
-lrb- 04.03.2009 -rrb- iran 's new missiles add to europe 's nuclear worries iran alarmed the international community this week by using newly-developed missile technology to launch a satellite into space .
envoys from six countries are meeting in germany on wednesday to plan a response .
-lrb- 04.02.2009 -rrb- north korea says it has reactivated its nuclear program pyongyang says it has reactivated its nuclear program to " bolster the deterrence for self-defence in every way to cope with the increasing military threats from the hostile forces . " -lrb- 25.04.2009 -rrb- 9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
wto ruling the world trade organization rules that china 's export restrictions on raw materials are illegal .
watch the video cairo clashes cairo 's tahrir square is back in the headlines after violent clashes between protesters and police .
watch the video in depth focus on libya dw-world looks at the turmoil in libya : what it means for tripoli and the rest of the world .
international conference media representatives around the world gather in bonn to discuss human rights .
podcast series a german musician brings change with song and crowd funding .
download the report subscribe to the series on itunes past episodes learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
us-russia arms control deal first step towards global disarmament -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 08.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de defense -pipe- 07.05.2009 us-russia arms control deal first step towards global disarmament großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : moscow and washington want to curb nuclear proliferation us and russian officials will begin to negotiate a deal to cut their nuclear weapons arsenals in the coming weeks .
if they succeed , it could convince other nuclear powers to follow suit . the goal is clear and shared by both countries .
russia and the us want to reduce their number of nuclear missiles and replace the old bilateral start arms reduction treaty , which will expire at the end of the year , with a new arms control pact .
a preliminary meeting between the two sides has been described by the russian foreign ministry as " constructive " and " businesslike , " increasing the expectations for a positive outcome .
" i think generally the chances for success are very good " , says oliver meier , international representative of the arms control association .
" both sides on the major issues are really not far apart .
they have the same ideas in mind in terms of overall reductions in warheads , " he added .
" they have the same preferences in terms of having a legally binding , verifiable treaty .
the problem is that the timetable is very challenging because they are aiming for an agreement in the next couple of months and that will be very tough . "
if , as expected , it takes longer to solve the remaining differences , such as whether to include stored warheads as russia wants or not include them as the us wants , the existing start treaty could simply be extended beyond its expiration date at the end of the year .
as an alternative , another similar treaty could be signed until a more ambitious arms deal is reached in a second round of talks .
different categories of nuclear powers bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : barack obama has a long-term vision of a nuclear weapon free world while the prospects to strike a deal with russia look positive , president barack obama has a much loftier vision which he announced in his speech in prague in april : a world free of nuclear weapons .
but could a new arms control agreement between the us and russia , which combined possess at least 90 percent of all nuclear weapons , really put that much pressure on other nuclear powers and launch a global trend towards nuclear disarmament ?
miles pomper , a senior research associate at the center for non-proliferation studies , cautions against unrealistic expectations of a russian-american arms deal on other nations with nuclear weapons .
" what it might do is within the non-proliferation treaty process it would convince other countries of the goodwill of the united states and russia to meet their commitments to make steps toward nuclear disarmament and by doing that those other countries could increase the pressure on the irans and north koreas -lrb- of this world -rrb- to comply with their non-proliferation commitments .
but it 's not a kind of direct correlation . "
the experts point out that it is important to consider that the countries possessing nuclear weapons ca n't simply be lumped together .
the first category of nations , consisting of the states recognized by the nuclear non-proliferation treaty , includes france , britain and china .
getting them involved in arms reduction negotiations would probably be easier than to approach the second group of countries , consisting of india , pakistan , israel and north korea , states that are not formally recognized by the non-proliferation treaty .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : iran and north korea are a risk to regional security , the west says of the official nuclear powers , britain and china tend to be open towards international nuclear disarmament while france has taken a more reluctant stance towards disarmament .
british prime minister gordon brown was speaking about a nuclear free world even before barack obama and china traditionally had voiced a preference for a nuclear weapons free world , the experts point out . it 's a whole different story with the group of unofficial nuclear states .
with them it 's all about regional security , says oliver meier .
" if you go talk about israel of course you have the problem of the middle east , you have the problem of iran and very much will depend on what progress is made in the middle east .
" india and pakistan , of course you have the situation in south asia , the rivalry between those states .
and north korea is anybody 's bet .
that is at the moment very difficult to predict what policy north korea is pursuing . "
political climate has changed bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some in nuclear-armed pakistan harbor hatred of the us and india while it is helpful to keep obama 's vision - a nuclear free world - in mind , it is important to focus on the concrete steps that have to be taken first by russia and the us .
to merely amend or extend the existing start treaty in a first round of negotiations will take time .
to hammer out a new deal with more aggressive cuts in nuclear weapons will require even more patience , says miles pomper .
" just those two negotiations might take all of obama 's first term , assuming there 's a second term .
so i think until you get those you ca n't really judge the third round and maybe bringing other countries into the negotiations . "
obama of course knows himself that the goal of a nuclear free world is a political marathon , not a sprint .
in his speech in prague , he admitted that this goal may not be reached in his lifetime .
still , the global political conditions for a long time have n't been as conducive to nuclear arms reductions as they are right now .
" we now have from a range of people and governments a list of proposals how to move forward towards that goal , " argues oliver meier .
" for the first time in many , many years we have that discussion being led by a range of political actors , but also by the public , who have not taken this goal serious before .
and of course to have the united states in the leadership role has changed the political dynamics a lot . "
author : michael knigge editor : robert mudge send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de obama calls for end to nuclear weapons in prague speech us president barack obama has announced ambitious plans to rid the world of nuclear weapons at a speech in prague .
yet his support for a controversial us missile shield in eastern europe could anger russia .
-lrb- 05.04.2009 -rrb- five security council powers , germany offer direct dialog with iran the five permanent members of the un security council and germany on tuesday offered direct dialogue with iran to solve the ongoing nuclear standoff with the islamic republic .
-lrb- 04.03.2009 -rrb- iran 's new missiles add to europe 's nuclear worries iran alarmed the international community this week by using newly-developed missile technology to launch a satellite into space .
envoys from six countries are meeting in germany on wednesday to plan a response .
-lrb- 04.02.2009 -rrb- north korea says it has reactivated its nuclear program pyongyang says it has reactivated its nuclear program to " bolster the deterrence for self-defence in every way to cope with the increasing military threats from the hostile forces . " -lrb- 25.04.2009 -rrb- 9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
security concerns there is a growing connection between security and natural resources .
listen to the interview podcast series life without the arts would be a lot less colorful , but guides like lukas help experience the arts .
download the podcast international conference media representatives around the world gather in bonn to discuss human rights .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
us-russia arms control deal first step towards global disarmament -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 26.10.2010 home news germany europe world from tierra del fuego to tijuana asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de defense -pipe- 07.05.2009 us-russia arms control deal first step towards global disarmament großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : moscow and washington want to curb nuclear proliferation us and russian officials will begin to negotiate a deal to cut their nuclear weapons arsenals in the coming weeks .
if they succeed , it could convince other nuclear powers to follow suit . the goal is clear and shared by both countries .
russia and the us want to reduce their number of nuclear missiles and replace the old bilateral start arms reduction treaty , which will expire at the end of the year , with a new arms control pact .
a preliminary meeting between the two sides has been described by the russian foreign ministry as " constructive " and " businesslike , " increasing the expectations for a positive outcome .
" i think generally the chances for success are very good " , says oliver meier , international representative of the arms control association .
" both sides on the major issues are really not far apart .
they have the same ideas in mind in terms of overall reductions in warheads , " he added .
" they have the same preferences in terms of having a legally binding , verifiable treaty .
the problem is that the timetable is very challenging because they are aiming for an agreement in the next couple of months and that will be very tough . "
if , as expected , it takes longer to solve the remaining differences , such as whether to include stored warheads as russia wants or not include them as the us wants , the existing start treaty could simply be extended beyond its expiration date at the end of the year .
as an alternative , another similar treaty could be signed until a more ambitious arms deal is reached in a second round of talks .
different categories of nuclear powers bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : barack obama has a long-term vision of a nuclear weapon free world while the prospects to strike a deal with russia look positive , president barack obama has a much loftier vision which he announced in his speech in prague in april : a world free of nuclear weapons .
but could a new arms control agreement between the us and russia , which combined possess at least 90 percent of all nuclear weapons , really put that much pressure on other nuclear powers and launch a global trend towards nuclear disarmament ?
miles pomper , a senior research associate at the center for non-proliferation studies , cautions against unrealistic expectations of a russian-american arms deal on other nations with nuclear weapons .
" what it might do is within the non-proliferation treaty process it would convince other countries of the goodwill of the united states and russia to meet their commitments to make steps toward nuclear disarmament and by doing that those other countries could increase the pressure on the irans and north koreas -lrb- of this world -rrb- to comply with their non-proliferation commitments .
but it 's not a kind of direct correlation . "
the experts point out that it is important to consider that the countries possessing nuclear weapons ca n't simply be lumped together .
the first category of nations , consisting of the states recognized by the nuclear non-proliferation treaty , includes france , britain and china .
getting them involved in arms reduction negotiations would probably be easier than to approach the second group of countries , consisting of india , pakistan , israel and north korea , states that are not formally recognized by the non-proliferation treaty .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : iran and north korea are a risk to regional security , the west says of the official nuclear powers , britain and china tend to be open towards international nuclear disarmament while france has taken a more reluctant stance towards disarmament .
british prime minister gordon brown was speaking about a nuclear free world even before barack obama and china traditionally had voiced a preference for a nuclear weapons free world , the experts point out . it 's a whole different story with the group of unofficial nuclear states .
with them it 's all about regional security , says oliver meier .
" if you go talk about israel of course you have the problem of the middle east , you have the problem of iran and very much will depend on what progress is made in the middle east .
" india and pakistan , of course you have the situation in south asia , the rivalry between those states .
and north korea is anybody 's bet .
that is at the moment very difficult to predict what policy north korea is pursuing . "
political climate has changed bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some in nuclear-armed pakistan harbor hatred of the us and india while it is helpful to keep obama 's vision - a nuclear free world - in mind , it is important to focus on the concrete steps that have to be taken first by russia and the us .
to merely amend or extend the existing start treaty in a first round of negotiations will take time .
to hammer out a new deal with more aggressive cuts in nuclear weapons will require even more patience , says miles pomper .
" just those two negotiations might take all of obama 's first term , assuming there 's a second term .
so i think until you get those you ca n't really judge the third round and maybe bringing other countries into the negotiations . "
obama of course knows himself that the goal of a nuclear free world is a political marathon , not a sprint .
in his speech in prague , he admitted that this goal may not be reached in his lifetime .
still , the global political conditions for a long time have n't been as conducive to nuclear arms reductions as they are right now .
" we now have from a range of people and governments a list of proposals how to move forward towards that goal , " argues oliver meier .
" for the first time in many , many years we have that discussion being led by a range of political actors , but also by the public , who have not taken this goal serious before .
and of course to have the united states in the leadership role has changed the political dynamics a lot . "
author : michael knigge editor : robert mudge send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de obama calls for end to nuclear weapons in prague speech us president barack obama has announced ambitious plans to rid the world of nuclear weapons at a speech in prague .
yet his support for a controversial us missile shield in eastern europe could anger russia .
-lrb- 05.04.2009 -rrb- five security council powers , germany offer direct dialog with iran the five permanent members of the un security council and germany on tuesday offered direct dialogue with iran to solve the ongoing nuclear standoff with the islamic republic .
-lrb- 04.03.2009 -rrb- iran 's new missiles add to europe 's nuclear worries iran alarmed the international community this week by using newly-developed missile technology to launch a satellite into space .
envoys from six countries are meeting in germany on wednesday to plan a response .
-lrb- 04.02.2009 -rrb- north korea says it has reactivated its nuclear program pyongyang says it has reactivated its nuclear program to " bolster the deterrence for self-defence in every way to cope with the increasing military threats from the hostile forces . " -lrb- 25.04.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live hits in germany pop from the german top 100 listen live learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan new web site check out deutsche welle 's new asia page in english .
dw asia online news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's newest media partner latin america take a multimedia journey discover the region and its people © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
us-russia arms control deal first step towards global disarmament -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 17.01.2011 home news germany europe world from tierra del fuego to tijuana asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de defense -pipe- 07.05.2009 us-russia arms control deal first step towards global disarmament großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : moscow and washington want to curb nuclear proliferation us and russian officials will begin to negotiate a deal to cut their nuclear weapons arsenals in the coming weeks .
if they succeed , it could convince other nuclear powers to follow suit . the goal is clear and shared by both countries .
russia and the us want to reduce their number of nuclear missiles and replace the old bilateral start arms reduction treaty , which will expire at the end of the year , with a new arms control pact .
a preliminary meeting between the two sides has been described by the russian foreign ministry as " constructive " and " businesslike , " increasing the expectations for a positive outcome .
" i think generally the chances for success are very good " , says oliver meier , international representative of the arms control association .
" both sides on the major issues are really not far apart .
they have the same ideas in mind in terms of overall reductions in warheads , " he added .
" they have the same preferences in terms of having a legally binding , verifiable treaty .
the problem is that the timetable is very challenging because they are aiming for an agreement in the next couple of months and that will be very tough . "
if , as expected , it takes longer to solve the remaining differences , such as whether to include stored warheads as russia wants or not include them as the us wants , the existing start treaty could simply be extended beyond its expiration date at the end of the year .
as an alternative , another similar treaty could be signed until a more ambitious arms deal is reached in a second round of talks .
different categories of nuclear powers bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : barack obama has a long-term vision of a nuclear weapon free world while the prospects to strike a deal with russia look positive , president barack obama has a much loftier vision which he announced in his speech in prague in april : a world free of nuclear weapons .
but could a new arms control agreement between the us and russia , which combined possess at least 90 percent of all nuclear weapons , really put that much pressure on other nuclear powers and launch a global trend towards nuclear disarmament ?
miles pomper , a senior research associate at the center for non-proliferation studies , cautions against unrealistic expectations of a russian-american arms deal on other nations with nuclear weapons .
" what it might do is within the non-proliferation treaty process it would convince other countries of the goodwill of the united states and russia to meet their commitments to make steps toward nuclear disarmament and by doing that those other countries could increase the pressure on the irans and north koreas -lrb- of this world -rrb- to comply with their non-proliferation commitments .
but it 's not a kind of direct correlation . "
the experts point out that it is important to consider that the countries possessing nuclear weapons ca n't simply be lumped together .
the first category of nations , consisting of the states recognized by the nuclear non-proliferation treaty , includes france , britain and china .
getting them involved in arms reduction negotiations would probably be easier than to approach the second group of countries , consisting of india , pakistan , israel and north korea , states that are not formally recognized by the non-proliferation treaty .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : iran and north korea are a risk to regional security , the west says of the official nuclear powers , britain and china tend to be open towards international nuclear disarmament while france has taken a more reluctant stance towards disarmament .
british prime minister gordon brown was speaking about a nuclear free world even before barack obama and china traditionally had voiced a preference for a nuclear weapons free world , the experts point out . it 's a whole different story with the group of unofficial nuclear states .
with them it 's all about regional security , says oliver meier .
" if you go talk about israel of course you have the problem of the middle east , you have the problem of iran and very much will depend on what progress is made in the middle east .
" india and pakistan , of course you have the situation in south asia , the rivalry between those states .
and north korea is anybody 's bet .
that is at the moment very difficult to predict what policy north korea is pursuing . "
political climate has changed bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some in nuclear-armed pakistan harbor hatred of the us and india while it is helpful to keep obama 's vision - a nuclear free world - in mind , it is important to focus on the concrete steps that have to be taken first by russia and the us .
to merely amend or extend the existing start treaty in a first round of negotiations will take time .
to hammer out a new deal with more aggressive cuts in nuclear weapons will require even more patience , says miles pomper .
" just those two negotiations might take all of obama 's first term , assuming there 's a second term .
so i think until you get those you ca n't really judge the third round and maybe bringing other countries into the negotiations . "
obama of course knows himself that the goal of a nuclear free world is a political marathon , not a sprint .
in his speech in prague , he admitted that this goal may not be reached in his lifetime .
still , the global political conditions for a long time have n't been as conducive to nuclear arms reductions as they are right now .
" we now have from a range of people and governments a list of proposals how to move forward towards that goal , " argues oliver meier .
" for the first time in many , many years we have that discussion being led by a range of political actors , but also by the public , who have not taken this goal serious before .
and of course to have the united states in the leadership role has changed the political dynamics a lot . "
author : michael knigge editor : robert mudge send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de obama calls for end to nuclear weapons in prague speech us president barack obama has announced ambitious plans to rid the world of nuclear weapons at a speech in prague .
yet his support for a controversial us missile shield in eastern europe could anger russia .
-lrb- 05.04.2009 -rrb- five security council powers , germany offer direct dialog with iran the five permanent members of the un security council and germany on tuesday offered direct dialogue with iran to solve the ongoing nuclear standoff with the islamic republic .
-lrb- 04.03.2009 -rrb- iran 's new missiles add to europe 's nuclear worries iran alarmed the international community this week by using newly-developed missile technology to launch a satellite into space .
envoys from six countries are meeting in germany on wednesday to plan a response .
-lrb- 04.02.2009 -rrb- north korea says it has reactivated its nuclear program pyongyang says it has reactivated its nuclear program to " bolster the deterrence for self-defence in every way to cope with the increasing military threats from the hostile forces . " -lrb- 25.04.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
battered city the extent of the damage in brisbane is slowly becoming visible .
watch the video learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan latin america take a multimedia journey discover the region and its people news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's newest media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
us-russia arms control deal first step towards global disarmament -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 14.09.2010 home news germany europe world from tierra del fuego to tijuana asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de defense -pipe- 07.05.2009 us-russia arms control deal first step towards global disarmament großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : moscow and washington want to curb nuclear proliferation us and russian officials will begin to negotiate a deal to cut their nuclear weapons arsenals in the coming weeks .
if they succeed , it could convince other nuclear powers to follow suit . the goal is clear and shared by both countries .
russia and the us want to reduce their number of nuclear missiles and replace the old bilateral start arms reduction treaty , which will expire at the end of the year , with a new arms control pact .
a preliminary meeting between the two sides has been described by the russian foreign ministry as " constructive " and " businesslike , " increasing the expectations for a positive outcome .
" i think generally the chances for success are very good " , says oliver meier , international representative of the arms control association .
" both sides on the major issues are really not far apart .
they have the same ideas in mind in terms of overall reductions in warheads , " he added .
" they have the same preferences in terms of having a legally binding , verifiable treaty .
the problem is that the timetable is very challenging because they are aiming for an agreement in the next couple of months and that will be very tough . "
if , as expected , it takes longer to solve the remaining differences , such as whether to include stored warheads as russia wants or not include them as the us wants , the existing start treaty could simply be extended beyond its expiration date at the end of the year .
as an alternative , another similar treaty could be signed until a more ambitious arms deal is reached in a second round of talks .
different categories of nuclear powers bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : barack obama has a long-term vision of a nuclear weapon free world while the prospects to strike a deal with russia look positive , president barack obama has a much loftier vision which he announced in his speech in prague in april : a world free of nuclear weapons .
but could a new arms control agreement between the us and russia , which combined possess at least 90 percent of all nuclear weapons , really put that much pressure on other nuclear powers and launch a global trend towards nuclear disarmament ?
miles pomper , a senior research associate at the center for non-proliferation studies , cautions against unrealistic expectations of a russian-american arms deal on other nations with nuclear weapons .
" what it might do is within the non-proliferation treaty process it would convince other countries of the goodwill of the united states and russia to meet their commitments to make steps toward nuclear disarmament and by doing that those other countries could increase the pressure on the irans and north koreas -lrb- of this world -rrb- to comply with their non-proliferation commitments .
but it 's not a kind of direct correlation . "
the experts point out that it is important to consider that the countries possessing nuclear weapons ca n't simply be lumped together .
the first category of nations , consisting of the states recognized by the nuclear non-proliferation treaty , includes france , britain and china .
getting them involved in arms reduction negotiations would probably be easier than to approach the second group of countries , consisting of india , pakistan , israel and north korea , states that are not formally recognized by the non-proliferation treaty .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : iran and north korea are a risk to regional security , the west says of the official nuclear powers , britain and china tend to be open towards international nuclear disarmament while france has taken a more reluctant stance towards disarmament .
british prime minister gordon brown was speaking about a nuclear free world even before barack obama and china traditionally had voiced a preference for a nuclear weapons free world , the experts point out . it 's a whole different story with the group of unofficial nuclear states .
with them it 's all about regional security , says oliver meier .
" if you go talk about israel of course you have the problem of the middle east , you have the problem of iran and very much will depend on what progress is made in the middle east .
" india and pakistan , of course you have the situation in south asia , the rivalry between those states .
and north korea is anybody 's bet .
that is at the moment very difficult to predict what policy north korea is pursuing . "
political climate has changed bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some in nuclear-armed pakistan harbor hatred of the us and india while it is helpful to keep obama 's vision - a nuclear free world - in mind , it is important to focus on the concrete steps that have to be taken first by russia and the us .
to merely amend or extend the existing start treaty in a first round of negotiations will take time .
to hammer out a new deal with more aggressive cuts in nuclear weapons will require even more patience , says miles pomper .
" just those two negotiations might take all of obama 's first term , assuming there 's a second term .
so i think until you get those you ca n't really judge the third round and maybe bringing other countries into the negotiations . "
obama of course knows himself that the goal of a nuclear free world is a political marathon , not a sprint .
in his speech in prague , he admitted that this goal may not be reached in his lifetime .
still , the global political conditions for a long time have n't been as conducive to nuclear arms reductions as they are right now .
" we now have from a range of people and governments a list of proposals how to move forward towards that goal , " argues oliver meier .
" for the first time in many , many years we have that discussion being led by a range of political actors , but also by the public , who have not taken this goal serious before .
and of course to have the united states in the leadership role has changed the political dynamics a lot . "
author : michael knigge editor : robert mudge send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de obama calls for end to nuclear weapons in prague speech us president barack obama has announced ambitious plans to rid the world of nuclear weapons at a speech in prague .
yet his support for a controversial us missile shield in eastern europe could anger russia .
-lrb- 05.04.2009 -rrb- five security council powers , germany offer direct dialog with iran the five permanent members of the un security council and germany on tuesday offered direct dialogue with iran to solve the ongoing nuclear standoff with the islamic republic .
-lrb- 04.03.2009 -rrb- iran 's new missiles add to europe 's nuclear worries iran alarmed the international community this week by using newly-developed missile technology to launch a satellite into space .
envoys from six countries are meeting in germany on wednesday to plan a response .
-lrb- 04.02.2009 -rrb- north korea says it has reactivated its nuclear program pyongyang says it has reactivated its nuclear program to " bolster the deterrence for self-defence in every way to cope with the increasing military threats from the hostile forces . " -lrb- 25.04.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live more talks fresh from their us talks , israelis and palestinians meet again on their elusive quest for peace .
watch the video afghan elections the us commander in afghanistan , general petraeus , wants more nato troops ahead of elections .
watch the video learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan new web site check out deutsche welle 's new asia page in english .
dw asia online news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's newest media partner latin america take a multimedia journey discover the region and its people © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
us-russia arms control deal first step towards global disarmament -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 29.11.2010 home news germany europe world from tierra del fuego to tijuana asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de defense -pipe- 07.05.2009 us-russia arms control deal first step towards global disarmament großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : moscow and washington want to curb nuclear proliferation us and russian officials will begin to negotiate a deal to cut their nuclear weapons arsenals in the coming weeks .
if they succeed , it could convince other nuclear powers to follow suit . the goal is clear and shared by both countries .
russia and the us want to reduce their number of nuclear missiles and replace the old bilateral start arms reduction treaty , which will expire at the end of the year , with a new arms control pact .
a preliminary meeting between the two sides has been described by the russian foreign ministry as " constructive " and " businesslike , " increasing the expectations for a positive outcome .
" i think generally the chances for success are very good " , says oliver meier , international representative of the arms control association .
" both sides on the major issues are really not far apart .
they have the same ideas in mind in terms of overall reductions in warheads , " he added .
" they have the same preferences in terms of having a legally binding , verifiable treaty .
the problem is that the timetable is very challenging because they are aiming for an agreement in the next couple of months and that will be very tough . "
if , as expected , it takes longer to solve the remaining differences , such as whether to include stored warheads as russia wants or not include them as the us wants , the existing start treaty could simply be extended beyond its expiration date at the end of the year .
as an alternative , another similar treaty could be signed until a more ambitious arms deal is reached in a second round of talks .
different categories of nuclear powers bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : barack obama has a long-term vision of a nuclear weapon free world while the prospects to strike a deal with russia look positive , president barack obama has a much loftier vision which he announced in his speech in prague in april : a world free of nuclear weapons .
but could a new arms control agreement between the us and russia , which combined possess at least 90 percent of all nuclear weapons , really put that much pressure on other nuclear powers and launch a global trend towards nuclear disarmament ?
miles pomper , a senior research associate at the center for non-proliferation studies , cautions against unrealistic expectations of a russian-american arms deal on other nations with nuclear weapons .
" what it might do is within the non-proliferation treaty process it would convince other countries of the goodwill of the united states and russia to meet their commitments to make steps toward nuclear disarmament and by doing that those other countries could increase the pressure on the irans and north koreas -lrb- of this world -rrb- to comply with their non-proliferation commitments .
but it 's not a kind of direct correlation . "
the experts point out that it is important to consider that the countries possessing nuclear weapons ca n't simply be lumped together .
the first category of nations , consisting of the states recognized by the nuclear non-proliferation treaty , includes france , britain and china .
getting them involved in arms reduction negotiations would probably be easier than to approach the second group of countries , consisting of india , pakistan , israel and north korea , states that are not formally recognized by the non-proliferation treaty .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : iran and north korea are a risk to regional security , the west says of the official nuclear powers , britain and china tend to be open towards international nuclear disarmament while france has taken a more reluctant stance towards disarmament .
british prime minister gordon brown was speaking about a nuclear free world even before barack obama and china traditionally had voiced a preference for a nuclear weapons free world , the experts point out . it 's a whole different story with the group of unofficial nuclear states .
with them it 's all about regional security , says oliver meier .
" if you go talk about israel of course you have the problem of the middle east , you have the problem of iran and very much will depend on what progress is made in the middle east .
" india and pakistan , of course you have the situation in south asia , the rivalry between those states .
and north korea is anybody 's bet .
that is at the moment very difficult to predict what policy north korea is pursuing . "
political climate has changed bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some in nuclear-armed pakistan harbor hatred of the us and india while it is helpful to keep obama 's vision - a nuclear free world - in mind , it is important to focus on the concrete steps that have to be taken first by russia and the us .
to merely amend or extend the existing start treaty in a first round of negotiations will take time .
to hammer out a new deal with more aggressive cuts in nuclear weapons will require even more patience , says miles pomper .
" just those two negotiations might take all of obama 's first term , assuming there 's a second term .
so i think until you get those you ca n't really judge the third round and maybe bringing other countries into the negotiations . "
obama of course knows himself that the goal of a nuclear free world is a political marathon , not a sprint .
in his speech in prague , he admitted that this goal may not be reached in his lifetime .
still , the global political conditions for a long time have n't been as conducive to nuclear arms reductions as they are right now .
" we now have from a range of people and governments a list of proposals how to move forward towards that goal , " argues oliver meier .
" for the first time in many , many years we have that discussion being led by a range of political actors , but also by the public , who have not taken this goal serious before .
and of course to have the united states in the leadership role has changed the political dynamics a lot . "
author : michael knigge editor : robert mudge send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de obama calls for end to nuclear weapons in prague speech us president barack obama has announced ambitious plans to rid the world of nuclear weapons at a speech in prague .
yet his support for a controversial us missile shield in eastern europe could anger russia .
-lrb- 05.04.2009 -rrb- five security council powers , germany offer direct dialog with iran the five permanent members of the un security council and germany on tuesday offered direct dialogue with iran to solve the ongoing nuclear standoff with the islamic republic .
-lrb- 04.03.2009 -rrb- iran 's new missiles add to europe 's nuclear worries iran alarmed the international community this week by using newly-developed missile technology to launch a satellite into space .
envoys from six countries are meeting in germany on wednesday to plan a response .
-lrb- 04.02.2009 -rrb- north korea says it has reactivated its nuclear program pyongyang says it has reactivated its nuclear program to " bolster the deterrence for self-defence in every way to cope with the increasing military threats from the hostile forces . " -lrb- 25.04.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live kultur.21 we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live hits in germany pop from the top 100 listen live learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan new web site check out deutsche welle 's new asia page in english .
dw asia online latin america take a multimedia journey discover the region and its people news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's newest media partner © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
deutsche telekom posts large first-quarter loss -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 22.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de communications -pipe- 07.05.2009 deutsche telekom posts large first-quarter loss großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the loss brings dark clouds to deutsche telekom germany 's telecommunications operator , deutsche telekom , has blamed the economic downturn and intense competition for its first quarter loss of 1.12 billion euros . the bonn-based company announced the big loss for the january-march period , and compared it to the net profit of 924 million euros -lrb- $ 1.2 billion -rrb- it posted in the first quarter of 2008 .
it attributed the loss to a devaluation of its british t-mobile unit and " the strong economic slowdown and more intense competition in the united kingdom . "
however , in a written statement , the telecommunications giant announced it had an increase in total sales , up 6.2 percent on the same period last year .
that was explained by the integration of greek telecom operator ote into deutsche telekom 's books in february .
" the figures we are presenting today show a mixed picture , " deutsche telekom chairman rene obermann said .
" despite the difficult environment in some markets , we are in a relatively stable position , " he added .
meanwhile , the financial times deutschland has reported that telekom plans job cuts in its t-systems unit , saying that 1,500 workers will be laid off .
rene obermann has denied the report . cg / dfm / rm , afp / ap send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de t-mobile rules out compensation after network failure germany 's largest mobile phone operator has ruled out paying compensation after an embarrassing outage in its network left millions of customers without service .
-lrb- 23.04.2009 -rrb- deutsche bank extends ceo 's contract amid first-quarter profits deutsche bank chief josef ackermann has agreed to another three years at the helm , while the bank made good on disastrous 2008 figures by posting impressive first quarter profits .
-lrb- 28.04.2009 -rrb- germany 's munich re posts 2008 profit of 1.5 billion euros munich re , the world 's second biggest re-insurance group , on wednesday posted a net profit of 1.5 billion euros -lrb- $ 1.9 billion -rrb- for 2008 , with a slight gain of around 100 million euros in the last quarter .
-lrb- 04.02.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live europa aktuell we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live world in progress development in a globalized world listen live stock exchange today in history 1984 : kohl and mitterrand in verdun © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
deutsche telekom posts large first-quarter loss -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 28.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de communications -pipe- 07.05.2009 deutsche telekom posts large first-quarter loss großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the loss brings dark clouds to deutsche telekom germany 's telecommunications operator , deutsche telekom , has blamed the economic downturn and intense competition for its first quarter loss of 1.12 billion euros . the bonn-based company announced the big loss for the january-march period , and compared it to the net profit of 924 million euros -lrb- $ 1.2 billion -rrb- it posted in the first quarter of 2008 .
it attributed the loss to a devaluation of its british t-mobile unit and " the strong economic slowdown and more intense competition in the united kingdom . "
however , in a written statement , the telecommunications giant announced it had an increase in total sales , up 6.2 percent on the same period last year .
that was explained by the integration of greek telecom operator ote into deutsche telekom 's books in february .
" the figures we are presenting today show a mixed picture , " deutsche telekom chairman rene obermann said .
" despite the difficult environment in some markets , we are in a relatively stable position , " he added .
meanwhile , the financial times deutschland has reported that telekom plans job cuts in its t-systems unit , saying that 1,500 workers will be laid off .
rene obermann has denied the report . cg / dfm / rm , afp / ap send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de t-mobile rules out compensation after network failure germany 's largest mobile phone operator has ruled out paying compensation after an embarrassing outage in its network left millions of customers without service .
-lrb- 23.04.2009 -rrb- deutsche bank extends ceo 's contract amid first-quarter profits deutsche bank chief josef ackermann has agreed to another three years at the helm , while the bank made good on disastrous 2008 figures by posting impressive first quarter profits .
-lrb- 28.04.2009 -rrb- germany 's munich re posts 2008 profit of 1.5 billion euros munich re , the world 's second biggest re-insurance group , on wednesday posted a net profit of 1.5 billion euros -lrb- $ 1.9 billion -rrb- for 2008 , with a slight gain of around 100 million euros in the last quarter .
-lrb- 04.02.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live stock exchange today in history 1934 : the " long march " begins © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
eu approves commerzbank bailout -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 10.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business 125 years automobile science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de banking -pipe- 07.05.2009 eu approves commerzbank bailout großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : commerzbank was the first german bank to tap into the government 's rescue fund brussels has approved an 18-billion-euro government bailout of germany ’ s second largest bank .
the eu had requested assurances that the money will not give the bank an unfair edge over competitors . part of the money is already on commerzbank 's balance sheets after berlin injected 8 billion euros -lrb- $ 10.6 billion -rrb- into the bank in december last year .
now , commerzbank stands to receive another 10 billion euros of fresh capital .
berlin however needed the approval of brussels and on thursday the eu commission gave its green light .
" on the basis of the notified plans , the commission is satisfied that commerzbank 's long term viability has been demonstrated , and that the aid is kept to the minimum and will not lead to undue distortions of competition .
it has therefore declared the aid compatible , " the eu executive said in a statement .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : frankfurt 's skyline of bank headquarters was rocked by the global finacial crisis but the government aid will be tied to strict restructuring conditions .
commerzbank will have to sell its eurohypo unit , a major european player in the real estate business .
in addition , the bank will be banned for three years from buying other financial institutes that it competes with .
commerzbank , which is germany 's second largest private bank with a balance sheet total of 1,100 billion euros of capital , ran into financial trouble as a result of the global credit crunch .
berlin has welcomed the decision from brussels .
a government spokeswoman said it was " an important step to strengthen the trust in the government 's bailout fund . "
in the wake of the global financial crisis , germany has created a 470-billion-euro rescue fund to support the struggling sector . ai / rm , dpa / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de conditions for commerzbank aid package appear to be set the european commission has set conditions for commerzbank to get an 18 billion euros -lrb- $ 23 billion -rrb- rescue package from the german government .
the bank is expected to shed its eurohypo unit .
-lrb- 22.04.2009 -rrb- german government takes large stake in commerzbank the german government has agreed to take a 25-percent share in commerzbank .
the move signals the first time the government has taken a stake in a major private bank and comes as commerzbank is set to buy dresdner bank .
-lrb- 09.01.2009 -rrb- merkel seeks to make bank bailouts more attractive germany 's rescue package for struggling banks may be in for a revamp to make it more appealing to financial institutions that have so far rejected it , german media reported tuesday .
-lrb- 02.12.2008 -rrb- 9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-tv europe live fit & gesund - das gesundheitsmagazin we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live living planet saving reefs and battling dams listen live stock exchange today in history 1943 : ballpoint pen patented dw-tv get an inside look at some of germany 's more unusual companies .
flying the german flag - costly voyages for shipping companies captains in the classroom - rostock 's maritime school organbuilding - the art and craft of the perfect sound saving makes cents – new heating technology for industry © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
eu approves commerzbank bailout -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 16.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business 125 years automobile science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de banking -pipe- 07.05.2009 eu approves commerzbank bailout großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : commerzbank was the first german bank to tap into the government 's rescue fund brussels has approved an 18-billion-euro government bailout of germany ’ s second largest bank .
the eu had requested assurances that the money will not give the bank an unfair edge over competitors . part of the money is already on commerzbank 's balance sheets after berlin injected 8 billion euros -lrb- $ 10.6 billion -rrb- into the bank in december last year .
now , commerzbank stands to receive another 10 billion euros of fresh capital .
berlin however needed the approval of brussels and on thursday the eu commission gave its green light .
" on the basis of the notified plans , the commission is satisfied that commerzbank 's long term viability has been demonstrated , and that the aid is kept to the minimum and will not lead to undue distortions of competition .
it has therefore declared the aid compatible , " the eu executive said in a statement .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : frankfurt 's skyline of bank headquarters was rocked by the global finacial crisis but the government aid will be tied to strict restructuring conditions .
commerzbank will have to sell its eurohypo unit , a major european player in the real estate business .
in addition , the bank will be banned for three years from buying other financial institutes that it competes with .
commerzbank , which is germany 's second largest private bank with a balance sheet total of 1,100 billion euros of capital , ran into financial trouble as a result of the global credit crunch .
berlin has welcomed the decision from brussels .
a government spokeswoman said it was " an important step to strengthen the trust in the government 's bailout fund . "
in the wake of the global financial crisis , germany has created a 470-billion-euro rescue fund to support the struggling sector . ai / rm , dpa / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de conditions for commerzbank aid package appear to be set the european commission has set conditions for commerzbank to get an 18 billion euros -lrb- $ 23 billion -rrb- rescue package from the german government .
the bank is expected to shed its eurohypo unit .
-lrb- 22.04.2009 -rrb- german government takes large stake in commerzbank the german government has agreed to take a 25-percent share in commerzbank .
the move signals the first time the government has taken a stake in a major private bank and comes as commerzbank is set to buy dresdner bank .
-lrb- 09.01.2009 -rrb- merkel seeks to make bank bailouts more attractive germany 's rescue package for struggling banks may be in for a revamp to make it more appealing to financial institutions that have so far rejected it , german media reported tuesday .
-lrb- 02.12.2008 -rrb- 9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit interview we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live stock exchange today in history 1918 : the murder of the tsar family dw-tv get an inside look at some of germany 's more unusual companies .
flying the german flag - costly voyages for shipping companies captains in the classroom - rostock 's maritime school organbuilding - the art and craft of the perfect sound saving makes cents – new heating technology for industry © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
eu approves commerzbank bailout -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 01.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de banking -pipe- 07.05.2009 eu approves commerzbank bailout großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : commerzbank was the first german bank to tap into the government 's rescue fund brussels has approved an 18-billion-euro government bailout of germany ’ s second largest bank .
the eu had requested assurances that the money will not give the bank an unfair edge over competitors . part of the money is already on commerzbank 's balance sheets after berlin injected 8 billion euros -lrb- $ 10.6 billion -rrb- into the bank in december last year .
now , commerzbank stands to receive another 10 billion euros of fresh capital .
berlin however needed the approval of brussels and on thursday the eu commission gave its green light .
" on the basis of the notified plans , the commission is satisfied that commerzbank 's long term viability has been demonstrated , and that the aid is kept to the minimum and will not lead to undue distortions of competition .
it has therefore declared the aid compatible , " the eu executive said in a statement .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : frankfurt 's skyline of bank headquarters was rocked by the global finacial crisis but the government aid will be tied to strict restructuring conditions .
commerzbank will have to sell its eurohypo unit , a major european player in the real estate business .
in addition , the bank will be banned for three years from buying other financial institutes that it competes with .
commerzbank , which is germany 's second largest private bank with a balance sheet total of 1,100 billion euros of capital , ran into financial trouble as a result of the global credit crunch .
berlin has welcomed the decision from brussels .
a government spokeswoman said it was " an important step to strengthen the trust in the government 's bailout fund . "
in the wake of the global financial crisis , germany has created a 470-billion-euro rescue fund to support the struggling sector . ai / rm , dpa / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de conditions for commerzbank aid package appear to be set the european commission has set conditions for commerzbank to get an 18 billion euros -lrb- $ 23 billion -rrb- rescue package from the german government .
the bank is expected to shed its eurohypo unit .
-lrb- 22.04.2009 -rrb- german government takes large stake in commerzbank the german government has agreed to take a 25-percent share in commerzbank .
the move signals the first time the government has taken a stake in a major private bank and comes as commerzbank is set to buy dresdner bank .
-lrb- 09.01.2009 -rrb- merkel seeks to make bank bailouts more attractive germany 's rescue package for struggling banks may be in for a revamp to make it more appealing to financial institutions that have so far rejected it , german media reported tuesday .
-lrb- 02.12.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live stock exchange today in history 1946 : penicillin production in germany © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
eu approves commerzbank bailout -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 15.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de banking -pipe- 07.05.2009 eu approves commerzbank bailout großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : commerzbank was the first german bank to tap into the government 's rescue fund brussels has approved an 18-billion-euro government bailout of germany ’ s second largest bank .
the eu had requested assurances that the money will not give the bank an unfair edge over competitors . part of the money is already on commerzbank 's balance sheets after berlin injected 8 billion euros -lrb- $ 10.6 billion -rrb- into the bank in december last year .
now , commerzbank stands to receive another 10 billion euros of fresh capital .
berlin however needed the approval of brussels and on thursday the eu commission gave its green light .
" on the basis of the notified plans , the commission is satisfied that commerzbank 's long term viability has been demonstrated , and that the aid is kept to the minimum and will not lead to undue distortions of competition .
it has therefore declared the aid compatible , " the eu executive said in a statement .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : frankfurt 's skyline of bank headquarters was rocked by the global finacial crisis but the government aid will be tied to strict restructuring conditions .
commerzbank will have to sell its eurohypo unit , a major european player in the real estate business .
in addition , the bank will be banned for three years from buying other financial institutes that it competes with .
commerzbank , which is germany 's second largest private bank with a balance sheet total of 1,100 billion euros of capital , ran into financial trouble as a result of the global credit crunch .
berlin has welcomed the decision from brussels .
a government spokeswoman said it was " an important step to strengthen the trust in the government 's bailout fund . "
in the wake of the global financial crisis , germany has created a 470-billion-euro rescue fund to support the struggling sector . ai / rm , dpa / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de conditions for commerzbank aid package appear to be set the european commission has set conditions for commerzbank to get an 18 billion euros -lrb- $ 23 billion -rrb- rescue package from the german government .
the bank is expected to shed its eurohypo unit .
-lrb- 22.04.2009 -rrb- german government takes large stake in commerzbank the german government has agreed to take a 25-percent share in commerzbank .
the move signals the first time the government has taken a stake in a major private bank and comes as commerzbank is set to buy dresdner bank .
-lrb- 09.01.2009 -rrb- merkel seeks to make bank bailouts more attractive germany 's rescue package for struggling banks may be in for a revamp to make it more appealing to financial institutions that have so far rejected it , german media reported tuesday .
-lrb- 02.12.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live people and politics we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live european business week making europe 's business your business listen live stock exchange today in history 1917 : mata hari executed © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
eu approves commerzbank bailout -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de banking -pipe- 07.05.2009 eu approves commerzbank bailout großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : commerzbank was the first german bank to tap into the government 's rescue fund brussels has approved an 18-billion-euro government bailout of germany ’ s second largest bank .
the eu had requested assurances that the money will not give the bank an unfair edge over competitors . part of the money is already on commerzbank 's balance sheets after berlin injected 8 billion euros -lrb- $ 10.6 billion -rrb- into the bank in december last year .
now , commerzbank stands to receive another 10 billion euros of fresh capital .
berlin however needed the approval of brussels and on thursday the eu commission gave its green light .
" on the basis of the notified plans , the commission is satisfied that commerzbank 's long term viability has been demonstrated , and that the aid is kept to the minimum and will not lead to undue distortions of competition .
it has therefore declared the aid compatible , " the eu executive said in a statement .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : frankfurt 's skyline of bank headquarters was rocked by the global finacial crisis but the government aid will be tied to strict restructuring conditions .
commerzbank will have to sell its eurohypo unit , a major european player in the real estate business .
in addition , the bank will be banned for three years from buying other financial institutes that it competes with .
commerzbank , which is germany 's second largest private bank with a balance sheet total of 1,100 billion euros of capital , ran into financial trouble as a result of the global credit crunch .
berlin has welcomed the decision from brussels .
a government spokeswoman said it was " an important step to strengthen the trust in the government 's bailout fund . "
in the wake of the global financial crisis , germany has created a 470-billion-euro rescue fund to support the struggling sector . ai / rm , dpa / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de conditions for commerzbank aid package appear to be set the european commission has set conditions for commerzbank to get an 18 billion euros -lrb- $ 23 billion -rrb- rescue package from the german government .
the bank is expected to shed its eurohypo unit .
-lrb- 22.04.2009 -rrb- german government takes large stake in commerzbank the german government has agreed to take a 25-percent share in commerzbank .
the move signals the first time the government has taken a stake in a major private bank and comes as commerzbank is set to buy dresdner bank .
-lrb- 09.01.2009 -rrb- merkel seeks to make bank bailouts more attractive germany 's rescue package for struggling banks may be in for a revamp to make it more appealing to financial institutions that have so far rejected it , german media reported tuesday .
-lrb- 02.12.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live stock exchange today in history 1871 : foundation of the german reich © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
prague summit to launch " eastern partnership " -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 09.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de european ties -pipe- 07.05.2009 prague summit to launch " eastern partnership " großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the " eastern partnership " is the brain child of poland and sweden good neighborhood policy is normally on the agenda of the eu rotating presidency .
but the nation at the helm determines which neighbors take priority .
that sweden takes over soon is good news for the eu 's eastern flank . when france was in charge during the second half of 2008 , president nicolas sarkozy made relations with his country 's mediterranean rim neighbors the cornerstone of his six month eu presidency .
membership in sarkozy 's " club med " was based on sharing a common mediterranean coastline , so morocco , turkey , israel and syria met the geographical criteria .
the idea was to provide an eu-mediterranean forum for tackling regional issues such as illegal boat migration from africa , combating terrorism and cleaning up the polluted sea .
the mediterranean union 's inaugural summit last july represented a milestone in bringing the heads of state of israel and its middle east adversaries together in paris , but the french eu initiative had already lost steam by the start of the czech republic 's presidency in january 2009 .
now with less than two months left of prague 's beleaguered eu presidency , the 27 nation bloc 's priorities have shifted northwards and eastwards geographically .
czech prime minister mirek topolanek was ousted last month and will be replaced on may 8 by an interim government .
topolanek 's successor jan fischer takes over the day after the eu launches its " eastern partnership " -lrb- ep -rrb- with six post-soviet states- armenia , azerbaijan , belarus , georgia , moldova and ukraine- at a summit in prague on may 7 .
eu wants stable eastern neighbors bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : eu commission president jose manuel barroso and his commissioners do n't want a new " iron curtain " eu officials say that the goal of the initiative is to help stabilize and modernize the states created from the break-up of the former soviet union by bringing in free markets and pro-democracy reforms .
the russia-georgia war last august over the breakaway province of south ossetia further underscored the eu 's need to " engage more deeply with its eastern neighbors to stabilize the region , " says sabine fischer , a russia and cis expert at the eu institute for security studies -lrb- euiss -rrb- in paris . then there is belarus , formerly called belorussia or white russia , which the eu has long regarded as the black sheep of the post-soviet cis states .
its president alexander lukashenko , who earned the reputation of being " europe 's last dictator " for his government 's dubious human rights record , had even been placed under an eu travel ban , which was lifted last october .
but now that lukaschenko has said he wants to normalize " difficult " relations with the eu , belarus has been invited to participate in the prague summit on a technical level .
however lukaschenko himself will not attend the summit sending instead his deputy vladimir semachko .
russia makes some noise bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : russian foreign minister sergey lavrov speaks out at last month 's annual brussels forum meeting in brussels since belarus is one of the kremlin 's closest allies , russia foreign minister sergei lavrov expressed his dismay over the eastern partnership at a meeting with eu diplomats in luxembourg on april 28 , saying that " any processes leading to developments within the eu … should ensure no overlap in the post-soviet area . " although moscow 's political leaders see an encroachment on their former " sphere of influence " , their bark is louder than their bite , according to russia analysts .
" russia 's political leadership does not really feel threatened by the eu 's rapprochement with the post-soviet states , " said fischer .
" its leaders are more relaxed with the eu , as opposed to nato , " she added .
stefan meister of the german council on foreign relations -lrb- dgap -rrb- who sees the eastern partnership as a regional grouping similar to the mediterranean union , thinks that lavrov might have felt slighted by being left out of the new initiative .
" but he also understands that this can be a typical eu initiative with a lot of talk , but maybe not much happening , " he said .
extension of existing eu structure the eastern partnership , which would be embedded in an existing structure called the european neighbourhood policy -lrb- enp -rrb- , emerged last year as the brainchild of poland and sweden .
enp was created in 2004 when the eu expanded eastwards to include the former soviet satellite states in the bloc , whose membership jumped from 15 to 25 .
romania and bulgaria later joined the eu in 2007 .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : south ossetian separatist fighters celebrate russian recognition of the breakaway georgian territories of south ossetia and abkhazia its initial objective was to minimize the impact of a new iron curtain between the enlarged eu and the neighboring post-soviet states even further east , by offering a privileged partnership based on a commitment to democratic values and market principles .
the eastern partnership builds up a stronger regional dimension that goes further than the enp , says oksana antonenko , a senior russia analyst at the international institute for strategic studies in london .
enp offers bilateral relations with all countries that border the entire eu by land and sea , including the mediterranean union countries , whereas the ep is a multilateral agreement involving only six countries , she explained .
" the ep opens the door to potentially deeper multi-speed integration with the eu on matters such as visa-free travel or free trade , " said antonenko , who explained that member states could keep progressing to a higher level of cooperation with the eu " a la carte " on a specific issue .
not a stepping stone to join the eu the partnership offers carrots to encourage political and economic reforms , but it is not a stepping stone to eventual eu membership , says dgap 's meister , who characterizes the ep as an alternative to joining the eu .
" it brings the six -lrb- cis -rrb- states closer to the value system of the eu and offers them something like a customs union , but maybe not what they really want - the perspective of eu membership down the road , " he said .
ukraine is eager to join the eu club , but the bloc is suffering from enlargement fatigue and the lisbon treaty , that is supposed to streamline decision-making , still hangs in the balance . one of the lisbon treaty 's goals is to create a more permanent eu presidency filled by a high profile politician for a period of two-and-a-half years to replace the current six month rotating system . when the czech term ends at the end of june , the swedes will take over , a stroke of luck for the eastern partnership , according to fischer .
" the swedes are going to put a strong emphasis on this -lrb- northeastern -rrb- region , " she said .
" after all , the ep was their initiative . " author : diana fong editor : susan houlton send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ? 9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
revolution calling women have played a crucial role in the arab uprisings , using the internet to spread the message .
watch the video security concerns there is a growing connection between security and natural resources .
listen to the interview podcast series life without the arts would be a lot less colorful , but guides like lukas help experience the arts .
download the podcast international conference media representatives around the world gather in bonn to discuss human rights .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
prague summit to launch " eastern partnership " -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.10.2010 home news germany europe world from tierra del fuego to tijuana asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de european ties -pipe- 07.05.2009 prague summit to launch " eastern partnership " großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the " eastern partnership " is the brain child of poland and sweden good neighborhood policy is normally on the agenda of the eu rotating presidency .
but the nation at the helm determines which neighbors take priority .
that sweden takes over soon is good news for the eu 's eastern flank . when france was in charge during the second half of 2008 , president nicolas sarkozy made relations with his country 's mediterranean rim neighbors the cornerstone of his six month eu presidency .
membership in sarkozy 's " club med " was based on sharing a common mediterranean coastline , so morocco , turkey , israel and syria met the geographical criteria .
the idea was to provide an eu-mediterranean forum for tackling regional issues such as illegal boat migration from africa , combating terrorism and cleaning up the polluted sea .
the mediterranean union 's inaugural summit last july represented a milestone in bringing the heads of state of israel and its middle east adversaries together in paris , but the french eu initiative had already lost steam by the start of the czech republic 's presidency in january 2009 .
now with less than two months left of prague 's beleaguered eu presidency , the 27 nation bloc 's priorities have shifted northwards and eastwards geographically .
czech prime minister mirek topolanek was ousted last month and will be replaced on may 8 by an interim government .
topolanek 's successor jan fischer takes over the day after the eu launches its " eastern partnership " -lrb- ep -rrb- with six post-soviet states- armenia , azerbaijan , belarus , georgia , moldova and ukraine- at a summit in prague on may 7 .
eu wants stable eastern neighbors bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : eu commission president jose manuel barroso and his commissioners do n't want a new " iron curtain " eu officials say that the goal of the initiative is to help stabilize and modernize the states created from the break-up of the former soviet union by bringing in free markets and pro-democracy reforms .
the russia-georgia war last august over the breakaway province of south ossetia further underscored the eu 's need to " engage more deeply with its eastern neighbors to stabilize the region , " says sabine fischer , a russia and cis expert at the eu institute for security studies -lrb- euiss -rrb- in paris . then there is belarus , formerly called belorussia or white russia , which the eu has long regarded as the black sheep of the post-soviet cis states .
its president alexander lukashenko , who earned the reputation of being " europe 's last dictator " for his government 's dubious human rights record , had even been placed under an eu travel ban , which was lifted last october .
but now that lukaschenko has said he wants to normalize " difficult " relations with the eu , belarus has been invited to participate in the prague summit on a technical level .
however lukaschenko himself will not attend the summit sending instead his deputy vladimir semachko .
russia makes some noise bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : russian foreign minister sergey lavrov speaks out at last month 's annual brussels forum meeting in brussels since belarus is one of the kremlin 's closest allies , russia foreign minister sergei lavrov expressed his dismay over the eastern partnership at a meeting with eu diplomats in luxembourg on april 28 , saying that " any processes leading to developments within the eu … should ensure no overlap in the post-soviet area . " although moscow 's political leaders see an encroachment on their former " sphere of influence " , their bark is louder than their bite , according to russia analysts .
" russia 's political leadership does not really feel threatened by the eu 's rapprochement with the post-soviet states , " said fischer .
" its leaders are more relaxed with the eu , as opposed to nato , " she added .
stefan meister of the german council on foreign relations -lrb- dgap -rrb- who sees the eastern partnership as a regional grouping similar to the mediterranean union , thinks that lavrov might have felt slighted by being left out of the new initiative .
" but he also understands that this can be a typical eu initiative with a lot of talk , but maybe not much happening , " he said .
extension of existing eu structure the eastern partnership , which would be embedded in an existing structure called the european neighbourhood policy -lrb- enp -rrb- , emerged last year as the brainchild of poland and sweden .
enp was created in 2004 when the eu expanded eastwards to include the former soviet satellite states in the bloc , whose membership jumped from 15 to 25 .
romania and bulgaria later joined the eu in 2007 .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : south ossetian separatist fighters celebrate russian recognition of the breakaway georgian territories of south ossetia and abkhazia its initial objective was to minimize the impact of a new iron curtain between the enlarged eu and the neighboring post-soviet states even further east , by offering a privileged partnership based on a commitment to democratic values and market principles .
the eastern partnership builds up a stronger regional dimension that goes further than the enp , says oksana antonenko , a senior russia analyst at the international institute for strategic studies in london .
enp offers bilateral relations with all countries that border the entire eu by land and sea , including the mediterranean union countries , whereas the ep is a multilateral agreement involving only six countries , she explained .
" the ep opens the door to potentially deeper multi-speed integration with the eu on matters such as visa-free travel or free trade , " said antonenko , who explained that member states could keep progressing to a higher level of cooperation with the eu " a la carte " on a specific issue .
not a stepping stone to join the eu the partnership offers carrots to encourage political and economic reforms , but it is not a stepping stone to eventual eu membership , says dgap 's meister , who characterizes the ep as an alternative to joining the eu .
" it brings the six -lrb- cis -rrb- states closer to the value system of the eu and offers them something like a customs union , but maybe not what they really want - the perspective of eu membership down the road , " he said .
ukraine is eager to join the eu club , but the bloc is suffering from enlargement fatigue and the lisbon treaty , that is supposed to streamline decision-making , still hangs in the balance . one of the lisbon treaty 's goals is to create a more permanent eu presidency filled by a high profile politician for a period of two-and-a-half years to replace the current six month rotating system . when the czech term ends at the end of june , the swedes will take over , a stroke of luck for the eastern partnership , according to fischer .
" the swedes are going to put a strong emphasis on this -lrb- northeastern -rrb- region , " she said .
" after all , the ep was their initiative . " author : diana fong editor : susan houlton send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live us elections us president obama 's democratic party faces an uphill battle in the upcoming midterm elections .
watch the video learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan new web site check out deutsche welle 's new asia page in english .
dw asia online news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's newest media partner latin america take a multimedia journey discover the region and its people © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
prague summit to launch " eastern partnership " -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.01.2011 home news germany europe world from tierra del fuego to tijuana asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de european ties -pipe- 07.05.2009 prague summit to launch " eastern partnership " großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the " eastern partnership " is the brain child of poland and sweden good neighborhood policy is normally on the agenda of the eu rotating presidency .
but the nation at the helm determines which neighbors take priority .
that sweden takes over soon is good news for the eu 's eastern flank . when france was in charge during the second half of 2008 , president nicolas sarkozy made relations with his country 's mediterranean rim neighbors the cornerstone of his six month eu presidency .
membership in sarkozy 's " club med " was based on sharing a common mediterranean coastline , so morocco , turkey , israel and syria met the geographical criteria .
the idea was to provide an eu-mediterranean forum for tackling regional issues such as illegal boat migration from africa , combating terrorism and cleaning up the polluted sea .
the mediterranean union 's inaugural summit last july represented a milestone in bringing the heads of state of israel and its middle east adversaries together in paris , but the french eu initiative had already lost steam by the start of the czech republic 's presidency in january 2009 .
now with less than two months left of prague 's beleaguered eu presidency , the 27 nation bloc 's priorities have shifted northwards and eastwards geographically .
czech prime minister mirek topolanek was ousted last month and will be replaced on may 8 by an interim government .
topolanek 's successor jan fischer takes over the day after the eu launches its " eastern partnership " -lrb- ep -rrb- with six post-soviet states- armenia , azerbaijan , belarus , georgia , moldova and ukraine- at a summit in prague on may 7 .
eu wants stable eastern neighbors bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : eu commission president jose manuel barroso and his commissioners do n't want a new " iron curtain " eu officials say that the goal of the initiative is to help stabilize and modernize the states created from the break-up of the former soviet union by bringing in free markets and pro-democracy reforms .
the russia-georgia war last august over the breakaway province of south ossetia further underscored the eu 's need to " engage more deeply with its eastern neighbors to stabilize the region , " says sabine fischer , a russia and cis expert at the eu institute for security studies -lrb- euiss -rrb- in paris . then there is belarus , formerly called belorussia or white russia , which the eu has long regarded as the black sheep of the post-soviet cis states .
its president alexander lukashenko , who earned the reputation of being " europe 's last dictator " for his government 's dubious human rights record , had even been placed under an eu travel ban , which was lifted last october .
but now that lukaschenko has said he wants to normalize " difficult " relations with the eu , belarus has been invited to participate in the prague summit on a technical level .
however lukaschenko himself will not attend the summit sending instead his deputy vladimir semachko .
russia makes some noise bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : russian foreign minister sergey lavrov speaks out at last month 's annual brussels forum meeting in brussels since belarus is one of the kremlin 's closest allies , russia foreign minister sergei lavrov expressed his dismay over the eastern partnership at a meeting with eu diplomats in luxembourg on april 28 , saying that " any processes leading to developments within the eu … should ensure no overlap in the post-soviet area . " although moscow 's political leaders see an encroachment on their former " sphere of influence " , their bark is louder than their bite , according to russia analysts .
" russia 's political leadership does not really feel threatened by the eu 's rapprochement with the post-soviet states , " said fischer .
" its leaders are more relaxed with the eu , as opposed to nato , " she added .
stefan meister of the german council on foreign relations -lrb- dgap -rrb- who sees the eastern partnership as a regional grouping similar to the mediterranean union , thinks that lavrov might have felt slighted by being left out of the new initiative .
" but he also understands that this can be a typical eu initiative with a lot of talk , but maybe not much happening , " he said .
extension of existing eu structure the eastern partnership , which would be embedded in an existing structure called the european neighbourhood policy -lrb- enp -rrb- , emerged last year as the brainchild of poland and sweden .
enp was created in 2004 when the eu expanded eastwards to include the former soviet satellite states in the bloc , whose membership jumped from 15 to 25 .
romania and bulgaria later joined the eu in 2007 .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : south ossetian separatist fighters celebrate russian recognition of the breakaway georgian territories of south ossetia and abkhazia its initial objective was to minimize the impact of a new iron curtain between the enlarged eu and the neighboring post-soviet states even further east , by offering a privileged partnership based on a commitment to democratic values and market principles .
the eastern partnership builds up a stronger regional dimension that goes further than the enp , says oksana antonenko , a senior russia analyst at the international institute for strategic studies in london .
enp offers bilateral relations with all countries that border the entire eu by land and sea , including the mediterranean union countries , whereas the ep is a multilateral agreement involving only six countries , she explained .
" the ep opens the door to potentially deeper multi-speed integration with the eu on matters such as visa-free travel or free trade , " said antonenko , who explained that member states could keep progressing to a higher level of cooperation with the eu " a la carte " on a specific issue .
not a stepping stone to join the eu the partnership offers carrots to encourage political and economic reforms , but it is not a stepping stone to eventual eu membership , says dgap 's meister , who characterizes the ep as an alternative to joining the eu .
" it brings the six -lrb- cis -rrb- states closer to the value system of the eu and offers them something like a customs union , but maybe not what they really want - the perspective of eu membership down the road , " he said .
ukraine is eager to join the eu club , but the bloc is suffering from enlargement fatigue and the lisbon treaty , that is supposed to streamline decision-making , still hangs in the balance . one of the lisbon treaty 's goals is to create a more permanent eu presidency filled by a high profile politician for a period of two-and-a-half years to replace the current six month rotating system . when the czech term ends at the end of june , the swedes will take over , a stroke of luck for the eastern partnership , according to fischer .
" the swedes are going to put a strong emphasis on this -lrb- northeastern -rrb- region , " she said .
" after all , the ep was their initiative . " author : diana fong editor : susan houlton send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
baby doc 's back the return of former haitian dictator ' baby doc ' duvalier could add to the country 's instability .
watch the video learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan latin america take a multimedia journey discover the region and its people news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's newest media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
prague summit to launch " eastern partnership " -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 15.09.2010 home news germany europe world from tierra del fuego to tijuana asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de european ties -pipe- 07.05.2009 prague summit to launch " eastern partnership " großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the " eastern partnership " is the brain child of poland and sweden good neighborhood policy is normally on the agenda of the eu rotating presidency .
but the nation at the helm determines which neighbors take priority .
that sweden takes over soon is good news for the eu 's eastern flank . when france was in charge during the second half of 2008 , president nicolas sarkozy made relations with his country 's mediterranean rim neighbors the cornerstone of his six month eu presidency .
membership in sarkozy 's " club med " was based on sharing a common mediterranean coastline , so morocco , turkey , israel and syria met the geographical criteria .
the idea was to provide an eu-mediterranean forum for tackling regional issues such as illegal boat migration from africa , combating terrorism and cleaning up the polluted sea .
the mediterranean union 's inaugural summit last july represented a milestone in bringing the heads of state of israel and its middle east adversaries together in paris , but the french eu initiative had already lost steam by the start of the czech republic 's presidency in january 2009 .
now with less than two months left of prague 's beleaguered eu presidency , the 27 nation bloc 's priorities have shifted northwards and eastwards geographically .
czech prime minister mirek topolanek was ousted last month and will be replaced on may 8 by an interim government .
topolanek 's successor jan fischer takes over the day after the eu launches its " eastern partnership " -lrb- ep -rrb- with six post-soviet states- armenia , azerbaijan , belarus , georgia , moldova and ukraine- at a summit in prague on may 7 .
eu wants stable eastern neighbors bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : eu commission president jose manuel barroso and his commissioners do n't want a new " iron curtain " eu officials say that the goal of the initiative is to help stabilize and modernize the states created from the break-up of the former soviet union by bringing in free markets and pro-democracy reforms .
the russia-georgia war last august over the breakaway province of south ossetia further underscored the eu 's need to " engage more deeply with its eastern neighbors to stabilize the region , " says sabine fischer , a russia and cis expert at the eu institute for security studies -lrb- euiss -rrb- in paris . then there is belarus , formerly called belorussia or white russia , which the eu has long regarded as the black sheep of the post-soviet cis states .
its president alexander lukashenko , who earned the reputation of being " europe 's last dictator " for his government 's dubious human rights record , had even been placed under an eu travel ban , which was lifted last october .
but now that lukaschenko has said he wants to normalize " difficult " relations with the eu , belarus has been invited to participate in the prague summit on a technical level .
however lukaschenko himself will not attend the summit sending instead his deputy vladimir semachko .
russia makes some noise bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : russian foreign minister sergey lavrov speaks out at last month 's annual brussels forum meeting in brussels since belarus is one of the kremlin 's closest allies , russia foreign minister sergei lavrov expressed his dismay over the eastern partnership at a meeting with eu diplomats in luxembourg on april 28 , saying that " any processes leading to developments within the eu … should ensure no overlap in the post-soviet area . " although moscow 's political leaders see an encroachment on their former " sphere of influence " , their bark is louder than their bite , according to russia analysts .
" russia 's political leadership does not really feel threatened by the eu 's rapprochement with the post-soviet states , " said fischer .
" its leaders are more relaxed with the eu , as opposed to nato , " she added .
stefan meister of the german council on foreign relations -lrb- dgap -rrb- who sees the eastern partnership as a regional grouping similar to the mediterranean union , thinks that lavrov might have felt slighted by being left out of the new initiative .
" but he also understands that this can be a typical eu initiative with a lot of talk , but maybe not much happening , " he said .
extension of existing eu structure the eastern partnership , which would be embedded in an existing structure called the european neighbourhood policy -lrb- enp -rrb- , emerged last year as the brainchild of poland and sweden .
enp was created in 2004 when the eu expanded eastwards to include the former soviet satellite states in the bloc , whose membership jumped from 15 to 25 .
romania and bulgaria later joined the eu in 2007 .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : south ossetian separatist fighters celebrate russian recognition of the breakaway georgian territories of south ossetia and abkhazia its initial objective was to minimize the impact of a new iron curtain between the enlarged eu and the neighboring post-soviet states even further east , by offering a privileged partnership based on a commitment to democratic values and market principles .
the eastern partnership builds up a stronger regional dimension that goes further than the enp , says oksana antonenko , a senior russia analyst at the international institute for strategic studies in london .
enp offers bilateral relations with all countries that border the entire eu by land and sea , including the mediterranean union countries , whereas the ep is a multilateral agreement involving only six countries , she explained .
" the ep opens the door to potentially deeper multi-speed integration with the eu on matters such as visa-free travel or free trade , " said antonenko , who explained that member states could keep progressing to a higher level of cooperation with the eu " a la carte " on a specific issue .
not a stepping stone to join the eu the partnership offers carrots to encourage political and economic reforms , but it is not a stepping stone to eventual eu membership , says dgap 's meister , who characterizes the ep as an alternative to joining the eu .
" it brings the six -lrb- cis -rrb- states closer to the value system of the eu and offers them something like a customs union , but maybe not what they really want - the perspective of eu membership down the road , " he said .
ukraine is eager to join the eu club , but the bloc is suffering from enlargement fatigue and the lisbon treaty , that is supposed to streamline decision-making , still hangs in the balance . one of the lisbon treaty 's goals is to create a more permanent eu presidency filled by a high profile politician for a period of two-and-a-half years to replace the current six month rotating system . when the czech term ends at the end of june , the swedes will take over , a stroke of luck for the eastern partnership , according to fischer .
" the swedes are going to put a strong emphasis on this -lrb- northeastern -rrb- region , " she said .
" after all , the ep was their initiative . " author : diana fong editor : susan houlton send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live pulse listen live more talks fresh from their us talks , israelis and palestinians meet again on their elusive quest for peace .
watch the video afghan elections the us commander in afghanistan , general petraeus , wants more nato troops ahead of elections .
watch the video learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan new web site check out deutsche welle 's new asia page in english .
dw asia online news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's newest media partner latin america take a multimedia journey discover the region and its people © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german industrial orders make surprise jump -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de business -pipe- 07.05.2009 german industrial orders make surprise jump großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : daimler truck factory in woerth - demand for german manufactured goods is up german industrial orders in march showed their first rise for six months , on the back of an increase in orders from abroad . preliminary government figures show that german industrial orders grew an unexpected 3.3 percent in march , driven by an increase in demand from abroad .
the rise - economists had expected a moderate fall for the world 's top exporter - is the first piece of hard data to back up the government 's prediction that the economy is set to grow slightly in 2010 .
the german economy is expected to experience negative growth of around six percent this year .
germany 's economics ministry said the seasonally adjusted rise did not even begin to make up for recent months , with orders for goods falling by 14.5 percent in the first quarter .
the ministry said , though , that the latest numbers showed the trend had changed .
the march increase compared with a 3.1 percent drop in february ; and was largely due to a 5.6 percent increase in orders from abroad .
domestic orders also grew by just over one percent .
the month-on-month climb in march was stronger than expected and indicated that europe 's biggest economy may already be on the rebound from the worst effects of the global recession .
however , the european commission slashed its economic projections on monday , saying europe 's economy would shrink by four per cent this year .
that 's double the figure that it predicted at the start of the year . ch / pfd , rtr / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german business confidence falls ; economists say turnaround near business confidence in europe 's largest economy has reached an all time low , but according to some economists , things could level out and even rebound in the coming months .
-lrb- 26.03.2009 -rrb- europe to lose 3.5 million jobs in 2009 , study says a new study by the eu commission says that jobless rolls in the european union will swell by a further 3.5 million this year as the global economic slowdown batters labor markets across europe .
-lrb- 18.02.2009 -rrb- airbus warns of " horrible " year ahead european aircraft manufacturing giant airbus expects a dismal year with orders plummeting as the global economic crisis hits the aviation industry .
-lrb- 15.01.2009 -rrb- 9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live global 3000 - das globalisierungsmagazin we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inspired minds listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
digital street art artists in berlin reinvent graffiti by projecting light onto buildings using computer systems .
watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german industrial orders make surprise jump -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 22.09.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de business -pipe- 07.05.2009 german industrial orders make surprise jump großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : daimler truck factory in woerth - demand for german manufactured goods is up german industrial orders in march showed their first rise for six months , on the back of an increase in orders from abroad . preliminary government figures show that german industrial orders grew an unexpected 3.3 percent in march , driven by an increase in demand from abroad .
the rise - economists had expected a moderate fall for the world 's top exporter - is the first piece of hard data to back up the government 's prediction that the economy is set to grow slightly in 2010 .
the german economy is expected to experience negative growth of around six percent this year .
germany 's economics ministry said the seasonally adjusted rise did not even begin to make up for recent months , with orders for goods falling by 14.5 percent in the first quarter .
the ministry said , though , that the latest numbers showed the trend had changed .
the march increase compared with a 3.1 percent drop in february ; and was largely due to a 5.6 percent increase in orders from abroad .
domestic orders also grew by just over one percent .
the month-on-month climb in march was stronger than expected and indicated that europe 's biggest economy may already be on the rebound from the worst effects of the global recession .
however , the european commission slashed its economic projections on monday , saying europe 's economy would shrink by four per cent this year .
that 's double the figure that it predicted at the start of the year . ch / pfd , rtr / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german business confidence falls ; economists say turnaround near business confidence in europe 's largest economy has reached an all time low , but according to some economists , things could level out and even rebound in the coming months .
-lrb- 26.03.2009 -rrb- europe to lose 3.5 million jobs in 2009 , study says a new study by the eu commission says that jobless rolls in the european union will swell by a further 3.5 million this year as the global economic slowdown batters labor markets across europe .
-lrb- 18.02.2009 -rrb- airbus warns of " horrible " year ahead european aircraft manufacturing giant airbus expects a dismal year with orders plummeting as the global economic crisis hits the aviation industry .
-lrb- 15.01.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live pulse listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
prague summit to launch " eastern partnership " -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 30.11.2010 home news germany europe world from tierra del fuego to tijuana asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de european ties -pipe- 07.05.2009 prague summit to launch " eastern partnership " großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the " eastern partnership " is the brain child of poland and sweden good neighborhood policy is normally on the agenda of the eu rotating presidency .
but the nation at the helm determines which neighbors take priority .
that sweden takes over soon is good news for the eu 's eastern flank . when france was in charge during the second half of 2008 , president nicolas sarkozy made relations with his country 's mediterranean rim neighbors the cornerstone of his six month eu presidency .
membership in sarkozy 's " club med " was based on sharing a common mediterranean coastline , so morocco , turkey , israel and syria met the geographical criteria .
the idea was to provide an eu-mediterranean forum for tackling regional issues such as illegal boat migration from africa , combating terrorism and cleaning up the polluted sea .
the mediterranean union 's inaugural summit last july represented a milestone in bringing the heads of state of israel and its middle east adversaries together in paris , but the french eu initiative had already lost steam by the start of the czech republic 's presidency in january 2009 .
now with less than two months left of prague 's beleaguered eu presidency , the 27 nation bloc 's priorities have shifted northwards and eastwards geographically .
czech prime minister mirek topolanek was ousted last month and will be replaced on may 8 by an interim government .
topolanek 's successor jan fischer takes over the day after the eu launches its " eastern partnership " -lrb- ep -rrb- with six post-soviet states- armenia , azerbaijan , belarus , georgia , moldova and ukraine- at a summit in prague on may 7 .
eu wants stable eastern neighbors bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : eu commission president jose manuel barroso and his commissioners do n't want a new " iron curtain " eu officials say that the goal of the initiative is to help stabilize and modernize the states created from the break-up of the former soviet union by bringing in free markets and pro-democracy reforms .
the russia-georgia war last august over the breakaway province of south ossetia further underscored the eu 's need to " engage more deeply with its eastern neighbors to stabilize the region , " says sabine fischer , a russia and cis expert at the eu institute for security studies -lrb- euiss -rrb- in paris . then there is belarus , formerly called belorussia or white russia , which the eu has long regarded as the black sheep of the post-soviet cis states .
its president alexander lukashenko , who earned the reputation of being " europe 's last dictator " for his government 's dubious human rights record , had even been placed under an eu travel ban , which was lifted last october .
but now that lukaschenko has said he wants to normalize " difficult " relations with the eu , belarus has been invited to participate in the prague summit on a technical level .
however lukaschenko himself will not attend the summit sending instead his deputy vladimir semachko .
russia makes some noise bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : russian foreign minister sergey lavrov speaks out at last month 's annual brussels forum meeting in brussels since belarus is one of the kremlin 's closest allies , russia foreign minister sergei lavrov expressed his dismay over the eastern partnership at a meeting with eu diplomats in luxembourg on april 28 , saying that " any processes leading to developments within the eu … should ensure no overlap in the post-soviet area . " although moscow 's political leaders see an encroachment on their former " sphere of influence " , their bark is louder than their bite , according to russia analysts .
" russia 's political leadership does not really feel threatened by the eu 's rapprochement with the post-soviet states , " said fischer .
" its leaders are more relaxed with the eu , as opposed to nato , " she added .
stefan meister of the german council on foreign relations -lrb- dgap -rrb- who sees the eastern partnership as a regional grouping similar to the mediterranean union , thinks that lavrov might have felt slighted by being left out of the new initiative .
" but he also understands that this can be a typical eu initiative with a lot of talk , but maybe not much happening , " he said .
extension of existing eu structure the eastern partnership , which would be embedded in an existing structure called the european neighbourhood policy -lrb- enp -rrb- , emerged last year as the brainchild of poland and sweden .
enp was created in 2004 when the eu expanded eastwards to include the former soviet satellite states in the bloc , whose membership jumped from 15 to 25 .
romania and bulgaria later joined the eu in 2007 .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : south ossetian separatist fighters celebrate russian recognition of the breakaway georgian territories of south ossetia and abkhazia its initial objective was to minimize the impact of a new iron curtain between the enlarged eu and the neighboring post-soviet states even further east , by offering a privileged partnership based on a commitment to democratic values and market principles .
the eastern partnership builds up a stronger regional dimension that goes further than the enp , says oksana antonenko , a senior russia analyst at the international institute for strategic studies in london .
enp offers bilateral relations with all countries that border the entire eu by land and sea , including the mediterranean union countries , whereas the ep is a multilateral agreement involving only six countries , she explained .
" the ep opens the door to potentially deeper multi-speed integration with the eu on matters such as visa-free travel or free trade , " said antonenko , who explained that member states could keep progressing to a higher level of cooperation with the eu " a la carte " on a specific issue .
not a stepping stone to join the eu the partnership offers carrots to encourage political and economic reforms , but it is not a stepping stone to eventual eu membership , says dgap 's meister , who characterizes the ep as an alternative to joining the eu .
" it brings the six -lrb- cis -rrb- states closer to the value system of the eu and offers them something like a customs union , but maybe not what they really want - the perspective of eu membership down the road , " he said .
ukraine is eager to join the eu club , but the bloc is suffering from enlargement fatigue and the lisbon treaty , that is supposed to streamline decision-making , still hangs in the balance . one of the lisbon treaty 's goals is to create a more permanent eu presidency filled by a high profile politician for a period of two-and-a-half years to replace the current six month rotating system . when the czech term ends at the end of june , the swedes will take over , a stroke of luck for the eastern partnership , according to fischer .
" the swedes are going to put a strong emphasis on this -lrb- northeastern -rrb- region , " she said .
" after all , the ep was their initiative . " author : diana fong editor : susan houlton send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live hits in germany pop from the top 100 listen live learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan new web site check out deutsche welle 's new asia page in english .
dw asia online latin america take a multimedia journey discover the region and its people news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's newest media partner © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german industrial orders make surprise jump -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.10.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de business -pipe- 07.05.2009 german industrial orders make surprise jump großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : daimler truck factory in woerth - demand for german manufactured goods is up german industrial orders in march showed their first rise for six months , on the back of an increase in orders from abroad . preliminary government figures show that german industrial orders grew an unexpected 3.3 percent in march , driven by an increase in demand from abroad .
the rise - economists had expected a moderate fall for the world 's top exporter - is the first piece of hard data to back up the government 's prediction that the economy is set to grow slightly in 2010 .
the german economy is expected to experience negative growth of around six percent this year .
germany 's economics ministry said the seasonally adjusted rise did not even begin to make up for recent months , with orders for goods falling by 14.5 percent in the first quarter .
the ministry said , though , that the latest numbers showed the trend had changed .
the march increase compared with a 3.1 percent drop in february ; and was largely due to a 5.6 percent increase in orders from abroad .
domestic orders also grew by just over one percent .
the month-on-month climb in march was stronger than expected and indicated that europe 's biggest economy may already be on the rebound from the worst effects of the global recession .
however , the european commission slashed its economic projections on monday , saying europe 's economy would shrink by four per cent this year .
that 's double the figure that it predicted at the start of the year . ch / pfd , rtr / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german business confidence falls ; economists say turnaround near business confidence in europe 's largest economy has reached an all time low , but according to some economists , things could level out and even rebound in the coming months .
-lrb- 26.03.2009 -rrb- europe to lose 3.5 million jobs in 2009 , study says a new study by the eu commission says that jobless rolls in the european union will swell by a further 3.5 million this year as the global economic slowdown batters labor markets across europe .
-lrb- 18.02.2009 -rrb- airbus warns of " horrible " year ahead european aircraft manufacturing giant airbus expects a dismal year with orders plummeting as the global economic crisis hits the aviation industry .
-lrb- 15.01.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german industrial orders make surprise jump -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 19.01.2011 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de business -pipe- 07.05.2009 german industrial orders make surprise jump großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : daimler truck factory in woerth - demand for german manufactured goods is up german industrial orders in march showed their first rise for six months , on the back of an increase in orders from abroad . preliminary government figures show that german industrial orders grew an unexpected 3.3 percent in march , driven by an increase in demand from abroad .
the rise - economists had expected a moderate fall for the world 's top exporter - is the first piece of hard data to back up the government 's prediction that the economy is set to grow slightly in 2010 .
the german economy is expected to experience negative growth of around six percent this year .
germany 's economics ministry said the seasonally adjusted rise did not even begin to make up for recent months , with orders for goods falling by 14.5 percent in the first quarter .
the ministry said , though , that the latest numbers showed the trend had changed .
the march increase compared with a 3.1 percent drop in february ; and was largely due to a 5.6 percent increase in orders from abroad .
domestic orders also grew by just over one percent .
the month-on-month climb in march was stronger than expected and indicated that europe 's biggest economy may already be on the rebound from the worst effects of the global recession .
however , the european commission slashed its economic projections on monday , saying europe 's economy would shrink by four per cent this year .
that 's double the figure that it predicted at the start of the year . ch / pfd , rtr / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german business confidence falls ; economists say turnaround near business confidence in europe 's largest economy has reached an all time low , but according to some economists , things could level out and even rebound in the coming months .
-lrb- 26.03.2009 -rrb- europe to lose 3.5 million jobs in 2009 , study says a new study by the eu commission says that jobless rolls in the european union will swell by a further 3.5 million this year as the global economic slowdown batters labor markets across europe .
-lrb- 18.02.2009 -rrb- airbus warns of " horrible " year ahead european aircraft manufacturing giant airbus expects a dismal year with orders plummeting as the global economic crisis hits the aviation industry .
-lrb- 15.01.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live made in germany we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live spectrum listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
georgian opposition clash with police as nato war games begin -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 21.09.2010 home news germany europe world from tierra del fuego to tijuana asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de georgia -pipe- 07.05.2009 georgian opposition clash with police as nato war games begin großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the nato military exercises that include computer training have flared tensions with georgia 's former soviet master , russia .
riot police in georgia clashed with anti-government officials during a late night rally , attempting to disrupt the kick off of nato 's controversial military exercises . it was the first major outbreak of violence in what 's now been a month of demonstrations against georgia 's president in the capital , tbilisi .
thousands of protestors converged on parliament to demand president mikhail saakashvili 's resignation , as well as the release of three jailed supporters .
georgia 's interior ministry spokesman shota utiashvili said police used truncheons to beat back protesters who were climbing over a fence surrounding the building .
nato exercises reignite georgia-russia tension the month-long nato training activities began on wednesday , and are part of a simulated crisis response operation and peacekeeping exercises .
they will involve at least 1,100 soldiers from 10 nato countries and six of the alliance 's " partner " countries .
the military exercises are being held at a georgian military base formerly used by the russian air force .
the operations have strained ties further between the ex-soviet georgia and its cold war-era rival .
russia fiercely objects to georgia hosting the operation , saying it threatens stability in the region .
earlier in the week , georgia accused russia of backing a brief military mutiny that allegedly included a plot to assassinate the president . cg / rm , reuters / afp / ap send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de nato denies georgia war-games agenda russian anger simmers as a month of partnership for peace -lrb- pfp -rrb- military exercises featuring nato states starts in georgia .
but nato claims that there is no agenda and that moscow was fully informed .
-lrb- 05.05.2009 -rrb- nato expels russian diplomats from brussels amid spying row nato has ordered the expulsion of two diplomats from russia 's nato mission in connection with a spy scandal - a move moscow calls a " provocation . " -lrb- 30.04.2009 -rrb- nato and russia resume formal ties after an eight-month freeze , nato and russia have once again taken up official relations .
but while a dialogue has resumed , disagreement between the two sides still exists .
-lrb- 29.04.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live hits in germany pop from the german top 100 listen live learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan new web site check out deutsche welle 's new asia page in english .
dw asia online news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's newest media partner latin america take a multimedia journey discover the region and its people © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
bremen book a place in the uefa cup final , clinching a win against rivals hamburg -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 01.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de soccer -pipe- 07.05.2009 bremen book a place in the uefa cup final , clinching a win against rivals hamburg großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bremen 's diego scores but will miss the uefa cup final .
werder bremen came from a goal down to win 3-2 away to sv hamburg thursday to book a uefa cup final date in istanbul against ukrainian side shakhtar donetsk . diego , claudio pizarro and frank baumann were the goal-scoring heroes for bremen to advance to their first ever european final on may 20 in istanbul .
bremen went into the clash trailing 1-0 from the first leg but conceded a goal to hosts hamburg in the 13th minute when joris mathijsen powered his way upfield from defence before finding ivica olic who chipped the ball over bremen 's goalkeepr tim wiese .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : hamburgs 's ivica olic , left , scores his side 's first goal past bremen 's goalkeeper tim wiese olic could have doubled hamburg 's lead on 27 minutes but his effort from close range was saved .
within two minutes bremen were level when diego and pizarro combined well before the brazilian slotted the ball past frank rost .
diego nearly netted a second on 37 minutes but his shot from 25 metres hit the crossbar .
however , the 24-year-old was booked two minutes before the break for an off-the-ball row with alex silva , who also saw yellow , meaning the brazilian will miss the final .
" it was a difficult situation i did n't do anything , not to go to the final is very bad for me , " said diego .
peruvian striker pizarro scored on 66 minutes , beating rost at the near post although the hamburg goalkeeper really should have done better .
baumann looked to have put the game beyond hamburg with bremen 's third seven minutes from time and although olic popped up to score his second of the game to make it 3-2 on the night to set up a tense finale , bremen held on to make it to their first uefa cup final .
" we played well , it was tough to come from two goals down , " said pizarro .
" diego played a great match its a pity he 's not in the final but thats football . "
bremen are the first german side to reach a uefa cup final since borussia dortmund reached the final in 2002 only to lose against feyenoord rotterdam .
ruhr valley side schalke 04 were the last german winners back in 1997 .
same procedure ?
thursday 's semi-final fixture is the third in a series of four matches to be played between the two northern german clubs within a 19-day period . the first game went bremen 's way when goalkeeper tim wiese made three saves in a penalty shootout to knock hamburg out of the german cup semi-final on april 22 . the second saw hamburg gain revenge eight days later with its 0-1 victory in bremen .
the fourth and final derby match is a bundesliga fixture scheduled for sunday , may 10 . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : thomas schaaf has coached werder bremen for a decade intense rivalry as the two biggest cities in northern germany , hamburg and bremen have a long history of competing with each other as hanseatic trading powers , regional centers of industry and culture , and sporting contenders . " what 's very special is that they more or less share the same backyard from which they can get their soccer fans , " deutsche welle 's sports head wolfgang van kann says .
" so it 's always a question of who is better , and where the fans will go . " from a historical perspective , it 's difficult to say which club has been more successful .
according to the so-called " eternal table , " which records the performances of all bundesliga clubs since the competition was founded in 1963 , werder bremen and hamburg are ranked second and third respectively .
at the time of writing , they were separated by just six points . " clearly hamburg has the longer tradition and the longer streak of success , " van kann says .
" bremen has only come up in the last one or two decades , but with huge success . " while hamburg has n't won a title since it lifted the german cup in 1987 , bremen won the german double in 2004 and has qualified for the champions league for the past five seasons . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : fans were disgusted when hooligans killed a 16-year-old in 1982 " the clubs have always been very different , " van kann explains .
" for example you can see that hamburg has had several coaches within the past few years , while bremen has only had one coach for the last 10 years . " fan violence one thing the two clubs do have in common is a dedicated fan base .
hamburg boasts almost 55,000 members , while bremen has more than 30,000 .
but violence involving so-called " ultras " and militant fan groups has driven a wedge between the two cities on more than one occasion . the worst incident took place in october 1982 , when hamburg hosted bremen for a second-round german cup match .
despite a large police presence around the main train station and the stadium , hooligans belonging to a group known as the " hamburg lions " attacked visitors with beer cans , stones and fireworks . a 16-year-old bremen fan named adrian maleika was killed after he was hit on the head by a stone .
while most of germany was shocked , a number of hard-line fans were quoted in the press as being indifferent or hungry for revenge . tensions between supporters of the rival clubs threatened to boil over until representatives of more than 200 fan groups met in the town of scheessel , half-way between bremen and hamburg , and signed a " peace deal " banning revenge attacks . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : werder bremen topped the bundesliga in 1993 and 2004 while provocative lyrics sung in stadiums during northern derbies occasionally refer to the incident , most fans have put the conflict behind them , and prefer to remember - or forget - these four landmark matches from the past 30 years : bremen 6-0 hamburg , may 1 , 2004 the most one-sided result between the two clubs was in bremen as the 2003-04 bundesliga season drew to an end .
some 42,000 spectators watched hamburg striker sergej barbarez score an own-goal and trigger an avalanche of bremen goals .
one match later , werder bremen won the championship with a spectacular 3-1 victory over bayern munich . bremen 4-2 hamburg , october 27 , 1993 just over 34,000 fans turned out to watch the fourth round german cup fixture in bremen 's weserstadion .
austrian midfielder andreas herzog gave bremen an early lead , but hamburg managed to score twice after the break before bernd hobsch leveled the scores in the 74th minute .
when hamburg 's andreas sassen was shown a red card , bremen 's frank neubarth and wynton rufer capitalized by both finding the net in the final four minutes .
the convincing victory saw werder bremen progress through the tournament to win the 1993 german cup . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : horst hrubesch was a key player for hamburg in 1982 .
bremen 5-0 hamburg , may 29 , 1993 bremen also secured the bundesliga crown with one game to spare in 1993 thanks to this overwhelming victory .
andreas herzog and wynton rufer both scored as the home crowd celebrated their club 's third title .
bremen ended the season one point ahead of bayern munich , leaving hamburg to finish 11th .
legendary bremen coach otto rehhagel described the victory as a " milestone " for the club . hamburg 5-0 bremen , may 15 , 1982 one of hamburg 's two highest-ever wins against their northern derby rivals came in the closing stages of the 1981/1982 campaign .
a total of 53,400 fans watched horst hrubesch - now germany 's under-21 coach - score a hat-trick as hamburg demolished bremen 's defense to win the bundesliga title at the expense of second-placed fc cologne . author : sam edmonds editor : darren mara send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de hamburg move closer to uefa final after bremen defeat sv hamburg took the advantage on thursday after defeating bremen 1-0 in the first leg of their uefa cup semi-final matches .
hamburg 's coach says their position is good for the second leg , but bremen is not giving up .
-lrb- 01.05.2009 -rrb- german , ukrainian clubs fight for uefa cup honors domestic pride will be at stake in europe when ukrainian and german clubs battle against each other in the semi-finals of the uefa cup in first-leg matches on thursday .
-lrb- 30.04.2009 -rrb- werder bremen beat hamburg in cup semi-final bremen beat hamburg on penalties to reach the cup final .
bremen 's goalie tim wiese was the man of the game as he saved three penalties .
his side will now face leverkusen in the final .
-lrb- 23.04.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 dw-tv europe live global 3000 we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report bundesliga predictions hands down dw pundits hope a palm and 50 cents are all it takes to get the scores right on match day 14 .
scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results at a glance .
dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia moenchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg cantona 's revolution former footballer , now actor eric cantona wants to start a revolution targetting the banks .
listen to the report © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
european central bank cuts rates to record low -pipe- nrs-import -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 01.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de economy -pipe- 07.05.2009 european central bank cuts rates to record low großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : jean-claude trichet , the ecb president .
the european central bank has cut its main interest rate to a record low one percent .
the cut was the fourth this year by the frankfurt-based bank , and it may not be the last . ecb president jean-claude trichet announced the cut on thursday , saying the bank was planning to shore up financial market confidence and boost liquidity by extending the period over which the ecb lends funds to banks at fixed rates from 6 months to 12 months and purchasing bonds .
the quarter point rate cut was the fourth this year by the frankfurt-based bank , which sets monetary policy for countries that share the euro currency .
trichet said that inflationary pressures had diminished in the economic downturn , but that the euro-zone economy appeared to be stabilising .
" the latest economic data suggest tentative signs of a stabilisation at very low levels after a first quarter which was significantly weaker than expected , " he told the news conference after the bank 's decision .
" the world economy including the eurozone is still undergoing a severe downturn with the prospect of both external and domestic demand remaining very weak over 2009 before gradually recovering in the course of 2010 , " trichet said .
he also said inflation expectations were consistent with keeping it in line with the bank 's target of price growth at or just below 2 percent .
eurozone inflation is at a record low of 0.6 percent and although some economic data are showing signs of stabilisation , the european commission this week forecast the eurozone 's economy would shrink by 4.0 percent this year .
the ecb has cut rates from 4.25 percent since last october .
trichet indicated that thursday 's rate cut was not necessarily the last . ch / pfd , rtr / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de eu agrees to boost aid to struggling member countries the european union has agreed to double the amount of a bailout fund to 50 billion euros -lrb- $ 67 billion -rrb- .
the fund was created to provide emergency loans to eastern eu countries hit hard by the financial crisis .
-lrb- 05.05.2009 -rrb- japanese pm lauds swift german reaction to financial crisis japanese prime minister taro aso was in berlin on tuesday as part of a three-day trip to europe .
the global economic downturn was on aso 's mind as he met with german chancellor angela merkel .
-lrb- 05.05.2009 -rrb- spring employment boost fails to materialize a much-hoped-for springtime jobs boost has failed to materialize , official german figures show .
-lrb- 30.04.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
european central bank cuts rates to record low -pipe- nrs-import -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 19.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de economy -pipe- 07.05.2009 european central bank cuts rates to record low großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : jean-claude trichet , the ecb president .
the european central bank has cut its main interest rate to a record low one percent .
the cut was the fourth this year by the frankfurt-based bank , and it may not be the last . ecb president jean-claude trichet announced the cut on thursday , saying the bank was planning to shore up financial market confidence and boost liquidity by extending the period over which the ecb lends funds to banks at fixed rates from 6 months to 12 months and purchasing bonds .
the quarter point rate cut was the fourth this year by the frankfurt-based bank , which sets monetary policy for countries that share the euro currency .
trichet said that inflationary pressures had diminished in the economic downturn , but that the euro-zone economy appeared to be stabilising .
" the latest economic data suggest tentative signs of a stabilisation at very low levels after a first quarter which was significantly weaker than expected , " he told the news conference after the bank 's decision .
" the world economy including the eurozone is still undergoing a severe downturn with the prospect of both external and domestic demand remaining very weak over 2009 before gradually recovering in the course of 2010 , " trichet said .
he also said inflation expectations were consistent with keeping it in line with the bank 's target of price growth at or just below 2 percent .
eurozone inflation is at a record low of 0.6 percent and although some economic data are showing signs of stabilisation , the european commission this week forecast the eurozone 's economy would shrink by 4.0 percent this year .
the ecb has cut rates from 4.25 percent since last october .
trichet indicated that thursday 's rate cut was not necessarily the last . ch / pfd , rtr / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de eu agrees to boost aid to struggling member countries the european union has agreed to double the amount of a bailout fund to 50 billion euros -lrb- $ 67 billion -rrb- .
the fund was created to provide emergency loans to eastern eu countries hit hard by the financial crisis .
-lrb- 05.05.2009 -rrb- japanese pm lauds swift german reaction to financial crisis japanese prime minister taro aso was in berlin on tuesday as part of a three-day trip to europe .
the global economic downturn was on aso 's mind as he met with german chancellor angela merkel .
-lrb- 05.05.2009 -rrb- spring employment boost fails to materialize a much-hoped-for springtime jobs boost has failed to materialize , official german figures show .
-lrb- 30.04.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
european central bank cuts rates to record low -pipe- nrs-import -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de economy -pipe- 07.05.2009 european central bank cuts rates to record low großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : jean-claude trichet , the ecb president .
the european central bank has cut its main interest rate to a record low one percent .
the cut was the fourth this year by the frankfurt-based bank , and it may not be the last . ecb president jean-claude trichet announced the cut on thursday , saying the bank was planning to shore up financial market confidence and boost liquidity by extending the period over which the ecb lends funds to banks at fixed rates from 6 months to 12 months and purchasing bonds .
the quarter point rate cut was the fourth this year by the frankfurt-based bank , which sets monetary policy for countries that share the euro currency .
trichet said that inflationary pressures had diminished in the economic downturn , but that the euro-zone economy appeared to be stabilising .
" the latest economic data suggest tentative signs of a stabilisation at very low levels after a first quarter which was significantly weaker than expected , " he told the news conference after the bank 's decision .
" the world economy including the eurozone is still undergoing a severe downturn with the prospect of both external and domestic demand remaining very weak over 2009 before gradually recovering in the course of 2010 , " trichet said .
he also said inflation expectations were consistent with keeping it in line with the bank 's target of price growth at or just below 2 percent .
eurozone inflation is at a record low of 0.6 percent and although some economic data are showing signs of stabilisation , the european commission this week forecast the eurozone 's economy would shrink by 4.0 percent this year .
the ecb has cut rates from 4.25 percent since last october .
trichet indicated that thursday 's rate cut was not necessarily the last . ch / pfd , rtr / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de eu agrees to boost aid to struggling member countries the european union has agreed to double the amount of a bailout fund to 50 billion euros -lrb- $ 67 billion -rrb- .
the fund was created to provide emergency loans to eastern eu countries hit hard by the financial crisis .
-lrb- 05.05.2009 -rrb- japanese pm lauds swift german reaction to financial crisis japanese prime minister taro aso was in berlin on tuesday as part of a three-day trip to europe .
the global economic downturn was on aso 's mind as he met with german chancellor angela merkel .
-lrb- 05.05.2009 -rrb- spring employment boost fails to materialize a much-hoped-for springtime jobs boost has failed to materialize , official german figures show .
-lrb- 30.04.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
european central bank cuts rates to record low -pipe- nrs-import -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 22.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de economy -pipe- 07.05.2009 european central bank cuts rates to record low großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : jean-claude trichet , the ecb president .
the european central bank has cut its main interest rate to a record low one percent .
the cut was the fourth this year by the frankfurt-based bank , and it may not be the last . ecb president jean-claude trichet announced the cut on thursday , saying the bank was planning to shore up financial market confidence and boost liquidity by extending the period over which the ecb lends funds to banks at fixed rates from 6 months to 12 months and purchasing bonds .
the quarter point rate cut was the fourth this year by the frankfurt-based bank , which sets monetary policy for countries that share the euro currency .
trichet said that inflationary pressures had diminished in the economic downturn , but that the euro-zone economy appeared to be stabilising .
" the latest economic data suggest tentative signs of a stabilisation at very low levels after a first quarter which was significantly weaker than expected , " he told the news conference after the bank 's decision .
" the world economy including the eurozone is still undergoing a severe downturn with the prospect of both external and domestic demand remaining very weak over 2009 before gradually recovering in the course of 2010 , " trichet said .
he also said inflation expectations were consistent with keeping it in line with the bank 's target of price growth at or just below 2 percent .
eurozone inflation is at a record low of 0.6 percent and although some economic data are showing signs of stabilisation , the european commission this week forecast the eurozone 's economy would shrink by 4.0 percent this year .
the ecb has cut rates from 4.25 percent since last october .
trichet indicated that thursday 's rate cut was not necessarily the last . ch / pfd , rtr / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de eu agrees to boost aid to struggling member countries the european union has agreed to double the amount of a bailout fund to 50 billion euros -lrb- $ 67 billion -rrb- .
the fund was created to provide emergency loans to eastern eu countries hit hard by the financial crisis .
-lrb- 05.05.2009 -rrb- japanese pm lauds swift german reaction to financial crisis japanese prime minister taro aso was in berlin on tuesday as part of a three-day trip to europe .
the global economic downturn was on aso 's mind as he met with german chancellor angela merkel .
-lrb- 05.05.2009 -rrb- spring employment boost fails to materialize a much-hoped-for springtime jobs boost has failed to materialize , official german figures show .
-lrb- 30.04.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
deutsche telekom posts large first-quarter loss -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 19.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de communications -pipe- 07.05.2009 deutsche telekom posts large first-quarter loss großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the loss brings dark clouds to deutsche telekom germany 's telecommunications operator , deutsche telekom , has blamed the economic downturn and intense competition for its first quarter loss of 1.12 billion euros . the bonn-based company announced the big loss for the january-march period , and compared it to the net profit of 924 million euros -lrb- $ 1.2 billion -rrb- it posted in the first quarter of 2008 .
it attributed the loss to a devaluation of its british t-mobile unit and " the strong economic slowdown and more intense competition in the united kingdom . "
however , in a written statement , the telecommunications giant announced it had an increase in total sales , up 6.2 percent on the same period last year .
that was explained by the integration of greek telecom operator ote into deutsche telekom 's books in february .
" the figures we are presenting today show a mixed picture , " deutsche telekom chairman rene obermann said .
" despite the difficult environment in some markets , we are in a relatively stable position , " he added .
meanwhile , the financial times deutschland has reported that telekom plans job cuts in its t-systems unit , saying that 1,500 workers will be laid off .
rene obermann has denied the report . cg / dfm / rm , afp / ap send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de t-mobile rules out compensation after network failure germany 's largest mobile phone operator has ruled out paying compensation after an embarrassing outage in its network left millions of customers without service .
-lrb- 23.04.2009 -rrb- deutsche bank extends ceo 's contract amid first-quarter profits deutsche bank chief josef ackermann has agreed to another three years at the helm , while the bank made good on disastrous 2008 figures by posting impressive first quarter profits .
-lrb- 28.04.2009 -rrb- germany 's munich re posts 2008 profit of 1.5 billion euros munich re , the world 's second biggest re-insurance group , on wednesday posted a net profit of 1.5 billion euros -lrb- $ 1.9 billion -rrb- for 2008 , with a slight gain of around 100 million euros in the last quarter .
-lrb- 04.02.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live spectrum listen live banking get an inside look at some of germany 's more unusual companies .
fifa women 's world cup - another summer celebration ?
la máquina - tunnel-boring machinery for mexico , part 4 : the breakthrough industrial farming - pigs at dumping prices siematic kitchens - exclusive and expensive stock exchange today in history 1915 : airship bombs london © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
deutsche telekom posts large first-quarter loss -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 02.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de communications -pipe- 07.05.2009 deutsche telekom posts large first-quarter loss großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the loss brings dark clouds to deutsche telekom germany 's telecommunications operator , deutsche telekom , has blamed the economic downturn and intense competition for its first quarter loss of 1.12 billion euros . the bonn-based company announced the big loss for the january-march period , and compared it to the net profit of 924 million euros -lrb- $ 1.2 billion -rrb- it posted in the first quarter of 2008 .
it attributed the loss to a devaluation of its british t-mobile unit and " the strong economic slowdown and more intense competition in the united kingdom . "
however , in a written statement , the telecommunications giant announced it had an increase in total sales , up 6.2 percent on the same period last year .
that was explained by the integration of greek telecom operator ote into deutsche telekom 's books in february .
" the figures we are presenting today show a mixed picture , " deutsche telekom chairman rene obermann said .
" despite the difficult environment in some markets , we are in a relatively stable position , " he added .
meanwhile , the financial times deutschland has reported that telekom plans job cuts in its t-systems unit , saying that 1,500 workers will be laid off .
rene obermann has denied the report . cg / dfm / rm , afp / ap send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de t-mobile rules out compensation after network failure germany 's largest mobile phone operator has ruled out paying compensation after an embarrassing outage in its network left millions of customers without service .
-lrb- 23.04.2009 -rrb- deutsche bank extends ceo 's contract amid first-quarter profits deutsche bank chief josef ackermann has agreed to another three years at the helm , while the bank made good on disastrous 2008 figures by posting impressive first quarter profits .
-lrb- 28.04.2009 -rrb- germany 's munich re posts 2008 profit of 1.5 billion euros munich re , the world 's second biggest re-insurance group , on wednesday posted a net profit of 1.5 billion euros -lrb- $ 1.9 billion -rrb- for 2008 , with a slight gain of around 100 million euros in the last quarter .
-lrb- 04.02.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live motor mobil we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live world in progress listen live stock exchange today in history 1936 : thomas mann expatriated © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
deutsche telekom posts large first-quarter loss -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 17.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business 125 years automobile science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de communications -pipe- 07.05.2009 deutsche telekom posts large first-quarter loss großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the loss brings dark clouds to deutsche telekom germany 's telecommunications operator , deutsche telekom , has blamed the economic downturn and intense competition for its first quarter loss of 1.12 billion euros . the bonn-based company announced the big loss for the january-march period , and compared it to the net profit of 924 million euros -lrb- $ 1.2 billion -rrb- it posted in the first quarter of 2008 .
it attributed the loss to a devaluation of its british t-mobile unit and " the strong economic slowdown and more intense competition in the united kingdom . "
however , in a written statement , the telecommunications giant announced it had an increase in total sales , up 6.2 percent on the same period last year .
that was explained by the integration of greek telecom operator ote into deutsche telekom 's books in february .
" the figures we are presenting today show a mixed picture , " deutsche telekom chairman rene obermann said .
" despite the difficult environment in some markets , we are in a relatively stable position , " he added .
meanwhile , the financial times deutschland has reported that telekom plans job cuts in its t-systems unit , saying that 1,500 workers will be laid off .
rene obermann has denied the report . cg / dfm / rm , afp / ap send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de t-mobile rules out compensation after network failure germany 's largest mobile phone operator has ruled out paying compensation after an embarrassing outage in its network left millions of customers without service .
-lrb- 23.04.2009 -rrb- deutsche bank extends ceo 's contract amid first-quarter profits deutsche bank chief josef ackermann has agreed to another three years at the helm , while the bank made good on disastrous 2008 figures by posting impressive first quarter profits .
-lrb- 28.04.2009 -rrb- germany 's munich re posts 2008 profit of 1.5 billion euros munich re , the world 's second biggest re-insurance group , on wednesday posted a net profit of 1.5 billion euros -lrb- $ 1.9 billion -rrb- for 2008 , with a slight gain of around 100 million euros in the last quarter .
-lrb- 04.02.2009 -rrb- 9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-tv europe live journal - news with interview we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live radio d listen live stock exchange today in history 1918 : the murder of the tsar family dw-tv get an inside look at some of germany 's more unusual companies .
flying the german flag - costly voyages for shipping companies captains in the classroom - rostock 's maritime school organbuilding - the art and craft of the perfect sound saving makes cents – new heating technology for industry © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
deutsche telekom posts large first-quarter loss -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 11.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business 125 years automobile science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de communications -pipe- 07.05.2009 deutsche telekom posts large first-quarter loss großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the loss brings dark clouds to deutsche telekom germany 's telecommunications operator , deutsche telekom , has blamed the economic downturn and intense competition for its first quarter loss of 1.12 billion euros . the bonn-based company announced the big loss for the january-march period , and compared it to the net profit of 924 million euros -lrb- $ 1.2 billion -rrb- it posted in the first quarter of 2008 .
it attributed the loss to a devaluation of its british t-mobile unit and " the strong economic slowdown and more intense competition in the united kingdom . "
however , in a written statement , the telecommunications giant announced it had an increase in total sales , up 6.2 percent on the same period last year .
that was explained by the integration of greek telecom operator ote into deutsche telekom 's books in february .
" the figures we are presenting today show a mixed picture , " deutsche telekom chairman rene obermann said .
" despite the difficult environment in some markets , we are in a relatively stable position , " he added .
meanwhile , the financial times deutschland has reported that telekom plans job cuts in its t-systems unit , saying that 1,500 workers will be laid off .
rene obermann has denied the report . cg / dfm / rm , afp / ap send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de t-mobile rules out compensation after network failure germany 's largest mobile phone operator has ruled out paying compensation after an embarrassing outage in its network left millions of customers without service .
-lrb- 23.04.2009 -rrb- deutsche bank extends ceo 's contract amid first-quarter profits deutsche bank chief josef ackermann has agreed to another three years at the helm , while the bank made good on disastrous 2008 figures by posting impressive first quarter profits .
-lrb- 28.04.2009 -rrb- germany 's munich re posts 2008 profit of 1.5 billion euros munich re , the world 's second biggest re-insurance group , on wednesday posted a net profit of 1.5 billion euros -lrb- $ 1.9 billion -rrb- for 2008 , with a slight gain of around 100 million euros in the last quarter .
-lrb- 04.02.2009 -rrb- 9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-tv europe live journal - news with in depth we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live stock exchange today in history 1994 : paragraph 175 revoked dw-tv get an inside look at some of germany 's more unusual companies .
flying the german flag - costly voyages for shipping companies captains in the classroom - rostock 's maritime school organbuilding - the art and craft of the perfect sound saving makes cents – new heating technology for industry © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
georgian opposition clash with police as nato war games begin -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.10.2010 home news germany europe world from tierra del fuego to tijuana asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de georgia -pipe- 07.05.2009 georgian opposition clash with police as nato war games begin großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the nato military exercises that include computer training have flared tensions with georgia 's former soviet master , russia .
riot police in georgia clashed with anti-government officials during a late night rally , attempting to disrupt the kick off of nato 's controversial military exercises . it was the first major outbreak of violence in what 's now been a month of demonstrations against georgia 's president in the capital , tbilisi .
thousands of protestors converged on parliament to demand president mikhail saakashvili 's resignation , as well as the release of three jailed supporters .
georgia 's interior ministry spokesman shota utiashvili said police used truncheons to beat back protesters who were climbing over a fence surrounding the building .
nato exercises reignite georgia-russia tension the month-long nato training activities began on wednesday , and are part of a simulated crisis response operation and peacekeeping exercises .
they will involve at least 1,100 soldiers from 10 nato countries and six of the alliance 's " partner " countries .
the military exercises are being held at a georgian military base formerly used by the russian air force .
the operations have strained ties further between the ex-soviet georgia and its cold war-era rival .
russia fiercely objects to georgia hosting the operation , saying it threatens stability in the region .
earlier in the week , georgia accused russia of backing a brief military mutiny that allegedly included a plot to assassinate the president . cg / rm , reuters / afp / ap send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de nato denies georgia war-games agenda russian anger simmers as a month of partnership for peace -lrb- pfp -rrb- military exercises featuring nato states starts in georgia .
but nato claims that there is no agenda and that moscow was fully informed .
-lrb- 05.05.2009 -rrb- nato expels russian diplomats from brussels amid spying row nato has ordered the expulsion of two diplomats from russia 's nato mission in connection with a spy scandal - a move moscow calls a " provocation . " -lrb- 30.04.2009 -rrb- nato and russia resume formal ties after an eight-month freeze , nato and russia have once again taken up official relations .
but while a dialogue has resumed , disagreement between the two sides still exists .
-lrb- 29.04.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live us elections us president obama 's democratic party faces an uphill battle in the upcoming midterm elections .
watch the video learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan new web site check out deutsche welle 's new asia page in english .
dw asia online news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's newest media partner latin america take a multimedia journey discover the region and its people © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
georgian opposition clash with police as nato war games begin -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.01.2011 home news germany europe world from tierra del fuego to tijuana asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de georgia -pipe- 07.05.2009 georgian opposition clash with police as nato war games begin großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the nato military exercises that include computer training have flared tensions with georgia 's former soviet master , russia .
riot police in georgia clashed with anti-government officials during a late night rally , attempting to disrupt the kick off of nato 's controversial military exercises . it was the first major outbreak of violence in what 's now been a month of demonstrations against georgia 's president in the capital , tbilisi .
thousands of protestors converged on parliament to demand president mikhail saakashvili 's resignation , as well as the release of three jailed supporters .
georgia 's interior ministry spokesman shota utiashvili said police used truncheons to beat back protesters who were climbing over a fence surrounding the building .
nato exercises reignite georgia-russia tension the month-long nato training activities began on wednesday , and are part of a simulated crisis response operation and peacekeeping exercises .
they will involve at least 1,100 soldiers from 10 nato countries and six of the alliance 's " partner " countries .
the military exercises are being held at a georgian military base formerly used by the russian air force .
the operations have strained ties further between the ex-soviet georgia and its cold war-era rival .
russia fiercely objects to georgia hosting the operation , saying it threatens stability in the region .
earlier in the week , georgia accused russia of backing a brief military mutiny that allegedly included a plot to assassinate the president . cg / rm , reuters / afp / ap send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de nato denies georgia war-games agenda russian anger simmers as a month of partnership for peace -lrb- pfp -rrb- military exercises featuring nato states starts in georgia .
but nato claims that there is no agenda and that moscow was fully informed .
-lrb- 05.05.2009 -rrb- nato expels russian diplomats from brussels amid spying row nato has ordered the expulsion of two diplomats from russia 's nato mission in connection with a spy scandal - a move moscow calls a " provocation . " -lrb- 30.04.2009 -rrb- nato and russia resume formal ties after an eight-month freeze , nato and russia have once again taken up official relations .
but while a dialogue has resumed , disagreement between the two sides still exists .
-lrb- 29.04.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
baby doc 's back the return of former haitian dictator ' baby doc ' duvalier could add to the country 's instability .
watch the video learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan latin america take a multimedia journey discover the region and its people news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's newest media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
european central bank cuts rates to record low -pipe- nrs-import -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 10.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de economy -pipe- 07.05.2009 european central bank cuts rates to record low großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : jean-claude trichet , the ecb president .
the european central bank has cut its main interest rate to a record low one percent .
the cut was the fourth this year by the frankfurt-based bank , and it may not be the last . ecb president jean-claude trichet announced the cut on thursday , saying the bank was planning to shore up financial market confidence and boost liquidity by extending the period over which the ecb lends funds to banks at fixed rates from 6 months to 12 months and purchasing bonds .
the quarter point rate cut was the fourth this year by the frankfurt-based bank , which sets monetary policy for countries that share the euro currency .
trichet said that inflationary pressures had diminished in the economic downturn , but that the euro-zone economy appeared to be stabilising .
" the latest economic data suggest tentative signs of a stabilisation at very low levels after a first quarter which was significantly weaker than expected , " he told the news conference after the bank 's decision .
" the world economy including the eurozone is still undergoing a severe downturn with the prospect of both external and domestic demand remaining very weak over 2009 before gradually recovering in the course of 2010 , " trichet said .
he also said inflation expectations were consistent with keeping it in line with the bank 's target of price growth at or just below 2 percent .
eurozone inflation is at a record low of 0.6 percent and although some economic data are showing signs of stabilisation , the european commission this week forecast the eurozone 's economy would shrink by 4.0 percent this year .
the ecb has cut rates from 4.25 percent since last october .
trichet indicated that thursday 's rate cut was not necessarily the last . ch / pfd , rtr / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de eu agrees to boost aid to struggling member countries the european union has agreed to double the amount of a bailout fund to 50 billion euros -lrb- $ 67 billion -rrb- .
the fund was created to provide emergency loans to eastern eu countries hit hard by the financial crisis .
-lrb- 05.05.2009 -rrb- japanese pm lauds swift german reaction to financial crisis japanese prime minister taro aso was in berlin on tuesday as part of a three-day trip to europe .
the global economic downturn was on aso 's mind as he met with german chancellor angela merkel .
-lrb- 05.05.2009 -rrb- spring employment boost fails to materialize a much-hoped-for springtime jobs boost has failed to materialize , official german figures show .
-lrb- 30.04.2009 -rrb- 9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
european central bank cuts rates to record low -pipe- nrs-import -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 16.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de economy -pipe- 07.05.2009 european central bank cuts rates to record low großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : jean-claude trichet , the ecb president .
the european central bank has cut its main interest rate to a record low one percent .
the cut was the fourth this year by the frankfurt-based bank , and it may not be the last . ecb president jean-claude trichet announced the cut on thursday , saying the bank was planning to shore up financial market confidence and boost liquidity by extending the period over which the ecb lends funds to banks at fixed rates from 6 months to 12 months and purchasing bonds .
the quarter point rate cut was the fourth this year by the frankfurt-based bank , which sets monetary policy for countries that share the euro currency .
trichet said that inflationary pressures had diminished in the economic downturn , but that the euro-zone economy appeared to be stabilising .
" the latest economic data suggest tentative signs of a stabilisation at very low levels after a first quarter which was significantly weaker than expected , " he told the news conference after the bank 's decision .
" the world economy including the eurozone is still undergoing a severe downturn with the prospect of both external and domestic demand remaining very weak over 2009 before gradually recovering in the course of 2010 , " trichet said .
he also said inflation expectations were consistent with keeping it in line with the bank 's target of price growth at or just below 2 percent .
eurozone inflation is at a record low of 0.6 percent and although some economic data are showing signs of stabilisation , the european commission this week forecast the eurozone 's economy would shrink by 4.0 percent this year .
the ecb has cut rates from 4.25 percent since last october .
trichet indicated that thursday 's rate cut was not necessarily the last . ch / pfd , rtr / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de eu agrees to boost aid to struggling member countries the european union has agreed to double the amount of a bailout fund to 50 billion euros -lrb- $ 67 billion -rrb- .
the fund was created to provide emergency loans to eastern eu countries hit hard by the financial crisis .
-lrb- 05.05.2009 -rrb- japanese pm lauds swift german reaction to financial crisis japanese prime minister taro aso was in berlin on tuesday as part of a three-day trip to europe .
the global economic downturn was on aso 's mind as he met with german chancellor angela merkel .
-lrb- 05.05.2009 -rrb- spring employment boost fails to materialize a much-hoped-for springtime jobs boost has failed to materialize , official german figures show .
-lrb- 30.04.2009 -rrb- 9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
steinmeier urges israeli counterpart to accept two-state plan -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 30.11.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de israel -pipe- 07.05.2009 steinmeier urges israeli counterpart to accept two-state plan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lieberman has been making his first official visit to berlin while in berlin , israel 's foreign minister has left a cloud over the mideast peace process , calling it a waste of money . israeli foreign minister avigdor lieberman has left german parliamentarians pessimistic about the future of the middle east peace process .
in berlin , the last stop of his four-day european tour , the right-wing minister refused to commit to a two-state solution for israel and the palestinian territories .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lieberman -lrb- right -rrb- with ruprecht polenz , chairman of the foreign affairs committee during talks with members of the german parliamentary foreign affairs committee lieberman said the peace process had been little more than a waste of money .
he also brought up iran , saying the country was a major threat .
later in the day , lieberman paid his respects at berlin 's holocaust memorial , laying a wreath at the 19,000-square-meter monument in the center of berlin .
lieberman later held talks with german interior minister wolfgang schaeuble , followed by dinner with his german counterpart frank-walter steinmeier .
germany 's top diplomat urged the controversial israeli foreign minister to adopt a two-state plan as the basis for peace in the middle east and the " sole path to peace and security . "
steinmeier emphasized that the german government expected the new israeli administration under prime minister benjamin netanyahu would abide with previous peace commitments .
the german minister said it was important to stregthen moderate forces in the region and actively involve them in the peace process .
with regard to the situation in the gaza strip , steinmeier said it was imperative that palestinians had access to aid supplies .
the israeli foreign minister , who heads a nationalist party in prime minister benjamin netanyahu 's coalition , caused a stir on his first day in office , when he announced that israel was no longer bound by the so-called annapolis peace process , which formed the basis of the israeli-palestinian peace talks in 2008 .
lieberman 's european visit - which has included meetings in rome , paris and european union talks in prague - was mostly conducted out of the media eye .
in berlin , no joint press conference or photo call was scheduled for his meeting with steinmeier .
this echoed lieberman 's reception in france , where foreign minister bernard kouchner chose not to hold a joint press conference as had been customary when lieberman 's predecessor tzipi livni came to paris . ch / pfd / nrt , rtr / dpa / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de merkel says " no alternative " to two-state solution in middle east german chancellor angela merkel has said there is no alternative to a two-state solution to the mideast crisis following talks in berlin on wednesday with jordan 's king abdullah ii .
-lrb- 06.05.2009 -rrb- netanyahu demands that palestinians recognize israel as jewish state israeli prime minister benjamin netanyahu has demanded palestinians recognize israel as a jewish state .
the call was made during his meeting with the visiting us special envoy to the middle east , george mitchell .
-lrb- 16.04.2009 -rrb- opinion : labour decision to join likud harms hopes for peace israeli labour party head ehud barack 's decision to take part in a government led by hardliner benjamin netanyahu is a disservice to the labour party and , more importantly , to hopes for peace , writes dw 's peter philipp .
-lrb- 25.03.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live hits in germany pop from the top 100 listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
travel passau is called the three river city , but it is just as famous for its baroque splendor .
passau - baroque facades and vibrant arts watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
steinmeier urges israeli counterpart to accept two-state plan -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 11.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de israel -pipe- 07.05.2009 steinmeier urges israeli counterpart to accept two-state plan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lieberman has been making his first official visit to berlin while in berlin , israel 's foreign minister has left a cloud over the mideast peace process , calling it a waste of money . israeli foreign minister avigdor lieberman has left german parliamentarians pessimistic about the future of the middle east peace process .
in berlin , the last stop of his four-day european tour , the right-wing minister refused to commit to a two-state solution for israel and the palestinian territories .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lieberman -lrb- right -rrb- with ruprecht polenz , chairman of the foreign affairs committee during talks with members of the german parliamentary foreign affairs committee lieberman said the peace process had been little more than a waste of money .
he also brought up iran , saying the country was a major threat .
later in the day , lieberman paid his respects at berlin 's holocaust memorial , laying a wreath at the 19,000-square-meter monument in the center of berlin .
lieberman later held talks with german interior minister wolfgang schaeuble , followed by dinner with his german counterpart frank-walter steinmeier .
germany 's top diplomat urged the controversial israeli foreign minister to adopt a two-state plan as the basis for peace in the middle east and the " sole path to peace and security . "
steinmeier emphasized that the german government expected the new israeli administration under prime minister benjamin netanyahu would abide with previous peace commitments .
the german minister said it was important to stregthen moderate forces in the region and actively involve them in the peace process .
with regard to the situation in the gaza strip , steinmeier said it was imperative that palestinians had access to aid supplies .
the israeli foreign minister , who heads a nationalist party in prime minister benjamin netanyahu 's coalition , caused a stir on his first day in office , when he announced that israel was no longer bound by the so-called annapolis peace process , which formed the basis of the israeli-palestinian peace talks in 2008 .
lieberman 's european visit - which has included meetings in rome , paris and european union talks in prague - was mostly conducted out of the media eye .
in berlin , no joint press conference or photo call was scheduled for his meeting with steinmeier .
this echoed lieberman 's reception in france , where foreign minister bernard kouchner chose not to hold a joint press conference as had been customary when lieberman 's predecessor tzipi livni came to paris . ch / pfd / nrt , rtr / dpa / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de merkel says " no alternative " to two-state solution in middle east german chancellor angela merkel has said there is no alternative to a two-state solution to the mideast crisis following talks in berlin on wednesday with jordan 's king abdullah ii .
-lrb- 06.05.2009 -rrb- netanyahu demands that palestinians recognize israel as jewish state israeli prime minister benjamin netanyahu has demanded palestinians recognize israel as a jewish state .
the call was made during his meeting with the visiting us special envoy to the middle east , george mitchell .
-lrb- 16.04.2009 -rrb- opinion : labour decision to join likud harms hopes for peace israeli labour party head ehud barack 's decision to take part in a government led by hardliner benjamin netanyahu is a disservice to the labour party and , more importantly , to hopes for peace , writes dw 's peter philipp .
-lrb- 25.03.2009 -rrb- 9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - news with business we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live concert hour early music days in regensburg -lrb- 1 -rrb- listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
digital street art artists in berlin reinvent graffiti by projecting light onto buildings using computer systems .
watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
suspected war criminal loses us court appeal to stop deportation -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 10.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de world war ii -pipe- 07.05.2009 suspected war criminal loses us court appeal to stop deportation großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : john demjanjuk appears to be losing legal battle against deportation to germany a us supreme court judge has said he will not block the alleged nazi death camp guard john demjanjuk 's deportation to germany to face a war crimes trial . the 89-year-old demjanjuk claims he is too ill to fly to germany .
he is accused of being a guard at the sobibor extermination camp during world war ii and of being an accessory to the murder of some 29,000 jews .
demjanjuk , who is ukrainian born , denies the charges , saying he was captured by the nazis and then kept as a prisoner of war .
german authorities allege that demjanjuk , then 23 , worked from march-september 1943 as a guard in nazi-occupied poland at the sobibor concentration camp .
prosecutors in munich issued an arrest warrant for him in march .
the us supreme court move was seen as one of the last ways to prevent his being taken to germany .
however , under court rules , his lawyers may still submit applications for a stay to the court 's other eight justices .
the lower court had dismissed arguments by demjanjuk 's lawyer that transporting him to germany would pose an undue risk to his health .
it accepted us government assurances that he would receive sufficient medical care during the trip .
the us justice department said it would continue to work with the german government on demjanjuk 's removal , but a spokeswoman could not provide details about the timing of a possible deportation .
a german tribunal earlier on thursday ruled that the german government is under no duty to oppose demjanjuk 's expulsion from us soil to germany .
following world war ii , demjanjuk lived in germany as a refugee until 1952 when he changed his first name from ivan to john and moved to the united states .
demjanjuk was acquitted in 1993 by the israeli supreme court of charges that he worked at a different death camp , treblinka , saving him from the death sentence of a lower court in israel .
but when he returned to the us , he was stripped of his us citizenship . nrt , mh dpa / reuters / ap send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ? 9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
wto ruling the world trade organization rules that china 's export restrictions on raw materials are illegal .
watch the video cairo clashes cairo 's tahrir square is back in the headlines after violent clashes between protesters and police .
watch the video in depth focus on libya dw-world looks at the turmoil in libya : what it means for tripoli and the rest of the world .
international conference media representatives around the world gather in bonn to discuss human rights .
podcast series a german musician brings change with song and crowd funding .
download the report subscribe to the series on itunes past episodes learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
steinmeier urges israeli counterpart to accept two-state plan -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 09.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de israel -pipe- 07.05.2009 steinmeier urges israeli counterpart to accept two-state plan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lieberman has been making his first official visit to berlin while in berlin , israel 's foreign minister has left a cloud over the mideast peace process , calling it a waste of money . israeli foreign minister avigdor lieberman has left german parliamentarians pessimistic about the future of the middle east peace process .
in berlin , the last stop of his four-day european tour , the right-wing minister refused to commit to a two-state solution for israel and the palestinian territories .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lieberman -lrb- right -rrb- with ruprecht polenz , chairman of the foreign affairs committee during talks with members of the german parliamentary foreign affairs committee lieberman said the peace process had been little more than a waste of money .
he also brought up iran , saying the country was a major threat .
later in the day , lieberman paid his respects at berlin 's holocaust memorial , laying a wreath at the 19,000-square-meter monument in the center of berlin .
lieberman later held talks with german interior minister wolfgang schaeuble , followed by dinner with his german counterpart frank-walter steinmeier .
germany 's top diplomat urged the controversial israeli foreign minister to adopt a two-state plan as the basis for peace in the middle east and the " sole path to peace and security . "
steinmeier emphasized that the german government expected the new israeli administration under prime minister benjamin netanyahu would abide with previous peace commitments .
the german minister said it was important to stregthen moderate forces in the region and actively involve them in the peace process .
with regard to the situation in the gaza strip , steinmeier said it was imperative that palestinians had access to aid supplies .
the israeli foreign minister , who heads a nationalist party in prime minister benjamin netanyahu 's coalition , caused a stir on his first day in office , when he announced that israel was no longer bound by the so-called annapolis peace process , which formed the basis of the israeli-palestinian peace talks in 2008 .
lieberman 's european visit - which has included meetings in rome , paris and european union talks in prague - was mostly conducted out of the media eye .
in berlin , no joint press conference or photo call was scheduled for his meeting with steinmeier .
this echoed lieberman 's reception in france , where foreign minister bernard kouchner chose not to hold a joint press conference as had been customary when lieberman 's predecessor tzipi livni came to paris . ch / pfd / nrt , rtr / dpa / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de merkel says " no alternative " to two-state solution in middle east german chancellor angela merkel has said there is no alternative to a two-state solution to the mideast crisis following talks in berlin on wednesday with jordan 's king abdullah ii .
-lrb- 06.05.2009 -rrb- netanyahu demands that palestinians recognize israel as jewish state israeli prime minister benjamin netanyahu has demanded palestinians recognize israel as a jewish state .
the call was made during his meeting with the visiting us special envoy to the middle east , george mitchell .
-lrb- 16.04.2009 -rrb- opinion : labour decision to join likud harms hopes for peace israeli labour party head ehud barack 's decision to take part in a government led by hardliner benjamin netanyahu is a disservice to the labour party and , more importantly , to hopes for peace , writes dw 's peter philipp .
-lrb- 25.03.2009 -rrb- 9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx - lifestyle europe we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live arts on the air listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
business the historic german brand faber-castell celebrates 250 years of making pencils and pens .
watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
suspected war criminal loses us court appeal to stop deportation -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 08.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de world war ii -pipe- 07.05.2009 suspected war criminal loses us court appeal to stop deportation großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : john demjanjuk appears to be losing legal battle against deportation to germany a us supreme court judge has said he will not block the alleged nazi death camp guard john demjanjuk 's deportation to germany to face a war crimes trial . the 89-year-old demjanjuk claims he is too ill to fly to germany .
he is accused of being a guard at the sobibor extermination camp during world war ii and of being an accessory to the murder of some 29,000 jews .
demjanjuk , who is ukrainian born , denies the charges , saying he was captured by the nazis and then kept as a prisoner of war .
german authorities allege that demjanjuk , then 23 , worked from march-september 1943 as a guard in nazi-occupied poland at the sobibor concentration camp .
prosecutors in munich issued an arrest warrant for him in march .
the us supreme court move was seen as one of the last ways to prevent his being taken to germany .
however , under court rules , his lawyers may still submit applications for a stay to the court 's other eight justices .
the lower court had dismissed arguments by demjanjuk 's lawyer that transporting him to germany would pose an undue risk to his health .
it accepted us government assurances that he would receive sufficient medical care during the trip .
the us justice department said it would continue to work with the german government on demjanjuk 's removal , but a spokeswoman could not provide details about the timing of a possible deportation .
a german tribunal earlier on thursday ruled that the german government is under no duty to oppose demjanjuk 's expulsion from us soil to germany .
following world war ii , demjanjuk lived in germany as a refugee until 1952 when he changed his first name from ivan to john and moved to the united states .
demjanjuk was acquitted in 1993 by the israeli supreme court of charges that he worked at a different death camp , treblinka , saving him from the death sentence of a lower court in israel .
but when he returned to the us , he was stripped of his us citizenship . nrt , mh dpa / reuters / ap send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ? 9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
security concerns there is a growing connection between security and natural resources .
listen to the interview podcast series life without the arts would be a lot less colorful , but guides like lukas help experience the arts .
download the podcast international conference media representatives around the world gather in bonn to discuss human rights .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
georgian opposition clash with police as nato war games begin -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 30.11.2010 home news germany europe world from tierra del fuego to tijuana asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de georgia -pipe- 07.05.2009 georgian opposition clash with police as nato war games begin großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the nato military exercises that include computer training have flared tensions with georgia 's former soviet master , russia .
riot police in georgia clashed with anti-government officials during a late night rally , attempting to disrupt the kick off of nato 's controversial military exercises . it was the first major outbreak of violence in what 's now been a month of demonstrations against georgia 's president in the capital , tbilisi .
thousands of protestors converged on parliament to demand president mikhail saakashvili 's resignation , as well as the release of three jailed supporters .
georgia 's interior ministry spokesman shota utiashvili said police used truncheons to beat back protesters who were climbing over a fence surrounding the building .
nato exercises reignite georgia-russia tension the month-long nato training activities began on wednesday , and are part of a simulated crisis response operation and peacekeeping exercises .
they will involve at least 1,100 soldiers from 10 nato countries and six of the alliance 's " partner " countries .
the military exercises are being held at a georgian military base formerly used by the russian air force .
the operations have strained ties further between the ex-soviet georgia and its cold war-era rival .
russia fiercely objects to georgia hosting the operation , saying it threatens stability in the region .
earlier in the week , georgia accused russia of backing a brief military mutiny that allegedly included a plot to assassinate the president . cg / rm , reuters / afp / ap send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de nato denies georgia war-games agenda russian anger simmers as a month of partnership for peace -lrb- pfp -rrb- military exercises featuring nato states starts in georgia .
but nato claims that there is no agenda and that moscow was fully informed .
-lrb- 05.05.2009 -rrb- nato expels russian diplomats from brussels amid spying row nato has ordered the expulsion of two diplomats from russia 's nato mission in connection with a spy scandal - a move moscow calls a " provocation . " -lrb- 30.04.2009 -rrb- nato and russia resume formal ties after an eight-month freeze , nato and russia have once again taken up official relations .
but while a dialogue has resumed , disagreement between the two sides still exists .
-lrb- 29.04.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live afghanistan german soldiers use humanitarian methods to gain the population 's support in char dara district .
watch the video learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan new web site check out deutsche welle 's new asia page in english .
dw asia online latin america take a multimedia journey discover the region and its people news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's newest media partner © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
suspected war criminal loses us court appeal to stop deportation -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 26.10.2010 home news germany europe world from tierra del fuego to tijuana asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de world war ii -pipe- 07.05.2009 suspected war criminal loses us court appeal to stop deportation großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : john demjanjuk appears to be losing legal battle against deportation to germany a us supreme court judge has said he will not block the alleged nazi death camp guard john demjanjuk 's deportation to germany to face a war crimes trial . the 89-year-old demjanjuk claims he is too ill to fly to germany .
he is accused of being a guard at the sobibor extermination camp during world war ii and of being an accessory to the murder of some 29,000 jews .
demjanjuk , who is ukrainian born , denies the charges , saying he was captured by the nazis and then kept as a prisoner of war .
german authorities allege that demjanjuk , then 23 , worked from march-september 1943 as a guard in nazi-occupied poland at the sobibor concentration camp .
prosecutors in munich issued an arrest warrant for him in march .
the us supreme court move was seen as one of the last ways to prevent his being taken to germany .
however , under court rules , his lawyers may still submit applications for a stay to the court 's other eight justices .
the lower court had dismissed arguments by demjanjuk 's lawyer that transporting him to germany would pose an undue risk to his health .
it accepted us government assurances that he would receive sufficient medical care during the trip .
the us justice department said it would continue to work with the german government on demjanjuk 's removal , but a spokeswoman could not provide details about the timing of a possible deportation .
a german tribunal earlier on thursday ruled that the german government is under no duty to oppose demjanjuk 's expulsion from us soil to germany .
following world war ii , demjanjuk lived in germany as a refugee until 1952 when he changed his first name from ivan to john and moved to the united states .
demjanjuk was acquitted in 1993 by the israeli supreme court of charges that he worked at a different death camp , treblinka , saving him from the death sentence of a lower court in israel .
but when he returned to the us , he was stripped of his us citizenship . nrt , mh dpa / reuters / ap send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live in focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inspired minds remembering the late dame joan sutherland listen live us elections us president obama 's democratic party faces an uphill battle in the upcoming midterm elections .
watch the video learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan new web site check out deutsche welle 's new asia page in english .
dw asia online news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's newest media partner latin america take a multimedia journey discover the region and its people © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
suspected war criminal loses us court appeal to stop deportation -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 17.01.2011 home news germany europe world from tierra del fuego to tijuana asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de world war ii -pipe- 07.05.2009 suspected war criminal loses us court appeal to stop deportation großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : john demjanjuk appears to be losing legal battle against deportation to germany a us supreme court judge has said he will not block the alleged nazi death camp guard john demjanjuk 's deportation to germany to face a war crimes trial . the 89-year-old demjanjuk claims he is too ill to fly to germany .
he is accused of being a guard at the sobibor extermination camp during world war ii and of being an accessory to the murder of some 29,000 jews .
demjanjuk , who is ukrainian born , denies the charges , saying he was captured by the nazis and then kept as a prisoner of war .
german authorities allege that demjanjuk , then 23 , worked from march-september 1943 as a guard in nazi-occupied poland at the sobibor concentration camp .
prosecutors in munich issued an arrest warrant for him in march .
the us supreme court move was seen as one of the last ways to prevent his being taken to germany .
however , under court rules , his lawyers may still submit applications for a stay to the court 's other eight justices .
the lower court had dismissed arguments by demjanjuk 's lawyer that transporting him to germany would pose an undue risk to his health .
it accepted us government assurances that he would receive sufficient medical care during the trip .
the us justice department said it would continue to work with the german government on demjanjuk 's removal , but a spokeswoman could not provide details about the timing of a possible deportation .
a german tribunal earlier on thursday ruled that the german government is under no duty to oppose demjanjuk 's expulsion from us soil to germany .
following world war ii , demjanjuk lived in germany as a refugee until 1952 when he changed his first name from ivan to john and moved to the united states .
demjanjuk was acquitted in 1993 by the israeli supreme court of charges that he worked at a different death camp , treblinka , saving him from the death sentence of a lower court in israel .
but when he returned to the us , he was stripped of his us citizenship . nrt , mh dpa / reuters / ap send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
battered city the extent of the damage in brisbane is slowly becoming visible .
watch the video learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan latin america take a multimedia journey discover the region and its people news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's newest media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
georgian opposition clash with police as nato war games begin -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 11.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de georgia -pipe- 07.05.2009 georgian opposition clash with police as nato war games begin großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the nato military exercises that include computer training have flared tensions with georgia 's former soviet master , russia .
riot police in georgia clashed with anti-government officials during a late night rally , attempting to disrupt the kick off of nato 's controversial military exercises . it was the first major outbreak of violence in what 's now been a month of demonstrations against georgia 's president in the capital , tbilisi .
thousands of protestors converged on parliament to demand president mikhail saakashvili 's resignation , as well as the release of three jailed supporters .
georgia 's interior ministry spokesman shota utiashvili said police used truncheons to beat back protesters who were climbing over a fence surrounding the building .
nato exercises reignite georgia-russia tension the month-long nato training activities began on wednesday , and are part of a simulated crisis response operation and peacekeeping exercises .
they will involve at least 1,100 soldiers from 10 nato countries and six of the alliance 's " partner " countries .
the military exercises are being held at a georgian military base formerly used by the russian air force .
the operations have strained ties further between the ex-soviet georgia and its cold war-era rival .
russia fiercely objects to georgia hosting the operation , saying it threatens stability in the region .
earlier in the week , georgia accused russia of backing a brief military mutiny that allegedly included a plot to assassinate the president . cg / rm , reuters / afp / ap send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de nato denies georgia war-games agenda russian anger simmers as a month of partnership for peace -lrb- pfp -rrb- military exercises featuring nato states starts in georgia .
but nato claims that there is no agenda and that moscow was fully informed .
-lrb- 05.05.2009 -rrb- nato expels russian diplomats from brussels amid spying row nato has ordered the expulsion of two diplomats from russia 's nato mission in connection with a spy scandal - a move moscow calls a " provocation . " -lrb- 30.04.2009 -rrb- nato and russia resume formal ties after an eight-month freeze , nato and russia have once again taken up official relations .
but while a dialogue has resumed , disagreement between the two sides still exists .
-lrb- 29.04.2009 -rrb- 9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
wto ruling the world trade organization rules that china 's export restrictions on raw materials are illegal .
watch the video cairo clashes cairo 's tahrir square is back in the headlines after violent clashes between protesters and police .
watch the video in depth focus on libya dw-world looks at the turmoil in libya : what it means for tripoli and the rest of the world .
international conference media representatives around the world gather in bonn to discuss human rights .
podcast series a german musician brings change with song and crowd funding .
download the report subscribe to the series on itunes past episodes learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
doubts remain over medvedev 's power and policy after first year in office -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.01.2011 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de russia -pipe- 07.05.2009 doubts remain over medvedev 's power and policy after first year in office großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : medvedev has had a busy first 12 months in power russian president dmitry medvedev marks the one-year anniversary of his coming to power on may 7 .
twelve months on , questions and doubts still remain over his legitimacy and his policies . global opinion was divided when dmitry medvedev became russian president on may 7 last year .
some saw the new leader as a puppet of vladimir putin , his predecessor and the man who medvedev had served loyally throughout his two terms in office .
others saw the incoming president as a man who could drive russia down a more liberal and democratic road , and reverse decades of state oppression .
one year on – a year during which medvedev has waged his first war and has been thrust into the forefront of the worst global economic crisis for over 80 years – questions and doubts still remain over whether medvedev is really the man leading russia and if he is , whether he is the right man to reform his nation .
so to what extent has medvedev been successful in attempting to answer those questions leveled against him ?
" from medvedev 's point of view , it 's probably been quite a successful year , " sam greene , the deputy director for operations at the carnegie endowment for international peace in moscow , told deutsche welle .
" this dual system of government which was put together – with medvedev as president and putin as prime minister – has not been without its problems but it 's worked relatively well .
it 's kept the ruling elite relatively cohesive and both medvedev and putin have remained popular politically and are seen as relatively legitimate both at home and internationally .
so it has been a success story for the experiment – which is what this presidency with putin as prime minister is ; a huge political experiment .
" but from a policy perspective , in terms of the reforms that medvedev talked about prior to becoming president ; strengthening the rule of law , diversifying the economy – there really have n't been any policy successes , " he added .
" his rhetoric has been very good .
he speaks very ably on the rule of law , on democracy , on economic liberalism but there was a lot of good rhetoric from putin on these issues for eight years and we did n't see any progress in that direction from him either . "
criticism stems from lack of reform progress much of the analysis of medvedev 's first year in power focuses on these promised reforms and the progress – or lack thereof – that russia has made in the spheres of democracy , human rights and press freedom .
according to professor margot light , a russia expert at the center for the study of global governance at the london school of economics , medvedev has fallen short of the optimists ' expectations .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : medvedev was initially against khodorkovsky 's second trial " there have been many words but very few deeds , " she said .
" medvedev came to power with everyone saying that he was far more liberal than putin .
in fact there has been very little sign of this .
it 's only been in the last couple of weeks that he 's started to talk the liberal talk , by giving an interview to an opposition newspaper , for example .
but apart from that there have been very little progress .
there has been the second trial of -lrb- jailed russian oil oligarch mikhail -rrb- khodorkovsky , even though medvedev himself seemed to be against it ; the electronic media is no freer than it was before he came to power and the non-governmental organizations are still having a tough time so there a very few signs that he has made much progress on the democratization front . "
meanwhile , amnesty international declared on the president 's first anniversary that little had been done to improve human rights in russia since he came to power .
in a statement released on thursday , amnesty said that in some areas the situation has deteriorated despite initial improvements , specifically in relation to attacks against lawyers , journalists and opposition activists which it said were on the rise .
sam greene agrees .
" the situation with the press has n't got any better , in fact in some cases it has actually gotten worse , " he said .
" we 've seen more violence against the press .
this is not state-sponsored violence but it 's part of the current climate and it is part of the responsibility of the state to improve the atmosphere and to make clear that violence against the media will not be tolerated .
" in terms of democracy , there was some talk about reforms to the electoral laws but they 've been slow in coming , " he added .
" we saw municipal elections around the country in which the ruling party continued to dominate , continued to rely on administrative resources and its ability to manipulate the system .
we saw this very clearly in the recent mayoral elections in sochi just like month . "
leadership partners still hugely popular in russia despite these criticisms , neither medvedev nor putin has suffered a serious reversal in popularity within the populace .
in fact , both retain huge support within russia .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : medvedev is gaining the kind of star status putin enjoys " medvedev enjoys very high ratings but the problem has always been that russians appear to prefer order to justice , " light said .
" russians are in favor of tough measures if they believe that those tough measures actually make the country more orderly .
so the president and putin still enjoy enormous support from the population . "
sam greene admits that medvedev and putin may have seen a minor dip in popularity but this is mainly due to the current economic crisis , which has seen unemployment in russia increase and income decrease , and not because of any democratic or liberal failures .
but greene believes that the population does n't hold the leadership partners responsible for its economic woes .
“ the people do n't blame medvedev and putin for these problems nor do they really expect the government or medvedev to be able to do much about them , " he said .
" the people are quite pragmatic , if not cynical , about the russian government 's ability to deal with this crisis . "
while medvedev 's polices have been increasingly scrutinized since he came to power , the partnership agreement struck between the president and his prime minister has also come under close inspection during this first year .
questions remain over who really is the boss bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the partnership has to and will endure , say experts the state of the two men 's relationship has been the subject of intense speculation lately as medvedev has grown into his role and repeated reports of an imminent split between the two have begun to circulate .
but both sam greene and margot light believe the partnership will endure .
" i think there was a very clear arrangement between the two of them ahead of their presidential election under which it was agreed that they were playing on the same team and playing the same role which was to maintain the outward legitimacy and stability of the political system and to mediate conflict between the various groups in the elite , " greene said .
" i would n't expect them to work at cross purposes unless there was a real split between the powerful elite in the country .
there seems to be a broad consensus that this current system needs to continue so i think the relationship between medvedev and putin will remain stable .
the only thing that 's changed is that medvedev has become a bit more comfortable in the position , has begun to understand what he can and can not do and become more confident with his rhetoric and his public persona . "
" there have been lots of attempts to find cracks between them , " light added .
" i think it 's fanciful .
i see no cracks between them .
if medvedev was there just to hold the place for putin until he could run again , the danger was always that medvedev would like the taste of power and decide he wanted to keep it for himself .
i see no sign that this has happened – yet , at any rate .
" however , internationally , medvedev is still seen very much as an instrument of putin 's policy , " light concluded .
" although he fulfills all the roles the constitution affords to the president , i still think there is a very strong feeling internationally that putin is making the decisions and medvedev is simply doing his bidding . "
author : nick amies editor chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de pro-kremlin candidate wins sochi mayoral poll amid claims of fraud amid claims of fraud , anatoly pakhomov , the pro-kremlin candidate in mayoral polls for the russian city of sochi , won a landslide victory in an election seen as a test of the political climate under president medvedev .
-lrb- 27.04.2009 -rrb- critics call putin treason bill means to quash opposition human rights organizations have criticized a new bill that would abolish jury trials for people suspected of treason , hostage-taking , organizing mass disturbances and several other serious crimes .
-lrb- 18.12.2008 -rrb- opinion : russia 's power duo offers tenuous political stability it 's an action-packed week in russian politics with dmitry medvedev and vladimir putin taking up their respective offices .
yet everything is not as rosy as it might appear , says deutsche welle 's ingo mannteufel .
-lrb- 05.05.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live im focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
italians hard hit by plastic bag ban east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
doubts remain over medvedev 's power and policy after first year in office -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 15.12.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de russia -pipe- 07.05.2009 doubts remain over medvedev 's power and policy after first year in office großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : medvedev has had a busy first 12 months in power russian president dmitry medvedev marks the one-year anniversary of his coming to power on may 7 .
twelve months on , questions and doubts still remain over his legitimacy and his policies . global opinion was divided when dmitry medvedev became russian president on may 7 last year .
some saw the new leader as a puppet of vladimir putin , his predecessor and the man who medvedev had served loyally throughout his two terms in office .
others saw the incoming president as a man who could drive russia down a more liberal and democratic road , and reverse decades of state oppression .
one year on – a year during which medvedev has waged his first war and has been thrust into the forefront of the worst global economic crisis for over 80 years – questions and doubts still remain over whether medvedev is really the man leading russia and if he is , whether he is the right man to reform his nation .
so to what extent has medvedev been successful in attempting to answer those questions leveled against him ?
" from medvedev 's point of view , it 's probably been quite a successful year , " sam greene , the deputy director for operations at the carnegie endowment for international peace in moscow , told deutsche welle .
" this dual system of government which was put together – with medvedev as president and putin as prime minister – has not been without its problems but it 's worked relatively well .
it 's kept the ruling elite relatively cohesive and both medvedev and putin have remained popular politically and are seen as relatively legitimate both at home and internationally .
so it has been a success story for the experiment – which is what this presidency with putin as prime minister is ; a huge political experiment .
" but from a policy perspective , in terms of the reforms that medvedev talked about prior to becoming president ; strengthening the rule of law , diversifying the economy – there really have n't been any policy successes , " he added .
" his rhetoric has been very good .
he speaks very ably on the rule of law , on democracy , on economic liberalism but there was a lot of good rhetoric from putin on these issues for eight years and we did n't see any progress in that direction from him either . "
criticism stems from lack of reform progress much of the analysis of medvedev 's first year in power focuses on these promised reforms and the progress – or lack thereof – that russia has made in the spheres of democracy , human rights and press freedom .
according to professor margot light , a russia expert at the center for the study of global governance at the london school of economics , medvedev has fallen short of the optimists ' expectations .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : medvedev was initially against khodorkovsky 's second trial " there have been many words but very few deeds , " she said .
" medvedev came to power with everyone saying that he was far more liberal than putin .
in fact there has been very little sign of this .
it 's only been in the last couple of weeks that he 's started to talk the liberal talk , by giving an interview to an opposition newspaper , for example .
but apart from that there have been very little progress .
there has been the second trial of -lrb- jailed russian oil oligarch mikhail -rrb- khodorkovsky , even though medvedev himself seemed to be against it ; the electronic media is no freer than it was before he came to power and the non-governmental organizations are still having a tough time so there a very few signs that he has made much progress on the democratization front . "
meanwhile , amnesty international declared on the president 's first anniversary that little had been done to improve human rights in russia since he came to power .
in a statement released on thursday , amnesty said that in some areas the situation has deteriorated despite initial improvements , specifically in relation to attacks against lawyers , journalists and opposition activists which it said were on the rise .
sam greene agrees .
" the situation with the press has n't got any better , in fact in some cases it has actually gotten worse , " he said .
" we 've seen more violence against the press .
this is not state-sponsored violence but it 's part of the current climate and it is part of the responsibility of the state to improve the atmosphere and to make clear that violence against the media will not be tolerated .
" in terms of democracy , there was some talk about reforms to the electoral laws but they 've been slow in coming , " he added .
" we saw municipal elections around the country in which the ruling party continued to dominate , continued to rely on administrative resources and its ability to manipulate the system .
we saw this very clearly in the recent mayoral elections in sochi just like month . "
leadership partners still hugely popular in russia despite these criticisms , neither medvedev nor putin has suffered a serious reversal in popularity within the populace .
in fact , both retain huge support within russia .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : medvedev is gaining the kind of star status putin enjoys " medvedev enjoys very high ratings but the problem has always been that russians appear to prefer order to justice , " light said .
" russians are in favor of tough measures if they believe that those tough measures actually make the country more orderly .
so the president and putin still enjoy enormous support from the population . "
sam greene admits that medvedev and putin may have seen a minor dip in popularity but this is mainly due to the current economic crisis , which has seen unemployment in russia increase and income decrease , and not because of any democratic or liberal failures .
but greene believes that the population does n't hold the leadership partners responsible for its economic woes .
“ the people do n't blame medvedev and putin for these problems nor do they really expect the government or medvedev to be able to do much about them , " he said .
" the people are quite pragmatic , if not cynical , about the russian government 's ability to deal with this crisis . "
while medvedev 's polices have been increasingly scrutinized since he came to power , the partnership agreement struck between the president and his prime minister has also come under close inspection during this first year .
questions remain over who really is the boss bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the partnership has to and will endure , say experts the state of the two men 's relationship has been the subject of intense speculation lately as medvedev has grown into his role and repeated reports of an imminent split between the two have begun to circulate .
but both sam greene and margot light believe the partnership will endure .
" i think there was a very clear arrangement between the two of them ahead of their presidential election under which it was agreed that they were playing on the same team and playing the same role which was to maintain the outward legitimacy and stability of the political system and to mediate conflict between the various groups in the elite , " greene said .
" i would n't expect them to work at cross purposes unless there was a real split between the powerful elite in the country .
there seems to be a broad consensus that this current system needs to continue so i think the relationship between medvedev and putin will remain stable .
the only thing that 's changed is that medvedev has become a bit more comfortable in the position , has begun to understand what he can and can not do and become more confident with his rhetoric and his public persona . "
" there have been lots of attempts to find cracks between them , " light added .
" i think it 's fanciful .
i see no cracks between them .
if medvedev was there just to hold the place for putin until he could run again , the danger was always that medvedev would like the taste of power and decide he wanted to keep it for himself .
i see no sign that this has happened – yet , at any rate .
" however , internationally , medvedev is still seen very much as an instrument of putin 's policy , " light concluded .
" although he fulfills all the roles the constitution affords to the president , i still think there is a very strong feeling internationally that putin is making the decisions and medvedev is simply doing his bidding . "
author : nick amies editor chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de pro-kremlin candidate wins sochi mayoral poll amid claims of fraud amid claims of fraud , anatoly pakhomov , the pro-kremlin candidate in mayoral polls for the russian city of sochi , won a landslide victory in an election seen as a test of the political climate under president medvedev .
-lrb- 27.04.2009 -rrb- critics call putin treason bill means to quash opposition human rights organizations have criticized a new bill that would abolish jury trials for people suspected of treason , hostage-taking , organizing mass disturbances and several other serious crimes .
-lrb- 18.12.2008 -rrb- opinion : russia 's power duo offers tenuous political stability it 's an action-packed week in russian politics with dmitry medvedev and vladimir putin taking up their respective offices .
yet everything is not as rosy as it might appear , says deutsche welle 's ingo mannteufel .
-lrb- 05.05.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
postcard from europe : a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
the secret behind germany 's unemployment rate remaining stagnant -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 29.03.2011 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de labor market -pipe- 07.05.2009 the secret behind germany 's unemployment rate remaining stagnant großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the automobile industry faces eerily empty halls as working hours are slashed german businesses , hard-hit by the financial crisis , resort to a time-tested instrument : rather than fire employees , their working hours are reduced . germany 's economy is expected to shrink by 6 percent this year , according to both the government and leading economic institutes .
but the number of jobless has not skyrocketed , and that is due to the german practice of reduced working hours – not a new concept here , but routinely employed in crises like the 1970s oil embargo , and again after reunification in the early 1990s .
they are all deeply in the red : that is what germany 's leading businesses have in common these days when they look at their first quarter figures .
but rather than lay off valuable workers , they 've ordered reduced working hours .
more than a third of automaker daimler 's and roughly a quarter of bmw 's employees , for instance , are working reduced hours .
at chemical giant basf , more than 4,000 people work shorter hours , and another 3,000 are to join them in june .
production at printer heidelberger druck is down to 11 days a month . instrument to stabilize the job market about 1,4 million people worked shorter hours in april , says germany 's federal labour agency .
the labor market is stable as a result of these many shorter working hours , says agency chief frank-juerrgen weise .
employers revert to shorter working hours when the number of orders dwindles , but the firm wants to keep its skilled workers and specialists .
while the employers only pay wages for the reduced hours , they do continue to pay the full social security dues .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : hundreds-of-thousands manage to keep their jobs but work reduced hours benefits are available from germany 's labor agency for a maximum of 18 months .
workers without children , for instance , can expect 60 percent of their last net salary , families with children are granted seven percent more .
to top that , labour minister olaf scholz last week proposed taking over all social security payments from the companies after half a year , as well as extending the term of shorter working hours from 18 months to two years .
dieter hundt , president of the german employers ' federation bda , was initially opposed to extending to 24 months the option of reduced working hours .
but he welcomed the government 's plan .
" discarding all social security payments is extremely important for the companies , " he said after a meeting last week with scholz and michael sommer , head of the dgb labor federation .
here in germany , social security payments include old age insurance , jobless insurance and health and nursing care insurance – all in all , more than 20 percent of the gross pay package . supporting reduced working hours is expected to cost the federal labor agency about 500 million euros for 100,000 people per year .
critics fear abuse of labor office plans hilmar schneider , director of labor market policies at the institute for the future of labor , iza , is critical of the labor agency 's policy of taking over all social security payments after six months of reduced work . a firm could keep on an employee but reduce his hours to zero , he explains , making him de facto unemployed .
but that employee would still receive his full pay from the labor agency for 24 months . then , the employee could register as unemployed – and would again be eligible for 24 months of financial support .
firms could of course lay off workers , hilmar schneider says , but that is something the government is trying to prevent at all costs .
" with parliamentary elections in september , " the labour market expert says , " the media would be full of mass lay-offs in time for the election . "
danhong zhang / dagmar breitenbach / rob mudge send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de spring employment boost fails to materialize a much-hoped-for springtime jobs boost has failed to materialize , official german figures show .
-lrb- 30.04.2009 -rrb- economic institutes see hard times ahead leading german economic institutes say europe 's largest economy is caught up in the maelstrom of a global recession .
their forecast is even gloomier than the imf 's prediction for 2009 .
-lrb- 23.04.2009 -rrb- germany extends new car subsidy program german chancellor angela merkel 's grand coalition has agreed to boost subsidies for consumers who trade in their old cars for new ones from 1.5 billion euros to five billion euros -lrb- us $ 6.6 billion -rrb- .
-lrb- 08.04.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic listen here to more about " kurzarbeit " feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink news and perspectives from the heart of europe listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
the secret behind germany 's unemployment rate remaining stagnant -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de labor market -pipe- 07.05.2009 the secret behind germany 's unemployment rate remaining stagnant großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the automobile industry faces eerily empty halls as working hours are slashed german businesses , hard-hit by the financial crisis , resort to a time-tested instrument : rather than fire employees , their working hours are reduced . germany 's economy is expected to shrink by 6 percent this year , according to both the government and leading economic institutes .
but the number of jobless has not skyrocketed , and that is due to the german practice of reduced working hours – not a new concept here , but routinely employed in crises like the 1970s oil embargo , and again after reunification in the early 1990s .
they are all deeply in the red : that is what germany 's leading businesses have in common these days when they look at their first quarter figures .
but rather than lay off valuable workers , they 've ordered reduced working hours .
more than a third of automaker daimler 's and roughly a quarter of bmw 's employees , for instance , are working reduced hours .
at chemical giant basf , more than 4,000 people work shorter hours , and another 3,000 are to join them in june .
production at printer heidelberger druck is down to 11 days a month . instrument to stabilize the job market about 1,4 million people worked shorter hours in april , says germany 's federal labour agency .
the labor market is stable as a result of these many shorter working hours , says agency chief frank-juerrgen weise .
employers revert to shorter working hours when the number of orders dwindles , but the firm wants to keep its skilled workers and specialists .
while the employers only pay wages for the reduced hours , they do continue to pay the full social security dues .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : hundreds-of-thousands manage to keep their jobs but work reduced hours benefits are available from germany 's labor agency for a maximum of 18 months .
workers without children , for instance , can expect 60 percent of their last net salary , families with children are granted seven percent more .
to top that , labour minister olaf scholz last week proposed taking over all social security payments from the companies after half a year , as well as extending the term of shorter working hours from 18 months to two years .
dieter hundt , president of the german employers ' federation bda , was initially opposed to extending to 24 months the option of reduced working hours .
but he welcomed the government 's plan .
" discarding all social security payments is extremely important for the companies , " he said after a meeting last week with scholz and michael sommer , head of the dgb labor federation .
here in germany , social security payments include old age insurance , jobless insurance and health and nursing care insurance – all in all , more than 20 percent of the gross pay package . supporting reduced working hours is expected to cost the federal labor agency about 500 million euros for 100,000 people per year .
critics fear abuse of labor office plans hilmar schneider , director of labor market policies at the institute for the future of labor , iza , is critical of the labor agency 's policy of taking over all social security payments after six months of reduced work . a firm could keep on an employee but reduce his hours to zero , he explains , making him de facto unemployed .
but that employee would still receive his full pay from the labor agency for 24 months . then , the employee could register as unemployed – and would again be eligible for 24 months of financial support .
firms could of course lay off workers , hilmar schneider says , but that is something the government is trying to prevent at all costs .
" with parliamentary elections in september , " the labour market expert says , " the media would be full of mass lay-offs in time for the election . "
danhong zhang / dagmar breitenbach / rob mudge send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de spring employment boost fails to materialize a much-hoped-for springtime jobs boost has failed to materialize , official german figures show .
-lrb- 30.04.2009 -rrb- economic institutes see hard times ahead leading german economic institutes say europe 's largest economy is caught up in the maelstrom of a global recession .
their forecast is even gloomier than the imf 's prediction for 2009 .
-lrb- 23.04.2009 -rrb- germany extends new car subsidy program german chancellor angela merkel 's grand coalition has agreed to boost subsidies for consumers who trade in their old cars for new ones from 1.5 billion euros to five billion euros -lrb- us $ 6.6 billion -rrb- .
-lrb- 08.04.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic listen here to more about " kurzarbeit " 9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - news with business we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
digital street art artists in berlin reinvent graffiti by projecting light onto buildings using computer systems .
watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
the secret behind germany 's unemployment rate remaining stagnant -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 15.01.2011 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de labor market -pipe- 07.05.2009 the secret behind germany 's unemployment rate remaining stagnant großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the automobile industry faces eerily empty halls as working hours are slashed german businesses , hard-hit by the financial crisis , resort to a time-tested instrument : rather than fire employees , their working hours are reduced . germany 's economy is expected to shrink by 6 percent this year , according to both the government and leading economic institutes .
but the number of jobless has not skyrocketed , and that is due to the german practice of reduced working hours – not a new concept here , but routinely employed in crises like the 1970s oil embargo , and again after reunification in the early 1990s .
they are all deeply in the red : that is what germany 's leading businesses have in common these days when they look at their first quarter figures .
but rather than lay off valuable workers , they 've ordered reduced working hours .
more than a third of automaker daimler 's and roughly a quarter of bmw 's employees , for instance , are working reduced hours .
at chemical giant basf , more than 4,000 people work shorter hours , and another 3,000 are to join them in june .
production at printer heidelberger druck is down to 11 days a month . instrument to stabilize the job market about 1,4 million people worked shorter hours in april , says germany 's federal labour agency .
the labor market is stable as a result of these many shorter working hours , says agency chief frank-juerrgen weise .
employers revert to shorter working hours when the number of orders dwindles , but the firm wants to keep its skilled workers and specialists .
while the employers only pay wages for the reduced hours , they do continue to pay the full social security dues .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : hundreds-of-thousands manage to keep their jobs but work reduced hours benefits are available from germany 's labor agency for a maximum of 18 months .
workers without children , for instance , can expect 60 percent of their last net salary , families with children are granted seven percent more .
to top that , labour minister olaf scholz last week proposed taking over all social security payments from the companies after half a year , as well as extending the term of shorter working hours from 18 months to two years .
dieter hundt , president of the german employers ' federation bda , was initially opposed to extending to 24 months the option of reduced working hours .
but he welcomed the government 's plan .
" discarding all social security payments is extremely important for the companies , " he said after a meeting last week with scholz and michael sommer , head of the dgb labor federation .
here in germany , social security payments include old age insurance , jobless insurance and health and nursing care insurance – all in all , more than 20 percent of the gross pay package . supporting reduced working hours is expected to cost the federal labor agency about 500 million euros for 100,000 people per year .
critics fear abuse of labor office plans hilmar schneider , director of labor market policies at the institute for the future of labor , iza , is critical of the labor agency 's policy of taking over all social security payments after six months of reduced work . a firm could keep on an employee but reduce his hours to zero , he explains , making him de facto unemployed .
but that employee would still receive his full pay from the labor agency for 24 months . then , the employee could register as unemployed – and would again be eligible for 24 months of financial support .
firms could of course lay off workers , hilmar schneider says , but that is something the government is trying to prevent at all costs .
" with parliamentary elections in september , " the labour market expert says , " the media would be full of mass lay-offs in time for the election . "
danhong zhang / dagmar breitenbach / rob mudge send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de spring employment boost fails to materialize a much-hoped-for springtime jobs boost has failed to materialize , official german figures show .
-lrb- 30.04.2009 -rrb- economic institutes see hard times ahead leading german economic institutes say europe 's largest economy is caught up in the maelstrom of a global recession .
their forecast is even gloomier than the imf 's prediction for 2009 .
-lrb- 23.04.2009 -rrb- germany extends new car subsidy program german chancellor angela merkel 's grand coalition has agreed to boost subsidies for consumers who trade in their old cars for new ones from 1.5 billion euros to five billion euros -lrb- us $ 6.6 billion -rrb- .
-lrb- 08.04.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic listen here to more about " kurzarbeit " feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
the secret behind germany 's unemployment rate remaining stagnant -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.09.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de labor market -pipe- 07.05.2009 the secret behind germany 's unemployment rate remaining stagnant großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the automobile industry faces eerily empty halls as working hours are slashed german businesses , hard-hit by the financial crisis , resort to a time-tested instrument : rather than fire employees , their working hours are reduced . germany 's economy is expected to shrink by 6 percent this year , according to both the government and leading economic institutes .
but the number of jobless has not skyrocketed , and that is due to the german practice of reduced working hours – not a new concept here , but routinely employed in crises like the 1970s oil embargo , and again after reunification in the early 1990s .
they are all deeply in the red : that is what germany 's leading businesses have in common these days when they look at their first quarter figures .
but rather than lay off valuable workers , they 've ordered reduced working hours .
more than a third of automaker daimler 's and roughly a quarter of bmw 's employees , for instance , are working reduced hours .
at chemical giant basf , more than 4,000 people work shorter hours , and another 3,000 are to join them in june .
production at printer heidelberger druck is down to 11 days a month . instrument to stabilize the job market about 1,4 million people worked shorter hours in april , says germany 's federal labour agency .
the labor market is stable as a result of these many shorter working hours , says agency chief frank-juerrgen weise .
employers revert to shorter working hours when the number of orders dwindles , but the firm wants to keep its skilled workers and specialists .
while the employers only pay wages for the reduced hours , they do continue to pay the full social security dues .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : hundreds-of-thousands manage to keep their jobs but work reduced hours benefits are available from germany 's labor agency for a maximum of 18 months .
workers without children , for instance , can expect 60 percent of their last net salary , families with children are granted seven percent more .
to top that , labour minister olaf scholz last week proposed taking over all social security payments from the companies after half a year , as well as extending the term of shorter working hours from 18 months to two years .
dieter hundt , president of the german employers ' federation bda , was initially opposed to extending to 24 months the option of reduced working hours .
but he welcomed the government 's plan .
" discarding all social security payments is extremely important for the companies , " he said after a meeting last week with scholz and michael sommer , head of the dgb labor federation .
here in germany , social security payments include old age insurance , jobless insurance and health and nursing care insurance – all in all , more than 20 percent of the gross pay package . supporting reduced working hours is expected to cost the federal labor agency about 500 million euros for 100,000 people per year .
critics fear abuse of labor office plans hilmar schneider , director of labor market policies at the institute for the future of labor , iza , is critical of the labor agency 's policy of taking over all social security payments after six months of reduced work . a firm could keep on an employee but reduce his hours to zero , he explains , making him de facto unemployed .
but that employee would still receive his full pay from the labor agency for 24 months . then , the employee could register as unemployed – and would again be eligible for 24 months of financial support .
firms could of course lay off workers , hilmar schneider says , but that is something the government is trying to prevent at all costs .
" with parliamentary elections in september , " the labour market expert says , " the media would be full of mass lay-offs in time for the election . "
danhong zhang / dagmar breitenbach / rob mudge send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de spring employment boost fails to materialize a much-hoped-for springtime jobs boost has failed to materialize , official german figures show .
-lrb- 30.04.2009 -rrb- economic institutes see hard times ahead leading german economic institutes say europe 's largest economy is caught up in the maelstrom of a global recession .
their forecast is even gloomier than the imf 's prediction for 2009 .
-lrb- 23.04.2009 -rrb- germany extends new car subsidy program german chancellor angela merkel 's grand coalition has agreed to boost subsidies for consumers who trade in their old cars for new ones from 1.5 billion euros to five billion euros -lrb- us $ 6.6 billion -rrb- .
-lrb- 08.04.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic listen here to more about " kurzarbeit " feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live european business week making europe 's business your business listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
the secret behind germany 's unemployment rate remaining stagnant -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.12.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de labor market -pipe- 07.05.2009 the secret behind germany 's unemployment rate remaining stagnant großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the automobile industry faces eerily empty halls as working hours are slashed german businesses , hard-hit by the financial crisis , resort to a time-tested instrument : rather than fire employees , their working hours are reduced . germany 's economy is expected to shrink by 6 percent this year , according to both the government and leading economic institutes .
but the number of jobless has not skyrocketed , and that is due to the german practice of reduced working hours – not a new concept here , but routinely employed in crises like the 1970s oil embargo , and again after reunification in the early 1990s .
they are all deeply in the red : that is what germany 's leading businesses have in common these days when they look at their first quarter figures .
but rather than lay off valuable workers , they 've ordered reduced working hours .
more than a third of automaker daimler 's and roughly a quarter of bmw 's employees , for instance , are working reduced hours .
at chemical giant basf , more than 4,000 people work shorter hours , and another 3,000 are to join them in june .
production at printer heidelberger druck is down to 11 days a month . instrument to stabilize the job market about 1,4 million people worked shorter hours in april , says germany 's federal labour agency .
the labor market is stable as a result of these many shorter working hours , says agency chief frank-juerrgen weise .
employers revert to shorter working hours when the number of orders dwindles , but the firm wants to keep its skilled workers and specialists .
while the employers only pay wages for the reduced hours , they do continue to pay the full social security dues .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : hundreds-of-thousands manage to keep their jobs but work reduced hours benefits are available from germany 's labor agency for a maximum of 18 months .
workers without children , for instance , can expect 60 percent of their last net salary , families with children are granted seven percent more .
to top that , labour minister olaf scholz last week proposed taking over all social security payments from the companies after half a year , as well as extending the term of shorter working hours from 18 months to two years .
dieter hundt , president of the german employers ' federation bda , was initially opposed to extending to 24 months the option of reduced working hours .
but he welcomed the government 's plan .
" discarding all social security payments is extremely important for the companies , " he said after a meeting last week with scholz and michael sommer , head of the dgb labor federation .
here in germany , social security payments include old age insurance , jobless insurance and health and nursing care insurance – all in all , more than 20 percent of the gross pay package . supporting reduced working hours is expected to cost the federal labor agency about 500 million euros for 100,000 people per year .
critics fear abuse of labor office plans hilmar schneider , director of labor market policies at the institute for the future of labor , iza , is critical of the labor agency 's policy of taking over all social security payments after six months of reduced work . a firm could keep on an employee but reduce his hours to zero , he explains , making him de facto unemployed .
but that employee would still receive his full pay from the labor agency for 24 months . then , the employee could register as unemployed – and would again be eligible for 24 months of financial support .
firms could of course lay off workers , hilmar schneider says , but that is something the government is trying to prevent at all costs .
" with parliamentary elections in september , " the labour market expert says , " the media would be full of mass lay-offs in time for the election . "
danhong zhang / dagmar breitenbach / rob mudge send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de spring employment boost fails to materialize a much-hoped-for springtime jobs boost has failed to materialize , official german figures show .
-lrb- 30.04.2009 -rrb- economic institutes see hard times ahead leading german economic institutes say europe 's largest economy is caught up in the maelstrom of a global recession .
their forecast is even gloomier than the imf 's prediction for 2009 .
-lrb- 23.04.2009 -rrb- germany extends new car subsidy program german chancellor angela merkel 's grand coalition has agreed to boost subsidies for consumers who trade in their old cars for new ones from 1.5 billion euros to five billion euros -lrb- us $ 6.6 billion -rrb- .
-lrb- 08.04.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic listen here to more about " kurzarbeit " feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live hits in germany pop from the german top 100 listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
travel passau is called the three river city , but it is just as famous for its baroque splendor .
passau - baroque facades and vibrant arts watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
the secret behind germany 's unemployment rate remaining stagnant -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 06.11.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de labor market -pipe- 07.05.2009 the secret behind germany 's unemployment rate remaining stagnant großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the automobile industry faces eerily empty halls as working hours are slashed german businesses , hard-hit by the financial crisis , resort to a time-tested instrument : rather than fire employees , their working hours are reduced . germany 's economy is expected to shrink by 6 percent this year , according to both the government and leading economic institutes .
but the number of jobless has not skyrocketed , and that is due to the german practice of reduced working hours – not a new concept here , but routinely employed in crises like the 1970s oil embargo , and again after reunification in the early 1990s .
they are all deeply in the red : that is what germany 's leading businesses have in common these days when they look at their first quarter figures .
but rather than lay off valuable workers , they 've ordered reduced working hours .
more than a third of automaker daimler 's and roughly a quarter of bmw 's employees , for instance , are working reduced hours .
at chemical giant basf , more than 4,000 people work shorter hours , and another 3,000 are to join them in june .
production at printer heidelberger druck is down to 11 days a month . instrument to stabilize the job market about 1,4 million people worked shorter hours in april , says germany 's federal labour agency .
the labor market is stable as a result of these many shorter working hours , says agency chief frank-juerrgen weise .
employers revert to shorter working hours when the number of orders dwindles , but the firm wants to keep its skilled workers and specialists .
while the employers only pay wages for the reduced hours , they do continue to pay the full social security dues .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : hundreds-of-thousands manage to keep their jobs but work reduced hours benefits are available from germany 's labor agency for a maximum of 18 months .
workers without children , for instance , can expect 60 percent of their last net salary , families with children are granted seven percent more .
to top that , labour minister olaf scholz last week proposed taking over all social security payments from the companies after half a year , as well as extending the term of shorter working hours from 18 months to two years .
dieter hundt , president of the german employers ' federation bda , was initially opposed to extending to 24 months the option of reduced working hours .
but he welcomed the government 's plan .
" discarding all social security payments is extremely important for the companies , " he said after a meeting last week with scholz and michael sommer , head of the dgb labor federation .
here in germany , social security payments include old age insurance , jobless insurance and health and nursing care insurance – all in all , more than 20 percent of the gross pay package . supporting reduced working hours is expected to cost the federal labor agency about 500 million euros for 100,000 people per year .
critics fear abuse of labor office plans hilmar schneider , director of labor market policies at the institute for the future of labor , iza , is critical of the labor agency 's policy of taking over all social security payments after six months of reduced work . a firm could keep on an employee but reduce his hours to zero , he explains , making him de facto unemployed .
but that employee would still receive his full pay from the labor agency for 24 months . then , the employee could register as unemployed – and would again be eligible for 24 months of financial support .
firms could of course lay off workers , hilmar schneider says , but that is something the government is trying to prevent at all costs .
" with parliamentary elections in september , " the labour market expert says , " the media would be full of mass lay-offs in time for the election . "
danhong zhang / dagmar breitenbach / rob mudge send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de spring employment boost fails to materialize a much-hoped-for springtime jobs boost has failed to materialize , official german figures show .
-lrb- 30.04.2009 -rrb- economic institutes see hard times ahead leading german economic institutes say europe 's largest economy is caught up in the maelstrom of a global recession .
their forecast is even gloomier than the imf 's prediction for 2009 .
-lrb- 23.04.2009 -rrb- germany extends new car subsidy program german chancellor angela merkel 's grand coalition has agreed to boost subsidies for consumers who trade in their old cars for new ones from 1.5 billion euros to five billion euros -lrb- us $ 6.6 billion -rrb- .
-lrb- 08.04.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic listen here to more about " kurzarbeit " feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
bremen book a place in the uefa cup final , clinching a win against rivals hamburg -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 05.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de soccer -pipe- 07.05.2009 bremen book a place in the uefa cup final , clinching a win against rivals hamburg großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bremen 's diego scores but will miss the uefa cup final .
werder bremen came from a goal down to win 3-2 away to sv hamburg thursday to book a uefa cup final date in istanbul against ukrainian side shakhtar donetsk . diego , claudio pizarro and frank baumann were the goal-scoring heroes for bremen to advance to their first ever european final on may 20 in istanbul .
bremen went into the clash trailing 1-0 from the first leg but conceded a goal to hosts hamburg in the 13th minute when joris mathijsen powered his way upfield from defence before finding ivica olic who chipped the ball over bremen 's goalkeepr tim wiese .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : hamburgs 's ivica olic , left , scores his side 's first goal past bremen 's goalkeeper tim wiese olic could have doubled hamburg 's lead on 27 minutes but his effort from close range was saved .
within two minutes bremen were level when diego and pizarro combined well before the brazilian slotted the ball past frank rost .
diego nearly netted a second on 37 minutes but his shot from 25 metres hit the crossbar .
however , the 24-year-old was booked two minutes before the break for an off-the-ball row with alex silva , who also saw yellow , meaning the brazilian will miss the final .
" it was a difficult situation i did n't do anything , not to go to the final is very bad for me , " said diego .
peruvian striker pizarro scored on 66 minutes , beating rost at the near post although the hamburg goalkeeper really should have done better .
baumann looked to have put the game beyond hamburg with bremen 's third seven minutes from time and although olic popped up to score his second of the game to make it 3-2 on the night to set up a tense finale , bremen held on to make it to their first uefa cup final .
" we played well , it was tough to come from two goals down , " said pizarro .
" diego played a great match its a pity he 's not in the final but thats football . "
bremen are the first german side to reach a uefa cup final since borussia dortmund reached the final in 2002 only to lose against feyenoord rotterdam .
ruhr valley side schalke 04 were the last german winners back in 1997 .
same procedure ?
thursday 's semi-final fixture is the third in a series of four matches to be played between the two northern german clubs within a 19-day period . the first game went bremen 's way when goalkeeper tim wiese made three saves in a penalty shootout to knock hamburg out of the german cup semi-final on april 22 . the second saw hamburg gain revenge eight days later with its 0-1 victory in bremen .
the fourth and final derby match is a bundesliga fixture scheduled for sunday , may 10 . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : thomas schaaf has coached werder bremen for a decade intense rivalry as the two biggest cities in northern germany , hamburg and bremen have a long history of competing with each other as hanseatic trading powers , regional centers of industry and culture , and sporting contenders . " what 's very special is that they more or less share the same backyard from which they can get their soccer fans , " deutsche welle 's sports head wolfgang van kann says .
" so it 's always a question of who is better , and where the fans will go . " from a historical perspective , it 's difficult to say which club has been more successful .
according to the so-called " eternal table , " which records the performances of all bundesliga clubs since the competition was founded in 1963 , werder bremen and hamburg are ranked second and third respectively .
at the time of writing , they were separated by just six points . " clearly hamburg has the longer tradition and the longer streak of success , " van kann says .
" bremen has only come up in the last one or two decades , but with huge success . " while hamburg has n't won a title since it lifted the german cup in 1987 , bremen won the german double in 2004 and has qualified for the champions league for the past five seasons . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : fans were disgusted when hooligans killed a 16-year-old in 1982 " the clubs have always been very different , " van kann explains .
" for example you can see that hamburg has had several coaches within the past few years , while bremen has only had one coach for the last 10 years . " fan violence one thing the two clubs do have in common is a dedicated fan base .
hamburg boasts almost 55,000 members , while bremen has more than 30,000 .
but violence involving so-called " ultras " and militant fan groups has driven a wedge between the two cities on more than one occasion . the worst incident took place in october 1982 , when hamburg hosted bremen for a second-round german cup match .
despite a large police presence around the main train station and the stadium , hooligans belonging to a group known as the " hamburg lions " attacked visitors with beer cans , stones and fireworks . a 16-year-old bremen fan named adrian maleika was killed after he was hit on the head by a stone .
while most of germany was shocked , a number of hard-line fans were quoted in the press as being indifferent or hungry for revenge . tensions between supporters of the rival clubs threatened to boil over until representatives of more than 200 fan groups met in the town of scheessel , half-way between bremen and hamburg , and signed a " peace deal " banning revenge attacks . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : werder bremen topped the bundesliga in 1993 and 2004 while provocative lyrics sung in stadiums during northern derbies occasionally refer to the incident , most fans have put the conflict behind them , and prefer to remember - or forget - these four landmark matches from the past 30 years : bremen 6-0 hamburg , may 1 , 2004 the most one-sided result between the two clubs was in bremen as the 2003-04 bundesliga season drew to an end .
some 42,000 spectators watched hamburg striker sergej barbarez score an own-goal and trigger an avalanche of bremen goals .
one match later , werder bremen won the championship with a spectacular 3-1 victory over bayern munich . bremen 4-2 hamburg , october 27 , 1993 just over 34,000 fans turned out to watch the fourth round german cup fixture in bremen 's weserstadion .
austrian midfielder andreas herzog gave bremen an early lead , but hamburg managed to score twice after the break before bernd hobsch leveled the scores in the 74th minute .
when hamburg 's andreas sassen was shown a red card , bremen 's frank neubarth and wynton rufer capitalized by both finding the net in the final four minutes .
the convincing victory saw werder bremen progress through the tournament to win the 1993 german cup . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : horst hrubesch was a key player for hamburg in 1982 .
bremen 5-0 hamburg , may 29 , 1993 bremen also secured the bundesliga crown with one game to spare in 1993 thanks to this overwhelming victory .
andreas herzog and wynton rufer both scored as the home crowd celebrated their club 's third title .
bremen ended the season one point ahead of bayern munich , leaving hamburg to finish 11th .
legendary bremen coach otto rehhagel described the victory as a " milestone " for the club . hamburg 5-0 bremen , may 15 , 1982 one of hamburg 's two highest-ever wins against their northern derby rivals came in the closing stages of the 1981/1982 campaign .
a total of 53,400 fans watched horst hrubesch - now germany 's under-21 coach - score a hat-trick as hamburg demolished bremen 's defense to win the bundesliga title at the expense of second-placed fc cologne . author : sam edmonds editor : darren mara send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de hamburg move closer to uefa final after bremen defeat sv hamburg took the advantage on thursday after defeating bremen 1-0 in the first leg of their uefa cup semi-final matches .
hamburg 's coach says their position is good for the second leg , but bremen is not giving up .
-lrb- 01.05.2009 -rrb- german , ukrainian clubs fight for uefa cup honors domestic pride will be at stake in europe when ukrainian and german clubs battle against each other in the semi-finals of the uefa cup in first-leg matches on thursday .
-lrb- 30.04.2009 -rrb- werder bremen beat hamburg in cup semi-final bremen beat hamburg on penalties to reach the cup final .
bremen 's goalie tim wiese was the man of the game as he saved three penalties .
his side will now face leverkusen in the final .
-lrb- 23.04.2009 -rrb- 9800 dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio listen to the latest from german soccer on dw-radio .
sports report scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results .
dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
bremen book a place in the uefa cup final , clinching a win against rivals hamburg -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 01.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de soccer -pipe- 07.05.2009 bremen book a place in the uefa cup final , clinching a win against rivals hamburg großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bremen 's diego scores but will miss the uefa cup final .
werder bremen came from a goal down to win 3-2 away to sv hamburg thursday to book a uefa cup final date in istanbul against ukrainian side shakhtar donetsk . diego , claudio pizarro and frank baumann were the goal-scoring heroes for bremen to advance to their first ever european final on may 20 in istanbul .
bremen went into the clash trailing 1-0 from the first leg but conceded a goal to hosts hamburg in the 13th minute when joris mathijsen powered his way upfield from defence before finding ivica olic who chipped the ball over bremen 's goalkeepr tim wiese .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : hamburgs 's ivica olic , left , scores his side 's first goal past bremen 's goalkeeper tim wiese olic could have doubled hamburg 's lead on 27 minutes but his effort from close range was saved .
within two minutes bremen were level when diego and pizarro combined well before the brazilian slotted the ball past frank rost .
diego nearly netted a second on 37 minutes but his shot from 25 metres hit the crossbar .
however , the 24-year-old was booked two minutes before the break for an off-the-ball row with alex silva , who also saw yellow , meaning the brazilian will miss the final .
" it was a difficult situation i did n't do anything , not to go to the final is very bad for me , " said diego .
peruvian striker pizarro scored on 66 minutes , beating rost at the near post although the hamburg goalkeeper really should have done better .
baumann looked to have put the game beyond hamburg with bremen 's third seven minutes from time and although olic popped up to score his second of the game to make it 3-2 on the night to set up a tense finale , bremen held on to make it to their first uefa cup final .
" we played well , it was tough to come from two goals down , " said pizarro .
" diego played a great match its a pity he 's not in the final but thats football . "
bremen are the first german side to reach a uefa cup final since borussia dortmund reached the final in 2002 only to lose against feyenoord rotterdam .
ruhr valley side schalke 04 were the last german winners back in 1997 .
same procedure ?
thursday 's semi-final fixture is the third in a series of four matches to be played between the two northern german clubs within a 19-day period . the first game went bremen 's way when goalkeeper tim wiese made three saves in a penalty shootout to knock hamburg out of the german cup semi-final on april 22 . the second saw hamburg gain revenge eight days later with its 0-1 victory in bremen .
the fourth and final derby match is a bundesliga fixture scheduled for sunday , may 10 . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : thomas schaaf has coached werder bremen for a decade intense rivalry as the two biggest cities in northern germany , hamburg and bremen have a long history of competing with each other as hanseatic trading powers , regional centers of industry and culture , and sporting contenders . " what 's very special is that they more or less share the same backyard from which they can get their soccer fans , " deutsche welle 's sports head wolfgang van kann says .
" so it 's always a question of who is better , and where the fans will go . " from a historical perspective , it 's difficult to say which club has been more successful .
according to the so-called " eternal table , " which records the performances of all bundesliga clubs since the competition was founded in 1963 , werder bremen and hamburg are ranked second and third respectively .
at the time of writing , they were separated by just six points . " clearly hamburg has the longer tradition and the longer streak of success , " van kann says .
" bremen has only come up in the last one or two decades , but with huge success . " while hamburg has n't won a title since it lifted the german cup in 1987 , bremen won the german double in 2004 and has qualified for the champions league for the past five seasons . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : fans were disgusted when hooligans killed a 16-year-old in 1982 " the clubs have always been very different , " van kann explains .
" for example you can see that hamburg has had several coaches within the past few years , while bremen has only had one coach for the last 10 years . " fan violence one thing the two clubs do have in common is a dedicated fan base .
hamburg boasts almost 55,000 members , while bremen has more than 30,000 .
but violence involving so-called " ultras " and militant fan groups has driven a wedge between the two cities on more than one occasion . the worst incident took place in october 1982 , when hamburg hosted bremen for a second-round german cup match .
despite a large police presence around the main train station and the stadium , hooligans belonging to a group known as the " hamburg lions " attacked visitors with beer cans , stones and fireworks . a 16-year-old bremen fan named adrian maleika was killed after he was hit on the head by a stone .
while most of germany was shocked , a number of hard-line fans were quoted in the press as being indifferent or hungry for revenge . tensions between supporters of the rival clubs threatened to boil over until representatives of more than 200 fan groups met in the town of scheessel , half-way between bremen and hamburg , and signed a " peace deal " banning revenge attacks . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : werder bremen topped the bundesliga in 1993 and 2004 while provocative lyrics sung in stadiums during northern derbies occasionally refer to the incident , most fans have put the conflict behind them , and prefer to remember - or forget - these four landmark matches from the past 30 years : bremen 6-0 hamburg , may 1 , 2004 the most one-sided result between the two clubs was in bremen as the 2003-04 bundesliga season drew to an end .
some 42,000 spectators watched hamburg striker sergej barbarez score an own-goal and trigger an avalanche of bremen goals .
one match later , werder bremen won the championship with a spectacular 3-1 victory over bayern munich . bremen 4-2 hamburg , october 27 , 1993 just over 34,000 fans turned out to watch the fourth round german cup fixture in bremen 's weserstadion .
austrian midfielder andreas herzog gave bremen an early lead , but hamburg managed to score twice after the break before bernd hobsch leveled the scores in the 74th minute .
when hamburg 's andreas sassen was shown a red card , bremen 's frank neubarth and wynton rufer capitalized by both finding the net in the final four minutes .
the convincing victory saw werder bremen progress through the tournament to win the 1993 german cup . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : horst hrubesch was a key player for hamburg in 1982 .
bremen 5-0 hamburg , may 29 , 1993 bremen also secured the bundesliga crown with one game to spare in 1993 thanks to this overwhelming victory .
andreas herzog and wynton rufer both scored as the home crowd celebrated their club 's third title .
bremen ended the season one point ahead of bayern munich , leaving hamburg to finish 11th .
legendary bremen coach otto rehhagel described the victory as a " milestone " for the club . hamburg 5-0 bremen , may 15 , 1982 one of hamburg 's two highest-ever wins against their northern derby rivals came in the closing stages of the 1981/1982 campaign .
a total of 53,400 fans watched horst hrubesch - now germany 's under-21 coach - score a hat-trick as hamburg demolished bremen 's defense to win the bundesliga title at the expense of second-placed fc cologne . author : sam edmonds editor : darren mara send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de hamburg move closer to uefa final after bremen defeat sv hamburg took the advantage on thursday after defeating bremen 1-0 in the first leg of their uefa cup semi-final matches .
hamburg 's coach says their position is good for the second leg , but bremen is not giving up .
-lrb- 01.05.2009 -rrb- german , ukrainian clubs fight for uefa cup honors domestic pride will be at stake in europe when ukrainian and german clubs battle against each other in the semi-finals of the uefa cup in first-leg matches on thursday .
-lrb- 30.04.2009 -rrb- werder bremen beat hamburg in cup semi-final bremen beat hamburg on penalties to reach the cup final .
bremen 's goalie tim wiese was the man of the game as he saved three penalties .
his side will now face leverkusen in the final .
-lrb- 23.04.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer on dw-radio .
sports report scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia mönchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
bremen book a place in the uefa cup final , clinching a win against rivals hamburg -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 15.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de soccer -pipe- 07.05.2009 bremen book a place in the uefa cup final , clinching a win against rivals hamburg großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bremen 's diego scores but will miss the uefa cup final .
werder bremen came from a goal down to win 3-2 away to sv hamburg thursday to book a uefa cup final date in istanbul against ukrainian side shakhtar donetsk . diego , claudio pizarro and frank baumann were the goal-scoring heroes for bremen to advance to their first ever european final on may 20 in istanbul .
bremen went into the clash trailing 1-0 from the first leg but conceded a goal to hosts hamburg in the 13th minute when joris mathijsen powered his way upfield from defence before finding ivica olic who chipped the ball over bremen 's goalkeepr tim wiese .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : hamburgs 's ivica olic , left , scores his side 's first goal past bremen 's goalkeeper tim wiese olic could have doubled hamburg 's lead on 27 minutes but his effort from close range was saved .
within two minutes bremen were level when diego and pizarro combined well before the brazilian slotted the ball past frank rost .
diego nearly netted a second on 37 minutes but his shot from 25 metres hit the crossbar .
however , the 24-year-old was booked two minutes before the break for an off-the-ball row with alex silva , who also saw yellow , meaning the brazilian will miss the final .
" it was a difficult situation i did n't do anything , not to go to the final is very bad for me , " said diego .
peruvian striker pizarro scored on 66 minutes , beating rost at the near post although the hamburg goalkeeper really should have done better .
baumann looked to have put the game beyond hamburg with bremen 's third seven minutes from time and although olic popped up to score his second of the game to make it 3-2 on the night to set up a tense finale , bremen held on to make it to their first uefa cup final .
" we played well , it was tough to come from two goals down , " said pizarro .
" diego played a great match its a pity he 's not in the final but thats football . "
bremen are the first german side to reach a uefa cup final since borussia dortmund reached the final in 2002 only to lose against feyenoord rotterdam .
ruhr valley side schalke 04 were the last german winners back in 1997 .
same procedure ?
thursday 's semi-final fixture is the third in a series of four matches to be played between the two northern german clubs within a 19-day period . the first game went bremen 's way when goalkeeper tim wiese made three saves in a penalty shootout to knock hamburg out of the german cup semi-final on april 22 . the second saw hamburg gain revenge eight days later with its 0-1 victory in bremen .
the fourth and final derby match is a bundesliga fixture scheduled for sunday , may 10 . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : thomas schaaf has coached werder bremen for a decade intense rivalry as the two biggest cities in northern germany , hamburg and bremen have a long history of competing with each other as hanseatic trading powers , regional centers of industry and culture , and sporting contenders . " what 's very special is that they more or less share the same backyard from which they can get their soccer fans , " deutsche welle 's sports head wolfgang van kann says .
" so it 's always a question of who is better , and where the fans will go . " from a historical perspective , it 's difficult to say which club has been more successful .
according to the so-called " eternal table , " which records the performances of all bundesliga clubs since the competition was founded in 1963 , werder bremen and hamburg are ranked second and third respectively .
at the time of writing , they were separated by just six points . " clearly hamburg has the longer tradition and the longer streak of success , " van kann says .
" bremen has only come up in the last one or two decades , but with huge success . " while hamburg has n't won a title since it lifted the german cup in 1987 , bremen won the german double in 2004 and has qualified for the champions league for the past five seasons . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : fans were disgusted when hooligans killed a 16-year-old in 1982 " the clubs have always been very different , " van kann explains .
" for example you can see that hamburg has had several coaches within the past few years , while bremen has only had one coach for the last 10 years . " fan violence one thing the two clubs do have in common is a dedicated fan base .
hamburg boasts almost 55,000 members , while bremen has more than 30,000 .
but violence involving so-called " ultras " and militant fan groups has driven a wedge between the two cities on more than one occasion . the worst incident took place in october 1982 , when hamburg hosted bremen for a second-round german cup match .
despite a large police presence around the main train station and the stadium , hooligans belonging to a group known as the " hamburg lions " attacked visitors with beer cans , stones and fireworks . a 16-year-old bremen fan named adrian maleika was killed after he was hit on the head by a stone .
while most of germany was shocked , a number of hard-line fans were quoted in the press as being indifferent or hungry for revenge . tensions between supporters of the rival clubs threatened to boil over until representatives of more than 200 fan groups met in the town of scheessel , half-way between bremen and hamburg , and signed a " peace deal " banning revenge attacks . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : werder bremen topped the bundesliga in 1993 and 2004 while provocative lyrics sung in stadiums during northern derbies occasionally refer to the incident , most fans have put the conflict behind them , and prefer to remember - or forget - these four landmark matches from the past 30 years : bremen 6-0 hamburg , may 1 , 2004 the most one-sided result between the two clubs was in bremen as the 2003-04 bundesliga season drew to an end .
some 42,000 spectators watched hamburg striker sergej barbarez score an own-goal and trigger an avalanche of bremen goals .
one match later , werder bremen won the championship with a spectacular 3-1 victory over bayern munich . bremen 4-2 hamburg , october 27 , 1993 just over 34,000 fans turned out to watch the fourth round german cup fixture in bremen 's weserstadion .
austrian midfielder andreas herzog gave bremen an early lead , but hamburg managed to score twice after the break before bernd hobsch leveled the scores in the 74th minute .
when hamburg 's andreas sassen was shown a red card , bremen 's frank neubarth and wynton rufer capitalized by both finding the net in the final four minutes .
the convincing victory saw werder bremen progress through the tournament to win the 1993 german cup . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : horst hrubesch was a key player for hamburg in 1982 .
bremen 5-0 hamburg , may 29 , 1993 bremen also secured the bundesliga crown with one game to spare in 1993 thanks to this overwhelming victory .
andreas herzog and wynton rufer both scored as the home crowd celebrated their club 's third title .
bremen ended the season one point ahead of bayern munich , leaving hamburg to finish 11th .
legendary bremen coach otto rehhagel described the victory as a " milestone " for the club . hamburg 5-0 bremen , may 15 , 1982 one of hamburg 's two highest-ever wins against their northern derby rivals came in the closing stages of the 1981/1982 campaign .
a total of 53,400 fans watched horst hrubesch - now germany 's under-21 coach - score a hat-trick as hamburg demolished bremen 's defense to win the bundesliga title at the expense of second-placed fc cologne . author : sam edmonds editor : darren mara send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de hamburg move closer to uefa final after bremen defeat sv hamburg took the advantage on thursday after defeating bremen 1-0 in the first leg of their uefa cup semi-final matches .
hamburg 's coach says their position is good for the second leg , but bremen is not giving up .
-lrb- 01.05.2009 -rrb- german , ukrainian clubs fight for uefa cup honors domestic pride will be at stake in europe when ukrainian and german clubs battle against each other in the semi-finals of the uefa cup in first-leg matches on thursday .
-lrb- 30.04.2009 -rrb- werder bremen beat hamburg in cup semi-final bremen beat hamburg on penalties to reach the cup final .
bremen 's goalie tim wiese was the man of the game as he saved three penalties .
his side will now face leverkusen in the final .
-lrb- 23.04.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report high scorer freiburg 's papiss demba cisse opens up to dw-tv 's bundesliga kick off ! about his goalscoring ways .
watch the report scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results at a glance .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia moenchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
bremen book a place in the uefa cup final , clinching a win against rivals hamburg -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 21.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de soccer -pipe- 07.05.2009 bremen book a place in the uefa cup final , clinching a win against rivals hamburg großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bremen 's diego scores but will miss the uefa cup final .
werder bremen came from a goal down to win 3-2 away to sv hamburg thursday to book a uefa cup final date in istanbul against ukrainian side shakhtar donetsk . diego , claudio pizarro and frank baumann were the goal-scoring heroes for bremen to advance to their first ever european final on may 20 in istanbul .
bremen went into the clash trailing 1-0 from the first leg but conceded a goal to hosts hamburg in the 13th minute when joris mathijsen powered his way upfield from defence before finding ivica olic who chipped the ball over bremen 's goalkeepr tim wiese .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : hamburgs 's ivica olic , left , scores his side 's first goal past bremen 's goalkeeper tim wiese olic could have doubled hamburg 's lead on 27 minutes but his effort from close range was saved .
within two minutes bremen were level when diego and pizarro combined well before the brazilian slotted the ball past frank rost .
diego nearly netted a second on 37 minutes but his shot from 25 metres hit the crossbar .
however , the 24-year-old was booked two minutes before the break for an off-the-ball row with alex silva , who also saw yellow , meaning the brazilian will miss the final .
" it was a difficult situation i did n't do anything , not to go to the final is very bad for me , " said diego .
peruvian striker pizarro scored on 66 minutes , beating rost at the near post although the hamburg goalkeeper really should have done better .
baumann looked to have put the game beyond hamburg with bremen 's third seven minutes from time and although olic popped up to score his second of the game to make it 3-2 on the night to set up a tense finale , bremen held on to make it to their first uefa cup final .
" we played well , it was tough to come from two goals down , " said pizarro .
" diego played a great match its a pity he 's not in the final but thats football . "
bremen are the first german side to reach a uefa cup final since borussia dortmund reached the final in 2002 only to lose against feyenoord rotterdam .
ruhr valley side schalke 04 were the last german winners back in 1997 .
same procedure ?
thursday 's semi-final fixture is the third in a series of four matches to be played between the two northern german clubs within a 19-day period . the first game went bremen 's way when goalkeeper tim wiese made three saves in a penalty shootout to knock hamburg out of the german cup semi-final on april 22 . the second saw hamburg gain revenge eight days later with its 0-1 victory in bremen .
the fourth and final derby match is a bundesliga fixture scheduled for sunday , may 10 . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : thomas schaaf has coached werder bremen for a decade intense rivalry as the two biggest cities in northern germany , hamburg and bremen have a long history of competing with each other as hanseatic trading powers , regional centers of industry and culture , and sporting contenders . " what 's very special is that they more or less share the same backyard from which they can get their soccer fans , " deutsche welle 's sports head wolfgang van kann says .
" so it 's always a question of who is better , and where the fans will go . " from a historical perspective , it 's difficult to say which club has been more successful .
according to the so-called " eternal table , " which records the performances of all bundesliga clubs since the competition was founded in 1963 , werder bremen and hamburg are ranked second and third respectively .
at the time of writing , they were separated by just six points . " clearly hamburg has the longer tradition and the longer streak of success , " van kann says .
" bremen has only come up in the last one or two decades , but with huge success . " while hamburg has n't won a title since it lifted the german cup in 1987 , bremen won the german double in 2004 and has qualified for the champions league for the past five seasons . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : fans were disgusted when hooligans killed a 16-year-old in 1982 " the clubs have always been very different , " van kann explains .
" for example you can see that hamburg has had several coaches within the past few years , while bremen has only had one coach for the last 10 years . " fan violence one thing the two clubs do have in common is a dedicated fan base .
hamburg boasts almost 55,000 members , while bremen has more than 30,000 .
but violence involving so-called " ultras " and militant fan groups has driven a wedge between the two cities on more than one occasion . the worst incident took place in october 1982 , when hamburg hosted bremen for a second-round german cup match .
despite a large police presence around the main train station and the stadium , hooligans belonging to a group known as the " hamburg lions " attacked visitors with beer cans , stones and fireworks . a 16-year-old bremen fan named adrian maleika was killed after he was hit on the head by a stone .
while most of germany was shocked , a number of hard-line fans were quoted in the press as being indifferent or hungry for revenge . tensions between supporters of the rival clubs threatened to boil over until representatives of more than 200 fan groups met in the town of scheessel , half-way between bremen and hamburg , and signed a " peace deal " banning revenge attacks . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : werder bremen topped the bundesliga in 1993 and 2004 while provocative lyrics sung in stadiums during northern derbies occasionally refer to the incident , most fans have put the conflict behind them , and prefer to remember - or forget - these four landmark matches from the past 30 years : bremen 6-0 hamburg , may 1 , 2004 the most one-sided result between the two clubs was in bremen as the 2003-04 bundesliga season drew to an end .
some 42,000 spectators watched hamburg striker sergej barbarez score an own-goal and trigger an avalanche of bremen goals .
one match later , werder bremen won the championship with a spectacular 3-1 victory over bayern munich . bremen 4-2 hamburg , october 27 , 1993 just over 34,000 fans turned out to watch the fourth round german cup fixture in bremen 's weserstadion .
austrian midfielder andreas herzog gave bremen an early lead , but hamburg managed to score twice after the break before bernd hobsch leveled the scores in the 74th minute .
when hamburg 's andreas sassen was shown a red card , bremen 's frank neubarth and wynton rufer capitalized by both finding the net in the final four minutes .
the convincing victory saw werder bremen progress through the tournament to win the 1993 german cup . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : horst hrubesch was a key player for hamburg in 1982 .
bremen 5-0 hamburg , may 29 , 1993 bremen also secured the bundesliga crown with one game to spare in 1993 thanks to this overwhelming victory .
andreas herzog and wynton rufer both scored as the home crowd celebrated their club 's third title .
bremen ended the season one point ahead of bayern munich , leaving hamburg to finish 11th .
legendary bremen coach otto rehhagel described the victory as a " milestone " for the club . hamburg 5-0 bremen , may 15 , 1982 one of hamburg 's two highest-ever wins against their northern derby rivals came in the closing stages of the 1981/1982 campaign .
a total of 53,400 fans watched horst hrubesch - now germany 's under-21 coach - score a hat-trick as hamburg demolished bremen 's defense to win the bundesliga title at the expense of second-placed fc cologne . author : sam edmonds editor : darren mara send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de hamburg move closer to uefa final after bremen defeat sv hamburg took the advantage on thursday after defeating bremen 1-0 in the first leg of their uefa cup semi-final matches .
hamburg 's coach says their position is good for the second leg , but bremen is not giving up .
-lrb- 01.05.2009 -rrb- german , ukrainian clubs fight for uefa cup honors domestic pride will be at stake in europe when ukrainian and german clubs battle against each other in the semi-finals of the uefa cup in first-leg matches on thursday .
-lrb- 30.04.2009 -rrb- werder bremen beat hamburg in cup semi-final bremen beat hamburg on penalties to reach the cup final .
bremen 's goalie tim wiese was the man of the game as he saved three penalties .
his side will now face leverkusen in the final .
-lrb- 23.04.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 dw-tv europe live im focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results at a glance .
dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia moenchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
bremen book a place in the uefa cup final , clinching a win against rivals hamburg -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 31.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de soccer -pipe- 07.05.2009 bremen book a place in the uefa cup final , clinching a win against rivals hamburg großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bremen 's diego scores but will miss the uefa cup final .
werder bremen came from a goal down to win 3-2 away to sv hamburg thursday to book a uefa cup final date in istanbul against ukrainian side shakhtar donetsk . diego , claudio pizarro and frank baumann were the goal-scoring heroes for bremen to advance to their first ever european final on may 20 in istanbul .
bremen went into the clash trailing 1-0 from the first leg but conceded a goal to hosts hamburg in the 13th minute when joris mathijsen powered his way upfield from defence before finding ivica olic who chipped the ball over bremen 's goalkeepr tim wiese .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : hamburgs 's ivica olic , left , scores his side 's first goal past bremen 's goalkeeper tim wiese olic could have doubled hamburg 's lead on 27 minutes but his effort from close range was saved .
within two minutes bremen were level when diego and pizarro combined well before the brazilian slotted the ball past frank rost .
diego nearly netted a second on 37 minutes but his shot from 25 metres hit the crossbar .
however , the 24-year-old was booked two minutes before the break for an off-the-ball row with alex silva , who also saw yellow , meaning the brazilian will miss the final .
" it was a difficult situation i did n't do anything , not to go to the final is very bad for me , " said diego .
peruvian striker pizarro scored on 66 minutes , beating rost at the near post although the hamburg goalkeeper really should have done better .
baumann looked to have put the game beyond hamburg with bremen 's third seven minutes from time and although olic popped up to score his second of the game to make it 3-2 on the night to set up a tense finale , bremen held on to make it to their first uefa cup final .
" we played well , it was tough to come from two goals down , " said pizarro .
" diego played a great match its a pity he 's not in the final but thats football . "
bremen are the first german side to reach a uefa cup final since borussia dortmund reached the final in 2002 only to lose against feyenoord rotterdam .
ruhr valley side schalke 04 were the last german winners back in 1997 .
same procedure ?
thursday 's semi-final fixture is the third in a series of four matches to be played between the two northern german clubs within a 19-day period . the first game went bremen 's way when goalkeeper tim wiese made three saves in a penalty shootout to knock hamburg out of the german cup semi-final on april 22 . the second saw hamburg gain revenge eight days later with its 0-1 victory in bremen .
the fourth and final derby match is a bundesliga fixture scheduled for sunday , may 10 . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : thomas schaaf has coached werder bremen for a decade intense rivalry as the two biggest cities in northern germany , hamburg and bremen have a long history of competing with each other as hanseatic trading powers , regional centers of industry and culture , and sporting contenders . " what 's very special is that they more or less share the same backyard from which they can get their soccer fans , " deutsche welle 's sports head wolfgang van kann says .
" so it 's always a question of who is better , and where the fans will go . " from a historical perspective , it 's difficult to say which club has been more successful .
according to the so-called " eternal table , " which records the performances of all bundesliga clubs since the competition was founded in 1963 , werder bremen and hamburg are ranked second and third respectively .
at the time of writing , they were separated by just six points . " clearly hamburg has the longer tradition and the longer streak of success , " van kann says .
" bremen has only come up in the last one or two decades , but with huge success . " while hamburg has n't won a title since it lifted the german cup in 1987 , bremen won the german double in 2004 and has qualified for the champions league for the past five seasons . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : fans were disgusted when hooligans killed a 16-year-old in 1982 " the clubs have always been very different , " van kann explains .
" for example you can see that hamburg has had several coaches within the past few years , while bremen has only had one coach for the last 10 years . " fan violence one thing the two clubs do have in common is a dedicated fan base .
hamburg boasts almost 55,000 members , while bremen has more than 30,000 .
but violence involving so-called " ultras " and militant fan groups has driven a wedge between the two cities on more than one occasion . the worst incident took place in october 1982 , when hamburg hosted bremen for a second-round german cup match .
despite a large police presence around the main train station and the stadium , hooligans belonging to a group known as the " hamburg lions " attacked visitors with beer cans , stones and fireworks . a 16-year-old bremen fan named adrian maleika was killed after he was hit on the head by a stone .
while most of germany was shocked , a number of hard-line fans were quoted in the press as being indifferent or hungry for revenge . tensions between supporters of the rival clubs threatened to boil over until representatives of more than 200 fan groups met in the town of scheessel , half-way between bremen and hamburg , and signed a " peace deal " banning revenge attacks . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : werder bremen topped the bundesliga in 1993 and 2004 while provocative lyrics sung in stadiums during northern derbies occasionally refer to the incident , most fans have put the conflict behind them , and prefer to remember - or forget - these four landmark matches from the past 30 years : bremen 6-0 hamburg , may 1 , 2004 the most one-sided result between the two clubs was in bremen as the 2003-04 bundesliga season drew to an end .
some 42,000 spectators watched hamburg striker sergej barbarez score an own-goal and trigger an avalanche of bremen goals .
one match later , werder bremen won the championship with a spectacular 3-1 victory over bayern munich . bremen 4-2 hamburg , october 27 , 1993 just over 34,000 fans turned out to watch the fourth round german cup fixture in bremen 's weserstadion .
austrian midfielder andreas herzog gave bremen an early lead , but hamburg managed to score twice after the break before bernd hobsch leveled the scores in the 74th minute .
when hamburg 's andreas sassen was shown a red card , bremen 's frank neubarth and wynton rufer capitalized by both finding the net in the final four minutes .
the convincing victory saw werder bremen progress through the tournament to win the 1993 german cup . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : horst hrubesch was a key player for hamburg in 1982 .
bremen 5-0 hamburg , may 29 , 1993 bremen also secured the bundesliga crown with one game to spare in 1993 thanks to this overwhelming victory .
andreas herzog and wynton rufer both scored as the home crowd celebrated their club 's third title .
bremen ended the season one point ahead of bayern munich , leaving hamburg to finish 11th .
legendary bremen coach otto rehhagel described the victory as a " milestone " for the club . hamburg 5-0 bremen , may 15 , 1982 one of hamburg 's two highest-ever wins against their northern derby rivals came in the closing stages of the 1981/1982 campaign .
a total of 53,400 fans watched horst hrubesch - now germany 's under-21 coach - score a hat-trick as hamburg demolished bremen 's defense to win the bundesliga title at the expense of second-placed fc cologne . author : sam edmonds editor : darren mara send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de hamburg move closer to uefa final after bremen defeat sv hamburg took the advantage on thursday after defeating bremen 1-0 in the first leg of their uefa cup semi-final matches .
hamburg 's coach says their position is good for the second leg , but bremen is not giving up .
-lrb- 01.05.2009 -rrb- german , ukrainian clubs fight for uefa cup honors domestic pride will be at stake in europe when ukrainian and german clubs battle against each other in the semi-finals of the uefa cup in first-leg matches on thursday .
-lrb- 30.04.2009 -rrb- werder bremen beat hamburg in cup semi-final bremen beat hamburg on penalties to reach the cup final .
bremen 's goalie tim wiese was the man of the game as he saved three penalties .
his side will now face leverkusen in the final .
-lrb- 23.04.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live hits in germany pop from the german top 100 listen live dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report bundesliga predictions week ten predictions dw 's experts consulted the spirit world before making their predictions for match day .
scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results at a glance .
dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia moenchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
bremen book a place in the uefa cup final , clinching a win against rivals hamburg -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 26.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de soccer -pipe- 07.05.2009 bremen book a place in the uefa cup final , clinching a win against rivals hamburg großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bremen 's diego scores but will miss the uefa cup final .
werder bremen came from a goal down to win 3-2 away to sv hamburg thursday to book a uefa cup final date in istanbul against ukrainian side shakhtar donetsk . diego , claudio pizarro and frank baumann were the goal-scoring heroes for bremen to advance to their first ever european final on may 20 in istanbul .
bremen went into the clash trailing 1-0 from the first leg but conceded a goal to hosts hamburg in the 13th minute when joris mathijsen powered his way upfield from defence before finding ivica olic who chipped the ball over bremen 's goalkeepr tim wiese .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : hamburgs 's ivica olic , left , scores his side 's first goal past bremen 's goalkeeper tim wiese olic could have doubled hamburg 's lead on 27 minutes but his effort from close range was saved .
within two minutes bremen were level when diego and pizarro combined well before the brazilian slotted the ball past frank rost .
diego nearly netted a second on 37 minutes but his shot from 25 metres hit the crossbar .
however , the 24-year-old was booked two minutes before the break for an off-the-ball row with alex silva , who also saw yellow , meaning the brazilian will miss the final .
" it was a difficult situation i did n't do anything , not to go to the final is very bad for me , " said diego .
peruvian striker pizarro scored on 66 minutes , beating rost at the near post although the hamburg goalkeeper really should have done better .
baumann looked to have put the game beyond hamburg with bremen 's third seven minutes from time and although olic popped up to score his second of the game to make it 3-2 on the night to set up a tense finale , bremen held on to make it to their first uefa cup final .
" we played well , it was tough to come from two goals down , " said pizarro .
" diego played a great match its a pity he 's not in the final but thats football . "
bremen are the first german side to reach a uefa cup final since borussia dortmund reached the final in 2002 only to lose against feyenoord rotterdam .
ruhr valley side schalke 04 were the last german winners back in 1997 .
same procedure ?
thursday 's semi-final fixture is the third in a series of four matches to be played between the two northern german clubs within a 19-day period . the first game went bremen 's way when goalkeeper tim wiese made three saves in a penalty shootout to knock hamburg out of the german cup semi-final on april 22 . the second saw hamburg gain revenge eight days later with its 0-1 victory in bremen .
the fourth and final derby match is a bundesliga fixture scheduled for sunday , may 10 . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : thomas schaaf has coached werder bremen for a decade intense rivalry as the two biggest cities in northern germany , hamburg and bremen have a long history of competing with each other as hanseatic trading powers , regional centers of industry and culture , and sporting contenders . " what 's very special is that they more or less share the same backyard from which they can get their soccer fans , " deutsche welle 's sports head wolfgang van kann says .
" so it 's always a question of who is better , and where the fans will go . " from a historical perspective , it 's difficult to say which club has been more successful .
according to the so-called " eternal table , " which records the performances of all bundesliga clubs since the competition was founded in 1963 , werder bremen and hamburg are ranked second and third respectively .
at the time of writing , they were separated by just six points . " clearly hamburg has the longer tradition and the longer streak of success , " van kann says .
" bremen has only come up in the last one or two decades , but with huge success . " while hamburg has n't won a title since it lifted the german cup in 1987 , bremen won the german double in 2004 and has qualified for the champions league for the past five seasons . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : fans were disgusted when hooligans killed a 16-year-old in 1982 " the clubs have always been very different , " van kann explains .
" for example you can see that hamburg has had several coaches within the past few years , while bremen has only had one coach for the last 10 years . " fan violence one thing the two clubs do have in common is a dedicated fan base .
hamburg boasts almost 55,000 members , while bremen has more than 30,000 .
but violence involving so-called " ultras " and militant fan groups has driven a wedge between the two cities on more than one occasion . the worst incident took place in october 1982 , when hamburg hosted bremen for a second-round german cup match .
despite a large police presence around the main train station and the stadium , hooligans belonging to a group known as the " hamburg lions " attacked visitors with beer cans , stones and fireworks . a 16-year-old bremen fan named adrian maleika was killed after he was hit on the head by a stone .
while most of germany was shocked , a number of hard-line fans were quoted in the press as being indifferent or hungry for revenge . tensions between supporters of the rival clubs threatened to boil over until representatives of more than 200 fan groups met in the town of scheessel , half-way between bremen and hamburg , and signed a " peace deal " banning revenge attacks . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : werder bremen topped the bundesliga in 1993 and 2004 while provocative lyrics sung in stadiums during northern derbies occasionally refer to the incident , most fans have put the conflict behind them , and prefer to remember - or forget - these four landmark matches from the past 30 years : bremen 6-0 hamburg , may 1 , 2004 the most one-sided result between the two clubs was in bremen as the 2003-04 bundesliga season drew to an end .
some 42,000 spectators watched hamburg striker sergej barbarez score an own-goal and trigger an avalanche of bremen goals .
one match later , werder bremen won the championship with a spectacular 3-1 victory over bayern munich . bremen 4-2 hamburg , october 27 , 1993 just over 34,000 fans turned out to watch the fourth round german cup fixture in bremen 's weserstadion .
austrian midfielder andreas herzog gave bremen an early lead , but hamburg managed to score twice after the break before bernd hobsch leveled the scores in the 74th minute .
when hamburg 's andreas sassen was shown a red card , bremen 's frank neubarth and wynton rufer capitalized by both finding the net in the final four minutes .
the convincing victory saw werder bremen progress through the tournament to win the 1993 german cup . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : horst hrubesch was a key player for hamburg in 1982 .
bremen 5-0 hamburg , may 29 , 1993 bremen also secured the bundesliga crown with one game to spare in 1993 thanks to this overwhelming victory .
andreas herzog and wynton rufer both scored as the home crowd celebrated their club 's third title .
bremen ended the season one point ahead of bayern munich , leaving hamburg to finish 11th .
legendary bremen coach otto rehhagel described the victory as a " milestone " for the club . hamburg 5-0 bremen , may 15 , 1982 one of hamburg 's two highest-ever wins against their northern derby rivals came in the closing stages of the 1981/1982 campaign .
a total of 53,400 fans watched horst hrubesch - now germany 's under-21 coach - score a hat-trick as hamburg demolished bremen 's defense to win the bundesliga title at the expense of second-placed fc cologne . author : sam edmonds editor : darren mara send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de hamburg move closer to uefa final after bremen defeat sv hamburg took the advantage on thursday after defeating bremen 1-0 in the first leg of their uefa cup semi-final matches .
hamburg 's coach says their position is good for the second leg , but bremen is not giving up .
-lrb- 01.05.2009 -rrb- german , ukrainian clubs fight for uefa cup honors domestic pride will be at stake in europe when ukrainian and german clubs battle against each other in the semi-finals of the uefa cup in first-leg matches on thursday .
-lrb- 30.04.2009 -rrb- werder bremen beat hamburg in cup semi-final bremen beat hamburg on penalties to reach the cup final .
bremen 's goalie tim wiese was the man of the game as he saved three penalties .
his side will now face leverkusen in the final .
-lrb- 23.04.2009 -rrb- 9800 dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit wirtschaft we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inspired minds listen live dw-radio would you listen ?
the best of german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report referees a new high-tech center in spain hopes to help referees improve their skills .
listen to the report media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
obama wins pledge from afghan , pakistani leaders to confront militants -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de diplomacy -pipe- 07.05.2009 obama wins pledge from afghan , pakistani leaders to confront militants großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : obama warned of more violence in pakistan and afghanistan at the three-way summit president barack obama won a fresh promise from the leaders of pakistan and afghanistan on wednesday to work together to defeat al qaeda , and vowed he would make " every effort " to avoid civilian deaths . afghanistan 's hamid karzai and pakistan 's asif ali zardari came to washington after heavy criticism of their efforts to combat a taliban resurgence in their countries .
after their talks obama said both men " fully appreciate the seriousness of the threat " posed by al qaeda and their allies .
" the road ahead will be difficult .
there will be more violence and there will be setbacks , " obama said , with karzai and zardari at his side in the grand foyer of the white house .
" but let me be clear - the united states has not only made a lasting commitment to defeat al qaeda but also to support the democratically elected sovereign governments of both pakistan and afghanistan .
that commitment will not waiver and that support will be sustained . "
the obama administration has sharply criticized both karzai and zardari in the past , questioning their commitment and capability to tackle the threat from al qaeda and the taliban .
civilian casualties caused by us military operations in both countries , including drone strikes inside pakistan , have infuriated many afghans and pakistanis and made it harder for both countries ' leaders to cooperate with the united states .
military action earlier this week is believed to have caused dozens of civilian deaths with regional lawmakers and the international committee of the red cross reporting that as many as 100 people may have died in an operation in the bala boluk district of farah province in western afghanistan .
" we deeply , deeply regret that loss , " us secretary of state hillary clinton said of the civilian deaths before meeting karzai and zardari .
later she called that meeting " in some ways a breakthrough " and said she was " very optimistic " the process was making a difference .
obama announced a new approach to the fight against al qaeda in both countries in late march , offering more aid but also more than 20,000 extra troops to afghanistan this year .
pakistan 's zardari , who has been under fierce criticism for his response to taliban militants who have made inroads in the swat and buner valleys this year , pleaded for support for his fledgling democracy .
" my democracy needs attention and needs nurturing , " zardari said .
" pakistani democracy will deliver , the terrorists will be defeated by our joint struggle .
me , my friend president karzai and the united states ... will stand shoulder to shoulder with the world to fight this cancer and this threat . "
the pakistan government recently launched a major military offensive following pressure from the us to stop the advance of extremists in the region .
the islamist taliban says the offensive violates a peace deal it made with islamabad , which allowed the introduction of shariah law in the swat valley in exchange for a ceasefire .
on wednesday , pakistani security forces attacked taliban fighters in the swat valley , killing at least 64 of them after the united states called on the government to show its commitment to fighting militancy .
but the growing taliban influence in north-western pakistan has raised international concerns over the stability of the nuclear-armed country .
meanwhile in berlin , pakistani defence minister chaudry ahmad mukhtar has met with his german counterpart franz josef jung and asked for international help .
mukhtar said pakistan did not have the capacity to fight what he described as a " guerrilla war " in the north-west of the country . nrt , nk dpa / reuters / ap send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de obama to up pressure on , offer incentives to pakistan and afghanistan money for security - that 's the deal that us president barack obama is to offer his pakistani and afghan counterparts on wednesday .
a former german ambassador to pakistan talks us through a potentially historic meeting .
-lrb- 05.05.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic pakistani defence minister visits germany us president barack obama unveils a new afghan war strategy 9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
south asia regional cooperation is making little progress in the strategically important region .
listen to the report in depth focus on libya dw-world looks at the turmoil in libya : what it means for tripoli and the rest of the world .
podcast series a berlin designer prompts thought about waste by turning trash , like used teabags , into treasures .
download the report subscribe to the series on itunes past episodes climate change check out deutsche welle 's multimedia coverage of people and projects combating climate change .
the global ideas page learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
obama wins pledge from afghan , pakistani leaders to confront militants -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 01.11.2010 home news germany europe world from tierra del fuego to tijuana asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de diplomacy -pipe- 07.05.2009 obama wins pledge from afghan , pakistani leaders to confront militants großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : obama warned of more violence in pakistan and afghanistan at the three-way summit president barack obama won a fresh promise from the leaders of pakistan and afghanistan on wednesday to work together to defeat al qaeda , and vowed he would make " every effort " to avoid civilian deaths . afghanistan 's hamid karzai and pakistan 's asif ali zardari came to washington after heavy criticism of their efforts to combat a taliban resurgence in their countries .
after their talks obama said both men " fully appreciate the seriousness of the threat " posed by al qaeda and their allies .
" the road ahead will be difficult .
there will be more violence and there will be setbacks , " obama said , with karzai and zardari at his side in the grand foyer of the white house .
" but let me be clear - the united states has not only made a lasting commitment to defeat al qaeda but also to support the democratically elected sovereign governments of both pakistan and afghanistan .
that commitment will not waiver and that support will be sustained . "
the obama administration has sharply criticized both karzai and zardari in the past , questioning their commitment and capability to tackle the threat from al qaeda and the taliban .
civilian casualties caused by us military operations in both countries , including drone strikes inside pakistan , have infuriated many afghans and pakistanis and made it harder for both countries ' leaders to cooperate with the united states .
military action earlier this week is believed to have caused dozens of civilian deaths with regional lawmakers and the international committee of the red cross reporting that as many as 100 people may have died in an operation in the bala boluk district of farah province in western afghanistan .
" we deeply , deeply regret that loss , " us secretary of state hillary clinton said of the civilian deaths before meeting karzai and zardari .
later she called that meeting " in some ways a breakthrough " and said she was " very optimistic " the process was making a difference .
obama announced a new approach to the fight against al qaeda in both countries in late march , offering more aid but also more than 20,000 extra troops to afghanistan this year .
pakistan 's zardari , who has been under fierce criticism for his response to taliban militants who have made inroads in the swat and buner valleys this year , pleaded for support for his fledgling democracy .
" my democracy needs attention and needs nurturing , " zardari said .
" pakistani democracy will deliver , the terrorists will be defeated by our joint struggle .
me , my friend president karzai and the united states ... will stand shoulder to shoulder with the world to fight this cancer and this threat . "
the pakistan government recently launched a major military offensive following pressure from the us to stop the advance of extremists in the region .
the islamist taliban says the offensive violates a peace deal it made with islamabad , which allowed the introduction of shariah law in the swat valley in exchange for a ceasefire .
on wednesday , pakistani security forces attacked taliban fighters in the swat valley , killing at least 64 of them after the united states called on the government to show its commitment to fighting militancy .
but the growing taliban influence in north-western pakistan has raised international concerns over the stability of the nuclear-armed country .
meanwhile in berlin , pakistani defence minister chaudry ahmad mukhtar has met with his german counterpart franz josef jung and asked for international help .
mukhtar said pakistan did not have the capacity to fight what he described as a " guerrilla war " in the north-west of the country . nrt , nk dpa / reuters / ap send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de obama to up pressure on , offer incentives to pakistan and afghanistan money for security - that 's the deal that us president barack obama is to offer his pakistani and afghan counterparts on wednesday .
a former german ambassador to pakistan talks us through a potentially historic meeting .
-lrb- 05.05.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic pakistani defence minister visits germany us president barack obama unveils a new afghan war strategy feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live talking germany we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live concert hour beethovenfest 2010 listen live learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan new web site check out deutsche welle 's new asia page in english .
dw asia online news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's newest media partner latin america take a multimedia journey discover the region and its people © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
obama wins pledge from afghan , pakistani leaders to confront militants -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 22.09.2010 home news germany europe world from tierra del fuego to tijuana asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de diplomacy -pipe- 07.05.2009 obama wins pledge from afghan , pakistani leaders to confront militants großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : obama warned of more violence in pakistan and afghanistan at the three-way summit president barack obama won a fresh promise from the leaders of pakistan and afghanistan on wednesday to work together to defeat al qaeda , and vowed he would make " every effort " to avoid civilian deaths . afghanistan 's hamid karzai and pakistan 's asif ali zardari came to washington after heavy criticism of their efforts to combat a taliban resurgence in their countries .
after their talks obama said both men " fully appreciate the seriousness of the threat " posed by al qaeda and their allies .
" the road ahead will be difficult .
there will be more violence and there will be setbacks , " obama said , with karzai and zardari at his side in the grand foyer of the white house .
" but let me be clear - the united states has not only made a lasting commitment to defeat al qaeda but also to support the democratically elected sovereign governments of both pakistan and afghanistan .
that commitment will not waiver and that support will be sustained . "
the obama administration has sharply criticized both karzai and zardari in the past , questioning their commitment and capability to tackle the threat from al qaeda and the taliban .
civilian casualties caused by us military operations in both countries , including drone strikes inside pakistan , have infuriated many afghans and pakistanis and made it harder for both countries ' leaders to cooperate with the united states .
military action earlier this week is believed to have caused dozens of civilian deaths with regional lawmakers and the international committee of the red cross reporting that as many as 100 people may have died in an operation in the bala boluk district of farah province in western afghanistan .
" we deeply , deeply regret that loss , " us secretary of state hillary clinton said of the civilian deaths before meeting karzai and zardari .
later she called that meeting " in some ways a breakthrough " and said she was " very optimistic " the process was making a difference .
obama announced a new approach to the fight against al qaeda in both countries in late march , offering more aid but also more than 20,000 extra troops to afghanistan this year .
pakistan 's zardari , who has been under fierce criticism for his response to taliban militants who have made inroads in the swat and buner valleys this year , pleaded for support for his fledgling democracy .
" my democracy needs attention and needs nurturing , " zardari said .
" pakistani democracy will deliver , the terrorists will be defeated by our joint struggle .
me , my friend president karzai and the united states ... will stand shoulder to shoulder with the world to fight this cancer and this threat . "
the pakistan government recently launched a major military offensive following pressure from the us to stop the advance of extremists in the region .
the islamist taliban says the offensive violates a peace deal it made with islamabad , which allowed the introduction of shariah law in the swat valley in exchange for a ceasefire .
on wednesday , pakistani security forces attacked taliban fighters in the swat valley , killing at least 64 of them after the united states called on the government to show its commitment to fighting militancy .
but the growing taliban influence in north-western pakistan has raised international concerns over the stability of the nuclear-armed country .
meanwhile in berlin , pakistani defence minister chaudry ahmad mukhtar has met with his german counterpart franz josef jung and asked for international help .
mukhtar said pakistan did not have the capacity to fight what he described as a " guerrilla war " in the north-west of the country . nrt , nk dpa / reuters / ap send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de obama to up pressure on , offer incentives to pakistan and afghanistan money for security - that 's the deal that us president barack obama is to offer his pakistani and afghan counterparts on wednesday .
a former german ambassador to pakistan talks us through a potentially historic meeting .
-lrb- 05.05.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic pakistani defence minister visits germany us president barack obama unveils a new afghan war strategy feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live spectrum listen live nuclear weapons israel is under pressure from neighbors to reveal more about its own nuclear weapons program listen to the report learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan new web site check out deutsche welle 's new asia page in english .
dw asia online news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's newest media partner latin america take a multimedia journey discover the region and its people © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
obama wins pledge from afghan , pakistani leaders to confront militants -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 03.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de diplomacy -pipe- 07.05.2009 obama wins pledge from afghan , pakistani leaders to confront militants großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : obama warned of more violence in pakistan and afghanistan at the three-way summit president barack obama won a fresh promise from the leaders of pakistan and afghanistan on wednesday to work together to defeat al qaeda , and vowed he would make " every effort " to avoid civilian deaths . afghanistan 's hamid karzai and pakistan 's asif ali zardari came to washington after heavy criticism of their efforts to combat a taliban resurgence in their countries .
after their talks obama said both men " fully appreciate the seriousness of the threat " posed by al qaeda and their allies .
" the road ahead will be difficult .
there will be more violence and there will be setbacks , " obama said , with karzai and zardari at his side in the grand foyer of the white house .
" but let me be clear - the united states has not only made a lasting commitment to defeat al qaeda but also to support the democratically elected sovereign governments of both pakistan and afghanistan .
that commitment will not waiver and that support will be sustained . "
the obama administration has sharply criticized both karzai and zardari in the past , questioning their commitment and capability to tackle the threat from al qaeda and the taliban .
civilian casualties caused by us military operations in both countries , including drone strikes inside pakistan , have infuriated many afghans and pakistanis and made it harder for both countries ' leaders to cooperate with the united states .
military action earlier this week is believed to have caused dozens of civilian deaths with regional lawmakers and the international committee of the red cross reporting that as many as 100 people may have died in an operation in the bala boluk district of farah province in western afghanistan .
" we deeply , deeply regret that loss , " us secretary of state hillary clinton said of the civilian deaths before meeting karzai and zardari .
later she called that meeting " in some ways a breakthrough " and said she was " very optimistic " the process was making a difference .
obama announced a new approach to the fight against al qaeda in both countries in late march , offering more aid but also more than 20,000 extra troops to afghanistan this year .
pakistan 's zardari , who has been under fierce criticism for his response to taliban militants who have made inroads in the swat and buner valleys this year , pleaded for support for his fledgling democracy .
" my democracy needs attention and needs nurturing , " zardari said .
" pakistani democracy will deliver , the terrorists will be defeated by our joint struggle .
me , my friend president karzai and the united states ... will stand shoulder to shoulder with the world to fight this cancer and this threat . "
the pakistan government recently launched a major military offensive following pressure from the us to stop the advance of extremists in the region .
the islamist taliban says the offensive violates a peace deal it made with islamabad , which allowed the introduction of shariah law in the swat valley in exchange for a ceasefire .
on wednesday , pakistani security forces attacked taliban fighters in the swat valley , killing at least 64 of them after the united states called on the government to show its commitment to fighting militancy .
but the growing taliban influence in north-western pakistan has raised international concerns over the stability of the nuclear-armed country .
meanwhile in berlin , pakistani defence minister chaudry ahmad mukhtar has met with his german counterpart franz josef jung and asked for international help .
mukhtar said pakistan did not have the capacity to fight what he described as a " guerrilla war " in the north-west of the country . nrt , nk dpa / reuters / ap send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de obama to up pressure on , offer incentives to pakistan and afghanistan money for security - that 's the deal that us president barack obama is to offer his pakistani and afghan counterparts on wednesday .
a former german ambassador to pakistan talks us through a potentially historic meeting .
-lrb- 05.05.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic pakistani defence minister visits germany us president barack obama unveils a new afghan war strategy feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
caucasus violence explodes in the republic of dagestan amid militants ' efforts to create a muslim nation .
listen to the report .
bundles of booty where do dictators stash their cash ?
asset trackers use ' ladders ' to follow the money .
listen to the report .
transatlantic voices germany 's gremlins berlin needs an overdue debate on what the responsibility to protect means for germany and europe .
international conference media representatives around the world gather in bonn to discuss human rights .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
obama wins pledge from afghan , pakistani leaders to confront militants -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 24.01.2011 home news germany europe world from tierra del fuego to tijuana asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de diplomacy -pipe- 07.05.2009 obama wins pledge from afghan , pakistani leaders to confront militants großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : obama warned of more violence in pakistan and afghanistan at the three-way summit president barack obama won a fresh promise from the leaders of pakistan and afghanistan on wednesday to work together to defeat al qaeda , and vowed he would make " every effort " to avoid civilian deaths . afghanistan 's hamid karzai and pakistan 's asif ali zardari came to washington after heavy criticism of their efforts to combat a taliban resurgence in their countries .
after their talks obama said both men " fully appreciate the seriousness of the threat " posed by al qaeda and their allies .
" the road ahead will be difficult .
there will be more violence and there will be setbacks , " obama said , with karzai and zardari at his side in the grand foyer of the white house .
" but let me be clear - the united states has not only made a lasting commitment to defeat al qaeda but also to support the democratically elected sovereign governments of both pakistan and afghanistan .
that commitment will not waiver and that support will be sustained . "
the obama administration has sharply criticized both karzai and zardari in the past , questioning their commitment and capability to tackle the threat from al qaeda and the taliban .
civilian casualties caused by us military operations in both countries , including drone strikes inside pakistan , have infuriated many afghans and pakistanis and made it harder for both countries ' leaders to cooperate with the united states .
military action earlier this week is believed to have caused dozens of civilian deaths with regional lawmakers and the international committee of the red cross reporting that as many as 100 people may have died in an operation in the bala boluk district of farah province in western afghanistan .
" we deeply , deeply regret that loss , " us secretary of state hillary clinton said of the civilian deaths before meeting karzai and zardari .
later she called that meeting " in some ways a breakthrough " and said she was " very optimistic " the process was making a difference .
obama announced a new approach to the fight against al qaeda in both countries in late march , offering more aid but also more than 20,000 extra troops to afghanistan this year .
pakistan 's zardari , who has been under fierce criticism for his response to taliban militants who have made inroads in the swat and buner valleys this year , pleaded for support for his fledgling democracy .
" my democracy needs attention and needs nurturing , " zardari said .
" pakistani democracy will deliver , the terrorists will be defeated by our joint struggle .
me , my friend president karzai and the united states ... will stand shoulder to shoulder with the world to fight this cancer and this threat . "
the pakistan government recently launched a major military offensive following pressure from the us to stop the advance of extremists in the region .
the islamist taliban says the offensive violates a peace deal it made with islamabad , which allowed the introduction of shariah law in the swat valley in exchange for a ceasefire .
on wednesday , pakistani security forces attacked taliban fighters in the swat valley , killing at least 64 of them after the united states called on the government to show its commitment to fighting militancy .
but the growing taliban influence in north-western pakistan has raised international concerns over the stability of the nuclear-armed country .
meanwhile in berlin , pakistani defence minister chaudry ahmad mukhtar has met with his german counterpart franz josef jung and asked for international help .
mukhtar said pakistan did not have the capacity to fight what he described as a " guerrilla war " in the north-west of the country . nrt , nk dpa / reuters / ap send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de obama to up pressure on , offer incentives to pakistan and afghanistan money for security - that 's the deal that us president barack obama is to offer his pakistani and afghan counterparts on wednesday .
a former german ambassador to pakistan talks us through a potentially historic meeting .
-lrb- 05.05.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic pakistani defence minister visits germany us president barack obama unveils a new afghan war strategy feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan latin america take a multimedia journey discover the region and its people news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's newest media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
obama wins pledge from afghan , pakistani leaders to confront militants -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 07.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de diplomacy -pipe- 07.05.2009 obama wins pledge from afghan , pakistani leaders to confront militants großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : obama warned of more violence in pakistan and afghanistan at the three-way summit president barack obama won a fresh promise from the leaders of pakistan and afghanistan on wednesday to work together to defeat al qaeda , and vowed he would make " every effort " to avoid civilian deaths . afghanistan 's hamid karzai and pakistan 's asif ali zardari came to washington after heavy criticism of their efforts to combat a taliban resurgence in their countries .
after their talks obama said both men " fully appreciate the seriousness of the threat " posed by al qaeda and their allies .
" the road ahead will be difficult .
there will be more violence and there will be setbacks , " obama said , with karzai and zardari at his side in the grand foyer of the white house .
" but let me be clear - the united states has not only made a lasting commitment to defeat al qaeda but also to support the democratically elected sovereign governments of both pakistan and afghanistan .
that commitment will not waiver and that support will be sustained . "
the obama administration has sharply criticized both karzai and zardari in the past , questioning their commitment and capability to tackle the threat from al qaeda and the taliban .
civilian casualties caused by us military operations in both countries , including drone strikes inside pakistan , have infuriated many afghans and pakistanis and made it harder for both countries ' leaders to cooperate with the united states .
military action earlier this week is believed to have caused dozens of civilian deaths with regional lawmakers and the international committee of the red cross reporting that as many as 100 people may have died in an operation in the bala boluk district of farah province in western afghanistan .
" we deeply , deeply regret that loss , " us secretary of state hillary clinton said of the civilian deaths before meeting karzai and zardari .
later she called that meeting " in some ways a breakthrough " and said she was " very optimistic " the process was making a difference .
obama announced a new approach to the fight against al qaeda in both countries in late march , offering more aid but also more than 20,000 extra troops to afghanistan this year .
pakistan 's zardari , who has been under fierce criticism for his response to taliban militants who have made inroads in the swat and buner valleys this year , pleaded for support for his fledgling democracy .
" my democracy needs attention and needs nurturing , " zardari said .
" pakistani democracy will deliver , the terrorists will be defeated by our joint struggle .
me , my friend president karzai and the united states ... will stand shoulder to shoulder with the world to fight this cancer and this threat . "
the pakistan government recently launched a major military offensive following pressure from the us to stop the advance of extremists in the region .
the islamist taliban says the offensive violates a peace deal it made with islamabad , which allowed the introduction of shariah law in the swat valley in exchange for a ceasefire .
on wednesday , pakistani security forces attacked taliban fighters in the swat valley , killing at least 64 of them after the united states called on the government to show its commitment to fighting militancy .
but the growing taliban influence in north-western pakistan has raised international concerns over the stability of the nuclear-armed country .
meanwhile in berlin , pakistani defence minister chaudry ahmad mukhtar has met with his german counterpart franz josef jung and asked for international help .
mukhtar said pakistan did not have the capacity to fight what he described as a " guerrilla war " in the north-west of the country . nrt , nk dpa / reuters / ap send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de obama to up pressure on , offer incentives to pakistan and afghanistan money for security - that 's the deal that us president barack obama is to offer his pakistani and afghan counterparts on wednesday .
a former german ambassador to pakistan talks us through a potentially historic meeting .
-lrb- 05.05.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic pakistani defence minister visits germany us president barack obama unveils a new afghan war strategy 9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
focus on syria rattling a regime in-depth coverage of the violent protests against the syrian government .
focus on libya libya 's uprising dw-world looks at the turmoil in libya : what it means for tripoli and the rest of the world .
podcast series a former street child in indonesia gives back to kids in need .
listen to the report subscribe to the series on itunes past episodes international conference media representatives around the world gather in bonn to discuss human rights .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
prague summit to launch " eastern partnership " -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 01.11.2010 home news germany europe world from tierra del fuego to tijuana asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de european ties -pipe- 07.05.2009 prague summit to launch " eastern partnership " großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the " eastern partnership " is the brain child of poland and sweden good neighborhood policy is normally on the agenda of the eu rotating presidency .
but the nation at the helm determines which neighbors take priority .
that sweden takes over soon is good news for the eu 's eastern flank . when france was in charge during the second half of 2008 , president nicolas sarkozy made relations with his country 's mediterranean rim neighbors the cornerstone of his six month eu presidency .
membership in sarkozy 's " club med " was based on sharing a common mediterranean coastline , so morocco , turkey , israel and syria met the geographical criteria .
the idea was to provide an eu-mediterranean forum for tackling regional issues such as illegal boat migration from africa , combating terrorism and cleaning up the polluted sea .
the mediterranean union 's inaugural summit last july represented a milestone in bringing the heads of state of israel and its middle east adversaries together in paris , but the french eu initiative had already lost steam by the start of the czech republic 's presidency in january 2009 .
now with less than two months left of prague 's beleaguered eu presidency , the 27 nation bloc 's priorities have shifted northwards and eastwards geographically .
czech prime minister mirek topolanek was ousted last month and will be replaced on may 8 by an interim government .
topolanek 's successor jan fischer takes over the day after the eu launches its " eastern partnership " -lrb- ep -rrb- with six post-soviet states- armenia , azerbaijan , belarus , georgia , moldova and ukraine- at a summit in prague on may 7 .
eu wants stable eastern neighbors bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : eu commission president jose manuel barroso and his commissioners do n't want a new " iron curtain " eu officials say that the goal of the initiative is to help stabilize and modernize the states created from the break-up of the former soviet union by bringing in free markets and pro-democracy reforms .
the russia-georgia war last august over the breakaway province of south ossetia further underscored the eu 's need to " engage more deeply with its eastern neighbors to stabilize the region , " says sabine fischer , a russia and cis expert at the eu institute for security studies -lrb- euiss -rrb- in paris . then there is belarus , formerly called belorussia or white russia , which the eu has long regarded as the black sheep of the post-soviet cis states .
its president alexander lukashenko , who earned the reputation of being " europe 's last dictator " for his government 's dubious human rights record , had even been placed under an eu travel ban , which was lifted last october .
but now that lukaschenko has said he wants to normalize " difficult " relations with the eu , belarus has been invited to participate in the prague summit on a technical level .
however lukaschenko himself will not attend the summit sending instead his deputy vladimir semachko .
russia makes some noise bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : russian foreign minister sergey lavrov speaks out at last month 's annual brussels forum meeting in brussels since belarus is one of the kremlin 's closest allies , russia foreign minister sergei lavrov expressed his dismay over the eastern partnership at a meeting with eu diplomats in luxembourg on april 28 , saying that " any processes leading to developments within the eu … should ensure no overlap in the post-soviet area . " although moscow 's political leaders see an encroachment on their former " sphere of influence " , their bark is louder than their bite , according to russia analysts .
" russia 's political leadership does not really feel threatened by the eu 's rapprochement with the post-soviet states , " said fischer .
" its leaders are more relaxed with the eu , as opposed to nato , " she added .
stefan meister of the german council on foreign relations -lrb- dgap -rrb- who sees the eastern partnership as a regional grouping similar to the mediterranean union , thinks that lavrov might have felt slighted by being left out of the new initiative .
" but he also understands that this can be a typical eu initiative with a lot of talk , but maybe not much happening , " he said .
extension of existing eu structure the eastern partnership , which would be embedded in an existing structure called the european neighbourhood policy -lrb- enp -rrb- , emerged last year as the brainchild of poland and sweden .
enp was created in 2004 when the eu expanded eastwards to include the former soviet satellite states in the bloc , whose membership jumped from 15 to 25 .
romania and bulgaria later joined the eu in 2007 .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : south ossetian separatist fighters celebrate russian recognition of the breakaway georgian territories of south ossetia and abkhazia its initial objective was to minimize the impact of a new iron curtain between the enlarged eu and the neighboring post-soviet states even further east , by offering a privileged partnership based on a commitment to democratic values and market principles .
the eastern partnership builds up a stronger regional dimension that goes further than the enp , says oksana antonenko , a senior russia analyst at the international institute for strategic studies in london .
enp offers bilateral relations with all countries that border the entire eu by land and sea , including the mediterranean union countries , whereas the ep is a multilateral agreement involving only six countries , she explained .
" the ep opens the door to potentially deeper multi-speed integration with the eu on matters such as visa-free travel or free trade , " said antonenko , who explained that member states could keep progressing to a higher level of cooperation with the eu " a la carte " on a specific issue .
not a stepping stone to join the eu the partnership offers carrots to encourage political and economic reforms , but it is not a stepping stone to eventual eu membership , says dgap 's meister , who characterizes the ep as an alternative to joining the eu .
" it brings the six -lrb- cis -rrb- states closer to the value system of the eu and offers them something like a customs union , but maybe not what they really want - the perspective of eu membership down the road , " he said .
ukraine is eager to join the eu club , but the bloc is suffering from enlargement fatigue and the lisbon treaty , that is supposed to streamline decision-making , still hangs in the balance . one of the lisbon treaty 's goals is to create a more permanent eu presidency filled by a high profile politician for a period of two-and-a-half years to replace the current six month rotating system . when the czech term ends at the end of june , the swedes will take over , a stroke of luck for the eastern partnership , according to fischer .
" the swedes are going to put a strong emphasis on this -lrb- northeastern -rrb- region , " she said .
" after all , the ep was their initiative . " author : diana fong editor : susan houlton send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live projekt zukunft we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live in-box feedback from around the world listen live learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan new web site check out deutsche welle 's new asia page in english .
dw asia online news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's newest media partner latin america take a multimedia journey discover the region and its people © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
prague summit to launch " eastern partnership " -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 22.09.2010 home news germany europe world from tierra del fuego to tijuana asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de european ties -pipe- 07.05.2009 prague summit to launch " eastern partnership " großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the " eastern partnership " is the brain child of poland and sweden good neighborhood policy is normally on the agenda of the eu rotating presidency .
but the nation at the helm determines which neighbors take priority .
that sweden takes over soon is good news for the eu 's eastern flank . when france was in charge during the second half of 2008 , president nicolas sarkozy made relations with his country 's mediterranean rim neighbors the cornerstone of his six month eu presidency .
membership in sarkozy 's " club med " was based on sharing a common mediterranean coastline , so morocco , turkey , israel and syria met the geographical criteria .
the idea was to provide an eu-mediterranean forum for tackling regional issues such as illegal boat migration from africa , combating terrorism and cleaning up the polluted sea .
the mediterranean union 's inaugural summit last july represented a milestone in bringing the heads of state of israel and its middle east adversaries together in paris , but the french eu initiative had already lost steam by the start of the czech republic 's presidency in january 2009 .
now with less than two months left of prague 's beleaguered eu presidency , the 27 nation bloc 's priorities have shifted northwards and eastwards geographically .
czech prime minister mirek topolanek was ousted last month and will be replaced on may 8 by an interim government .
topolanek 's successor jan fischer takes over the day after the eu launches its " eastern partnership " -lrb- ep -rrb- with six post-soviet states- armenia , azerbaijan , belarus , georgia , moldova and ukraine- at a summit in prague on may 7 .
eu wants stable eastern neighbors bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : eu commission president jose manuel barroso and his commissioners do n't want a new " iron curtain " eu officials say that the goal of the initiative is to help stabilize and modernize the states created from the break-up of the former soviet union by bringing in free markets and pro-democracy reforms .
the russia-georgia war last august over the breakaway province of south ossetia further underscored the eu 's need to " engage more deeply with its eastern neighbors to stabilize the region , " says sabine fischer , a russia and cis expert at the eu institute for security studies -lrb- euiss -rrb- in paris . then there is belarus , formerly called belorussia or white russia , which the eu has long regarded as the black sheep of the post-soviet cis states .
its president alexander lukashenko , who earned the reputation of being " europe 's last dictator " for his government 's dubious human rights record , had even been placed under an eu travel ban , which was lifted last october .
but now that lukaschenko has said he wants to normalize " difficult " relations with the eu , belarus has been invited to participate in the prague summit on a technical level .
however lukaschenko himself will not attend the summit sending instead his deputy vladimir semachko .
russia makes some noise bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : russian foreign minister sergey lavrov speaks out at last month 's annual brussels forum meeting in brussels since belarus is one of the kremlin 's closest allies , russia foreign minister sergei lavrov expressed his dismay over the eastern partnership at a meeting with eu diplomats in luxembourg on april 28 , saying that " any processes leading to developments within the eu … should ensure no overlap in the post-soviet area . " although moscow 's political leaders see an encroachment on their former " sphere of influence " , their bark is louder than their bite , according to russia analysts .
" russia 's political leadership does not really feel threatened by the eu 's rapprochement with the post-soviet states , " said fischer .
" its leaders are more relaxed with the eu , as opposed to nato , " she added .
stefan meister of the german council on foreign relations -lrb- dgap -rrb- who sees the eastern partnership as a regional grouping similar to the mediterranean union , thinks that lavrov might have felt slighted by being left out of the new initiative .
" but he also understands that this can be a typical eu initiative with a lot of talk , but maybe not much happening , " he said .
extension of existing eu structure the eastern partnership , which would be embedded in an existing structure called the european neighbourhood policy -lrb- enp -rrb- , emerged last year as the brainchild of poland and sweden .
enp was created in 2004 when the eu expanded eastwards to include the former soviet satellite states in the bloc , whose membership jumped from 15 to 25 .
romania and bulgaria later joined the eu in 2007 .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : south ossetian separatist fighters celebrate russian recognition of the breakaway georgian territories of south ossetia and abkhazia its initial objective was to minimize the impact of a new iron curtain between the enlarged eu and the neighboring post-soviet states even further east , by offering a privileged partnership based on a commitment to democratic values and market principles .
the eastern partnership builds up a stronger regional dimension that goes further than the enp , says oksana antonenko , a senior russia analyst at the international institute for strategic studies in london .
enp offers bilateral relations with all countries that border the entire eu by land and sea , including the mediterranean union countries , whereas the ep is a multilateral agreement involving only six countries , she explained .
" the ep opens the door to potentially deeper multi-speed integration with the eu on matters such as visa-free travel or free trade , " said antonenko , who explained that member states could keep progressing to a higher level of cooperation with the eu " a la carte " on a specific issue .
not a stepping stone to join the eu the partnership offers carrots to encourage political and economic reforms , but it is not a stepping stone to eventual eu membership , says dgap 's meister , who characterizes the ep as an alternative to joining the eu .
" it brings the six -lrb- cis -rrb- states closer to the value system of the eu and offers them something like a customs union , but maybe not what they really want - the perspective of eu membership down the road , " he said .
ukraine is eager to join the eu club , but the bloc is suffering from enlargement fatigue and the lisbon treaty , that is supposed to streamline decision-making , still hangs in the balance . one of the lisbon treaty 's goals is to create a more permanent eu presidency filled by a high profile politician for a period of two-and-a-half years to replace the current six month rotating system . when the czech term ends at the end of june , the swedes will take over , a stroke of luck for the eastern partnership , according to fischer .
" the swedes are going to put a strong emphasis on this -lrb- northeastern -rrb- region , " she said .
" after all , the ep was their initiative . " author : diana fong editor : susan houlton send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live nuclear weapons israel is under pressure from neighbors to reveal more about its own nuclear weapons program listen to the report learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan new web site check out deutsche welle 's new asia page in english .
dw asia online news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's newest media partner latin america take a multimedia journey discover the region and its people © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
prague summit to launch " eastern partnership " -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 03.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de european ties -pipe- 07.05.2009 prague summit to launch " eastern partnership " großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the " eastern partnership " is the brain child of poland and sweden good neighborhood policy is normally on the agenda of the eu rotating presidency .
but the nation at the helm determines which neighbors take priority .
that sweden takes over soon is good news for the eu 's eastern flank . when france was in charge during the second half of 2008 , president nicolas sarkozy made relations with his country 's mediterranean rim neighbors the cornerstone of his six month eu presidency .
membership in sarkozy 's " club med " was based on sharing a common mediterranean coastline , so morocco , turkey , israel and syria met the geographical criteria .
the idea was to provide an eu-mediterranean forum for tackling regional issues such as illegal boat migration from africa , combating terrorism and cleaning up the polluted sea .
the mediterranean union 's inaugural summit last july represented a milestone in bringing the heads of state of israel and its middle east adversaries together in paris , but the french eu initiative had already lost steam by the start of the czech republic 's presidency in january 2009 .
now with less than two months left of prague 's beleaguered eu presidency , the 27 nation bloc 's priorities have shifted northwards and eastwards geographically .
czech prime minister mirek topolanek was ousted last month and will be replaced on may 8 by an interim government .
topolanek 's successor jan fischer takes over the day after the eu launches its " eastern partnership " -lrb- ep -rrb- with six post-soviet states- armenia , azerbaijan , belarus , georgia , moldova and ukraine- at a summit in prague on may 7 .
eu wants stable eastern neighbors bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : eu commission president jose manuel barroso and his commissioners do n't want a new " iron curtain " eu officials say that the goal of the initiative is to help stabilize and modernize the states created from the break-up of the former soviet union by bringing in free markets and pro-democracy reforms .
the russia-georgia war last august over the breakaway province of south ossetia further underscored the eu 's need to " engage more deeply with its eastern neighbors to stabilize the region , " says sabine fischer , a russia and cis expert at the eu institute for security studies -lrb- euiss -rrb- in paris . then there is belarus , formerly called belorussia or white russia , which the eu has long regarded as the black sheep of the post-soviet cis states .
its president alexander lukashenko , who earned the reputation of being " europe 's last dictator " for his government 's dubious human rights record , had even been placed under an eu travel ban , which was lifted last october .
but now that lukaschenko has said he wants to normalize " difficult " relations with the eu , belarus has been invited to participate in the prague summit on a technical level .
however lukaschenko himself will not attend the summit sending instead his deputy vladimir semachko .
russia makes some noise bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : russian foreign minister sergey lavrov speaks out at last month 's annual brussels forum meeting in brussels since belarus is one of the kremlin 's closest allies , russia foreign minister sergei lavrov expressed his dismay over the eastern partnership at a meeting with eu diplomats in luxembourg on april 28 , saying that " any processes leading to developments within the eu … should ensure no overlap in the post-soviet area . " although moscow 's political leaders see an encroachment on their former " sphere of influence " , their bark is louder than their bite , according to russia analysts .
" russia 's political leadership does not really feel threatened by the eu 's rapprochement with the post-soviet states , " said fischer .
" its leaders are more relaxed with the eu , as opposed to nato , " she added .
stefan meister of the german council on foreign relations -lrb- dgap -rrb- who sees the eastern partnership as a regional grouping similar to the mediterranean union , thinks that lavrov might have felt slighted by being left out of the new initiative .
" but he also understands that this can be a typical eu initiative with a lot of talk , but maybe not much happening , " he said .
extension of existing eu structure the eastern partnership , which would be embedded in an existing structure called the european neighbourhood policy -lrb- enp -rrb- , emerged last year as the brainchild of poland and sweden .
enp was created in 2004 when the eu expanded eastwards to include the former soviet satellite states in the bloc , whose membership jumped from 15 to 25 .
romania and bulgaria later joined the eu in 2007 .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : south ossetian separatist fighters celebrate russian recognition of the breakaway georgian territories of south ossetia and abkhazia its initial objective was to minimize the impact of a new iron curtain between the enlarged eu and the neighboring post-soviet states even further east , by offering a privileged partnership based on a commitment to democratic values and market principles .
the eastern partnership builds up a stronger regional dimension that goes further than the enp , says oksana antonenko , a senior russia analyst at the international institute for strategic studies in london .
enp offers bilateral relations with all countries that border the entire eu by land and sea , including the mediterranean union countries , whereas the ep is a multilateral agreement involving only six countries , she explained .
" the ep opens the door to potentially deeper multi-speed integration with the eu on matters such as visa-free travel or free trade , " said antonenko , who explained that member states could keep progressing to a higher level of cooperation with the eu " a la carte " on a specific issue .
not a stepping stone to join the eu the partnership offers carrots to encourage political and economic reforms , but it is not a stepping stone to eventual eu membership , says dgap 's meister , who characterizes the ep as an alternative to joining the eu .
" it brings the six -lrb- cis -rrb- states closer to the value system of the eu and offers them something like a customs union , but maybe not what they really want - the perspective of eu membership down the road , " he said .
ukraine is eager to join the eu club , but the bloc is suffering from enlargement fatigue and the lisbon treaty , that is supposed to streamline decision-making , still hangs in the balance . one of the lisbon treaty 's goals is to create a more permanent eu presidency filled by a high profile politician for a period of two-and-a-half years to replace the current six month rotating system . when the czech term ends at the end of june , the swedes will take over , a stroke of luck for the eastern partnership , according to fischer .
" the swedes are going to put a strong emphasis on this -lrb- northeastern -rrb- region , " she said .
" after all , the ep was their initiative . " author : diana fong editor : susan houlton send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
caucasus violence explodes in the republic of dagestan amid militants ' efforts to create a muslim nation .
listen to the report .
bundles of booty where do dictators stash their cash ?
asset trackers use ' ladders ' to follow the money .
listen to the report .
transatlantic voices germany 's gremlins berlin needs an overdue debate on what the responsibility to protect means for germany and europe .
international conference media representatives around the world gather in bonn to discuss human rights .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
prague summit to launch " eastern partnership " -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 24.01.2011 home news germany europe world from tierra del fuego to tijuana asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de european ties -pipe- 07.05.2009 prague summit to launch " eastern partnership " großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the " eastern partnership " is the brain child of poland and sweden good neighborhood policy is normally on the agenda of the eu rotating presidency .
but the nation at the helm determines which neighbors take priority .
that sweden takes over soon is good news for the eu 's eastern flank . when france was in charge during the second half of 2008 , president nicolas sarkozy made relations with his country 's mediterranean rim neighbors the cornerstone of his six month eu presidency .
membership in sarkozy 's " club med " was based on sharing a common mediterranean coastline , so morocco , turkey , israel and syria met the geographical criteria .
the idea was to provide an eu-mediterranean forum for tackling regional issues such as illegal boat migration from africa , combating terrorism and cleaning up the polluted sea .
the mediterranean union 's inaugural summit last july represented a milestone in bringing the heads of state of israel and its middle east adversaries together in paris , but the french eu initiative had already lost steam by the start of the czech republic 's presidency in january 2009 .
now with less than two months left of prague 's beleaguered eu presidency , the 27 nation bloc 's priorities have shifted northwards and eastwards geographically .
czech prime minister mirek topolanek was ousted last month and will be replaced on may 8 by an interim government .
topolanek 's successor jan fischer takes over the day after the eu launches its " eastern partnership " -lrb- ep -rrb- with six post-soviet states- armenia , azerbaijan , belarus , georgia , moldova and ukraine- at a summit in prague on may 7 .
eu wants stable eastern neighbors bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : eu commission president jose manuel barroso and his commissioners do n't want a new " iron curtain " eu officials say that the goal of the initiative is to help stabilize and modernize the states created from the break-up of the former soviet union by bringing in free markets and pro-democracy reforms .
the russia-georgia war last august over the breakaway province of south ossetia further underscored the eu 's need to " engage more deeply with its eastern neighbors to stabilize the region , " says sabine fischer , a russia and cis expert at the eu institute for security studies -lrb- euiss -rrb- in paris . then there is belarus , formerly called belorussia or white russia , which the eu has long regarded as the black sheep of the post-soviet cis states .
its president alexander lukashenko , who earned the reputation of being " europe 's last dictator " for his government 's dubious human rights record , had even been placed under an eu travel ban , which was lifted last october .
but now that lukaschenko has said he wants to normalize " difficult " relations with the eu , belarus has been invited to participate in the prague summit on a technical level .
however lukaschenko himself will not attend the summit sending instead his deputy vladimir semachko .
russia makes some noise bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : russian foreign minister sergey lavrov speaks out at last month 's annual brussels forum meeting in brussels since belarus is one of the kremlin 's closest allies , russia foreign minister sergei lavrov expressed his dismay over the eastern partnership at a meeting with eu diplomats in luxembourg on april 28 , saying that " any processes leading to developments within the eu … should ensure no overlap in the post-soviet area . " although moscow 's political leaders see an encroachment on their former " sphere of influence " , their bark is louder than their bite , according to russia analysts .
" russia 's political leadership does not really feel threatened by the eu 's rapprochement with the post-soviet states , " said fischer .
" its leaders are more relaxed with the eu , as opposed to nato , " she added .
stefan meister of the german council on foreign relations -lrb- dgap -rrb- who sees the eastern partnership as a regional grouping similar to the mediterranean union , thinks that lavrov might have felt slighted by being left out of the new initiative .
" but he also understands that this can be a typical eu initiative with a lot of talk , but maybe not much happening , " he said .
extension of existing eu structure the eastern partnership , which would be embedded in an existing structure called the european neighbourhood policy -lrb- enp -rrb- , emerged last year as the brainchild of poland and sweden .
enp was created in 2004 when the eu expanded eastwards to include the former soviet satellite states in the bloc , whose membership jumped from 15 to 25 .
romania and bulgaria later joined the eu in 2007 .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : south ossetian separatist fighters celebrate russian recognition of the breakaway georgian territories of south ossetia and abkhazia its initial objective was to minimize the impact of a new iron curtain between the enlarged eu and the neighboring post-soviet states even further east , by offering a privileged partnership based on a commitment to democratic values and market principles .
the eastern partnership builds up a stronger regional dimension that goes further than the enp , says oksana antonenko , a senior russia analyst at the international institute for strategic studies in london .
enp offers bilateral relations with all countries that border the entire eu by land and sea , including the mediterranean union countries , whereas the ep is a multilateral agreement involving only six countries , she explained .
" the ep opens the door to potentially deeper multi-speed integration with the eu on matters such as visa-free travel or free trade , " said antonenko , who explained that member states could keep progressing to a higher level of cooperation with the eu " a la carte " on a specific issue .
not a stepping stone to join the eu the partnership offers carrots to encourage political and economic reforms , but it is not a stepping stone to eventual eu membership , says dgap 's meister , who characterizes the ep as an alternative to joining the eu .
" it brings the six -lrb- cis -rrb- states closer to the value system of the eu and offers them something like a customs union , but maybe not what they really want - the perspective of eu membership down the road , " he said .
ukraine is eager to join the eu club , but the bloc is suffering from enlargement fatigue and the lisbon treaty , that is supposed to streamline decision-making , still hangs in the balance . one of the lisbon treaty 's goals is to create a more permanent eu presidency filled by a high profile politician for a period of two-and-a-half years to replace the current six month rotating system . when the czech term ends at the end of june , the swedes will take over , a stroke of luck for the eastern partnership , according to fischer .
" the swedes are going to put a strong emphasis on this -lrb- northeastern -rrb- region , " she said .
" after all , the ep was their initiative . " author : diana fong editor : susan houlton send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan latin america take a multimedia journey discover the region and its people news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's newest media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
prague summit to launch " eastern partnership " -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 07.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de european ties -pipe- 07.05.2009 prague summit to launch " eastern partnership " großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the " eastern partnership " is the brain child of poland and sweden good neighborhood policy is normally on the agenda of the eu rotating presidency .
but the nation at the helm determines which neighbors take priority .
that sweden takes over soon is good news for the eu 's eastern flank . when france was in charge during the second half of 2008 , president nicolas sarkozy made relations with his country 's mediterranean rim neighbors the cornerstone of his six month eu presidency .
membership in sarkozy 's " club med " was based on sharing a common mediterranean coastline , so morocco , turkey , israel and syria met the geographical criteria .
the idea was to provide an eu-mediterranean forum for tackling regional issues such as illegal boat migration from africa , combating terrorism and cleaning up the polluted sea .
the mediterranean union 's inaugural summit last july represented a milestone in bringing the heads of state of israel and its middle east adversaries together in paris , but the french eu initiative had already lost steam by the start of the czech republic 's presidency in january 2009 .
now with less than two months left of prague 's beleaguered eu presidency , the 27 nation bloc 's priorities have shifted northwards and eastwards geographically .
czech prime minister mirek topolanek was ousted last month and will be replaced on may 8 by an interim government .
topolanek 's successor jan fischer takes over the day after the eu launches its " eastern partnership " -lrb- ep -rrb- with six post-soviet states- armenia , azerbaijan , belarus , georgia , moldova and ukraine- at a summit in prague on may 7 .
eu wants stable eastern neighbors bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : eu commission president jose manuel barroso and his commissioners do n't want a new " iron curtain " eu officials say that the goal of the initiative is to help stabilize and modernize the states created from the break-up of the former soviet union by bringing in free markets and pro-democracy reforms .
the russia-georgia war last august over the breakaway province of south ossetia further underscored the eu 's need to " engage more deeply with its eastern neighbors to stabilize the region , " says sabine fischer , a russia and cis expert at the eu institute for security studies -lrb- euiss -rrb- in paris . then there is belarus , formerly called belorussia or white russia , which the eu has long regarded as the black sheep of the post-soviet cis states .
its president alexander lukashenko , who earned the reputation of being " europe 's last dictator " for his government 's dubious human rights record , had even been placed under an eu travel ban , which was lifted last october .
but now that lukaschenko has said he wants to normalize " difficult " relations with the eu , belarus has been invited to participate in the prague summit on a technical level .
however lukaschenko himself will not attend the summit sending instead his deputy vladimir semachko .
russia makes some noise bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : russian foreign minister sergey lavrov speaks out at last month 's annual brussels forum meeting in brussels since belarus is one of the kremlin 's closest allies , russia foreign minister sergei lavrov expressed his dismay over the eastern partnership at a meeting with eu diplomats in luxembourg on april 28 , saying that " any processes leading to developments within the eu … should ensure no overlap in the post-soviet area . " although moscow 's political leaders see an encroachment on their former " sphere of influence " , their bark is louder than their bite , according to russia analysts .
" russia 's political leadership does not really feel threatened by the eu 's rapprochement with the post-soviet states , " said fischer .
" its leaders are more relaxed with the eu , as opposed to nato , " she added .
stefan meister of the german council on foreign relations -lrb- dgap -rrb- who sees the eastern partnership as a regional grouping similar to the mediterranean union , thinks that lavrov might have felt slighted by being left out of the new initiative .
" but he also understands that this can be a typical eu initiative with a lot of talk , but maybe not much happening , " he said .
extension of existing eu structure the eastern partnership , which would be embedded in an existing structure called the european neighbourhood policy -lrb- enp -rrb- , emerged last year as the brainchild of poland and sweden .
enp was created in 2004 when the eu expanded eastwards to include the former soviet satellite states in the bloc , whose membership jumped from 15 to 25 .
romania and bulgaria later joined the eu in 2007 .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : south ossetian separatist fighters celebrate russian recognition of the breakaway georgian territories of south ossetia and abkhazia its initial objective was to minimize the impact of a new iron curtain between the enlarged eu and the neighboring post-soviet states even further east , by offering a privileged partnership based on a commitment to democratic values and market principles .
the eastern partnership builds up a stronger regional dimension that goes further than the enp , says oksana antonenko , a senior russia analyst at the international institute for strategic studies in london .
enp offers bilateral relations with all countries that border the entire eu by land and sea , including the mediterranean union countries , whereas the ep is a multilateral agreement involving only six countries , she explained .
" the ep opens the door to potentially deeper multi-speed integration with the eu on matters such as visa-free travel or free trade , " said antonenko , who explained that member states could keep progressing to a higher level of cooperation with the eu " a la carte " on a specific issue .
not a stepping stone to join the eu the partnership offers carrots to encourage political and economic reforms , but it is not a stepping stone to eventual eu membership , says dgap 's meister , who characterizes the ep as an alternative to joining the eu .
" it brings the six -lrb- cis -rrb- states closer to the value system of the eu and offers them something like a customs union , but maybe not what they really want - the perspective of eu membership down the road , " he said .
ukraine is eager to join the eu club , but the bloc is suffering from enlargement fatigue and the lisbon treaty , that is supposed to streamline decision-making , still hangs in the balance . one of the lisbon treaty 's goals is to create a more permanent eu presidency filled by a high profile politician for a period of two-and-a-half years to replace the current six month rotating system . when the czech term ends at the end of june , the swedes will take over , a stroke of luck for the eastern partnership , according to fischer .
" the swedes are going to put a strong emphasis on this -lrb- northeastern -rrb- region , " she said .
" after all , the ep was their initiative . " author : diana fong editor : susan houlton send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ? 9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
focus on syria rattling a regime in-depth coverage of the violent protests against the syrian government .
focus on libya libya 's uprising dw-world looks at the turmoil in libya : what it means for tripoli and the rest of the world .
podcast series a former street child in indonesia gives back to kids in need .
listen to the report subscribe to the series on itunes past episodes international conference media representatives around the world gather in bonn to discuss human rights .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
prague summit to launch " eastern partnership " -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de european ties -pipe- 07.05.2009 prague summit to launch " eastern partnership " großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the " eastern partnership " is the brain child of poland and sweden good neighborhood policy is normally on the agenda of the eu rotating presidency .
but the nation at the helm determines which neighbors take priority .
that sweden takes over soon is good news for the eu 's eastern flank . when france was in charge during the second half of 2008 , president nicolas sarkozy made relations with his country 's mediterranean rim neighbors the cornerstone of his six month eu presidency .
membership in sarkozy 's " club med " was based on sharing a common mediterranean coastline , so morocco , turkey , israel and syria met the geographical criteria .
the idea was to provide an eu-mediterranean forum for tackling regional issues such as illegal boat migration from africa , combating terrorism and cleaning up the polluted sea .
the mediterranean union 's inaugural summit last july represented a milestone in bringing the heads of state of israel and its middle east adversaries together in paris , but the french eu initiative had already lost steam by the start of the czech republic 's presidency in january 2009 .
now with less than two months left of prague 's beleaguered eu presidency , the 27 nation bloc 's priorities have shifted northwards and eastwards geographically .
czech prime minister mirek topolanek was ousted last month and will be replaced on may 8 by an interim government .
topolanek 's successor jan fischer takes over the day after the eu launches its " eastern partnership " -lrb- ep -rrb- with six post-soviet states- armenia , azerbaijan , belarus , georgia , moldova and ukraine- at a summit in prague on may 7 .
eu wants stable eastern neighbors bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : eu commission president jose manuel barroso and his commissioners do n't want a new " iron curtain " eu officials say that the goal of the initiative is to help stabilize and modernize the states created from the break-up of the former soviet union by bringing in free markets and pro-democracy reforms .
the russia-georgia war last august over the breakaway province of south ossetia further underscored the eu 's need to " engage more deeply with its eastern neighbors to stabilize the region , " says sabine fischer , a russia and cis expert at the eu institute for security studies -lrb- euiss -rrb- in paris . then there is belarus , formerly called belorussia or white russia , which the eu has long regarded as the black sheep of the post-soviet cis states .
its president alexander lukashenko , who earned the reputation of being " europe 's last dictator " for his government 's dubious human rights record , had even been placed under an eu travel ban , which was lifted last october .
but now that lukaschenko has said he wants to normalize " difficult " relations with the eu , belarus has been invited to participate in the prague summit on a technical level .
however lukaschenko himself will not attend the summit sending instead his deputy vladimir semachko .
russia makes some noise bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : russian foreign minister sergey lavrov speaks out at last month 's annual brussels forum meeting in brussels since belarus is one of the kremlin 's closest allies , russia foreign minister sergei lavrov expressed his dismay over the eastern partnership at a meeting with eu diplomats in luxembourg on april 28 , saying that " any processes leading to developments within the eu … should ensure no overlap in the post-soviet area . " although moscow 's political leaders see an encroachment on their former " sphere of influence " , their bark is louder than their bite , according to russia analysts .
" russia 's political leadership does not really feel threatened by the eu 's rapprochement with the post-soviet states , " said fischer .
" its leaders are more relaxed with the eu , as opposed to nato , " she added .
stefan meister of the german council on foreign relations -lrb- dgap -rrb- who sees the eastern partnership as a regional grouping similar to the mediterranean union , thinks that lavrov might have felt slighted by being left out of the new initiative .
" but he also understands that this can be a typical eu initiative with a lot of talk , but maybe not much happening , " he said .
extension of existing eu structure the eastern partnership , which would be embedded in an existing structure called the european neighbourhood policy -lrb- enp -rrb- , emerged last year as the brainchild of poland and sweden .
enp was created in 2004 when the eu expanded eastwards to include the former soviet satellite states in the bloc , whose membership jumped from 15 to 25 .
romania and bulgaria later joined the eu in 2007 .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : south ossetian separatist fighters celebrate russian recognition of the breakaway georgian territories of south ossetia and abkhazia its initial objective was to minimize the impact of a new iron curtain between the enlarged eu and the neighboring post-soviet states even further east , by offering a privileged partnership based on a commitment to democratic values and market principles .
the eastern partnership builds up a stronger regional dimension that goes further than the enp , says oksana antonenko , a senior russia analyst at the international institute for strategic studies in london .
enp offers bilateral relations with all countries that border the entire eu by land and sea , including the mediterranean union countries , whereas the ep is a multilateral agreement involving only six countries , she explained .
" the ep opens the door to potentially deeper multi-speed integration with the eu on matters such as visa-free travel or free trade , " said antonenko , who explained that member states could keep progressing to a higher level of cooperation with the eu " a la carte " on a specific issue .
not a stepping stone to join the eu the partnership offers carrots to encourage political and economic reforms , but it is not a stepping stone to eventual eu membership , says dgap 's meister , who characterizes the ep as an alternative to joining the eu .
" it brings the six -lrb- cis -rrb- states closer to the value system of the eu and offers them something like a customs union , but maybe not what they really want - the perspective of eu membership down the road , " he said .
ukraine is eager to join the eu club , but the bloc is suffering from enlargement fatigue and the lisbon treaty , that is supposed to streamline decision-making , still hangs in the balance . one of the lisbon treaty 's goals is to create a more permanent eu presidency filled by a high profile politician for a period of two-and-a-half years to replace the current six month rotating system . when the czech term ends at the end of june , the swedes will take over , a stroke of luck for the eastern partnership , according to fischer .
" the swedes are going to put a strong emphasis on this -lrb- northeastern -rrb- region , " she said .
" after all , the ep was their initiative . " author : diana fong editor : susan houlton send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ? 9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
south asia regional cooperation is making little progress in the strategically important region .
listen to the report in depth focus on libya dw-world looks at the turmoil in libya : what it means for tripoli and the rest of the world .
podcast series a berlin designer prompts thought about waste by turning trash , like used teabags , into treasures .
download the report subscribe to the series on itunes past episodes climate change check out deutsche welle 's multimedia coverage of people and projects combating climate change .
the global ideas page learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
georgian opposition clash with police as nato war games begin -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 28.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de georgia -pipe- 07.05.2009 georgian opposition clash with police as nato war games begin großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the nato military exercises that include computer training have flared tensions with georgia 's former soviet master , russia .
riot police in georgia clashed with anti-government officials during a late night rally , attempting to disrupt the kick off of nato 's controversial military exercises . it was the first major outbreak of violence in what 's now been a month of demonstrations against georgia 's president in the capital , tbilisi .
thousands of protestors converged on parliament to demand president mikhail saakashvili 's resignation , as well as the release of three jailed supporters .
georgia 's interior ministry spokesman shota utiashvili said police used truncheons to beat back protesters who were climbing over a fence surrounding the building .
nato exercises reignite georgia-russia tension the month-long nato training activities began on wednesday , and are part of a simulated crisis response operation and peacekeeping exercises .
they will involve at least 1,100 soldiers from 10 nato countries and six of the alliance 's " partner " countries .
the military exercises are being held at a georgian military base formerly used by the russian air force .
the operations have strained ties further between the ex-soviet georgia and its cold war-era rival .
russia fiercely objects to georgia hosting the operation , saying it threatens stability in the region .
earlier in the week , georgia accused russia of backing a brief military mutiny that allegedly included a plot to assassinate the president . cg / rm , reuters / afp / ap send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de nato denies georgia war-games agenda russian anger simmers as a month of partnership for peace -lrb- pfp -rrb- military exercises featuring nato states starts in georgia .
but nato claims that there is no agenda and that moscow was fully informed .
-lrb- 05.05.2009 -rrb- nato expels russian diplomats from brussels amid spying row nato has ordered the expulsion of two diplomats from russia 's nato mission in connection with a spy scandal - a move moscow calls a " provocation . " -lrb- 30.04.2009 -rrb- nato and russia resume formal ties after an eight-month freeze , nato and russia have once again taken up official relations .
but while a dialogue has resumed , disagreement between the two sides still exists .
-lrb- 29.04.2009 -rrb- 9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
south asia regional cooperation is making little progress in the strategically important region .
listen to the report in depth focus on libya dw-world looks at the turmoil in libya : what it means for tripoli and the rest of the world .
podcast series a berlin designer prompts thought about waste by turning trash , like used teabags , into treasures .
download the report subscribe to the series on itunes past episodes climate change check out deutsche welle 's multimedia coverage of people and projects combating climate change .
the global ideas page learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
georgian opposition clash with police as nato war games begin -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 01.11.2010 home news germany europe world from tierra del fuego to tijuana asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de georgia -pipe- 07.05.2009 georgian opposition clash with police as nato war games begin großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the nato military exercises that include computer training have flared tensions with georgia 's former soviet master , russia .
riot police in georgia clashed with anti-government officials during a late night rally , attempting to disrupt the kick off of nato 's controversial military exercises . it was the first major outbreak of violence in what 's now been a month of demonstrations against georgia 's president in the capital , tbilisi .
thousands of protestors converged on parliament to demand president mikhail saakashvili 's resignation , as well as the release of three jailed supporters .
georgia 's interior ministry spokesman shota utiashvili said police used truncheons to beat back protesters who were climbing over a fence surrounding the building .
nato exercises reignite georgia-russia tension the month-long nato training activities began on wednesday , and are part of a simulated crisis response operation and peacekeeping exercises .
they will involve at least 1,100 soldiers from 10 nato countries and six of the alliance 's " partner " countries .
the military exercises are being held at a georgian military base formerly used by the russian air force .
the operations have strained ties further between the ex-soviet georgia and its cold war-era rival .
russia fiercely objects to georgia hosting the operation , saying it threatens stability in the region .
earlier in the week , georgia accused russia of backing a brief military mutiny that allegedly included a plot to assassinate the president . cg / rm , reuters / afp / ap send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de nato denies georgia war-games agenda russian anger simmers as a month of partnership for peace -lrb- pfp -rrb- military exercises featuring nato states starts in georgia .
but nato claims that there is no agenda and that moscow was fully informed .
-lrb- 05.05.2009 -rrb- nato expels russian diplomats from brussels amid spying row nato has ordered the expulsion of two diplomats from russia 's nato mission in connection with a spy scandal - a move moscow calls a " provocation . " -lrb- 30.04.2009 -rrb- nato and russia resume formal ties after an eight-month freeze , nato and russia have once again taken up official relations .
but while a dialogue has resumed , disagreement between the two sides still exists .
-lrb- 29.04.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan new web site check out deutsche welle 's new asia page in english .
dw asia online news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's newest media partner latin america take a multimedia journey discover the region and its people © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
georgian opposition clash with police as nato war games begin -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 03.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de georgia -pipe- 07.05.2009 georgian opposition clash with police as nato war games begin großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the nato military exercises that include computer training have flared tensions with georgia 's former soviet master , russia .
riot police in georgia clashed with anti-government officials during a late night rally , attempting to disrupt the kick off of nato 's controversial military exercises . it was the first major outbreak of violence in what 's now been a month of demonstrations against georgia 's president in the capital , tbilisi .
thousands of protestors converged on parliament to demand president mikhail saakashvili 's resignation , as well as the release of three jailed supporters .
georgia 's interior ministry spokesman shota utiashvili said police used truncheons to beat back protesters who were climbing over a fence surrounding the building .
nato exercises reignite georgia-russia tension the month-long nato training activities began on wednesday , and are part of a simulated crisis response operation and peacekeeping exercises .
they will involve at least 1,100 soldiers from 10 nato countries and six of the alliance 's " partner " countries .
the military exercises are being held at a georgian military base formerly used by the russian air force .
the operations have strained ties further between the ex-soviet georgia and its cold war-era rival .
russia fiercely objects to georgia hosting the operation , saying it threatens stability in the region .
earlier in the week , georgia accused russia of backing a brief military mutiny that allegedly included a plot to assassinate the president . cg / rm , reuters / afp / ap send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de nato denies georgia war-games agenda russian anger simmers as a month of partnership for peace -lrb- pfp -rrb- military exercises featuring nato states starts in georgia .
but nato claims that there is no agenda and that moscow was fully informed .
-lrb- 05.05.2009 -rrb- nato expels russian diplomats from brussels amid spying row nato has ordered the expulsion of two diplomats from russia 's nato mission in connection with a spy scandal - a move moscow calls a " provocation . " -lrb- 30.04.2009 -rrb- nato and russia resume formal ties after an eight-month freeze , nato and russia have once again taken up official relations .
but while a dialogue has resumed , disagreement between the two sides still exists .
-lrb- 29.04.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
caucasus violence explodes in the republic of dagestan amid militants ' efforts to create a muslim nation .
listen to the report .
bundles of booty where do dictators stash their cash ?
asset trackers use ' ladders ' to follow the money .
listen to the report .
transatlantic voices germany 's gremlins berlin needs an overdue debate on what the responsibility to protect means for germany and europe .
international conference media representatives around the world gather in bonn to discuss human rights .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
georgian opposition clash with police as nato war games begin -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 24.01.2011 home news germany europe world from tierra del fuego to tijuana asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de georgia -pipe- 07.05.2009 georgian opposition clash with police as nato war games begin großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the nato military exercises that include computer training have flared tensions with georgia 's former soviet master , russia .
riot police in georgia clashed with anti-government officials during a late night rally , attempting to disrupt the kick off of nato 's controversial military exercises . it was the first major outbreak of violence in what 's now been a month of demonstrations against georgia 's president in the capital , tbilisi .
thousands of protestors converged on parliament to demand president mikhail saakashvili 's resignation , as well as the release of three jailed supporters .
georgia 's interior ministry spokesman shota utiashvili said police used truncheons to beat back protesters who were climbing over a fence surrounding the building .
nato exercises reignite georgia-russia tension the month-long nato training activities began on wednesday , and are part of a simulated crisis response operation and peacekeeping exercises .
they will involve at least 1,100 soldiers from 10 nato countries and six of the alliance 's " partner " countries .
the military exercises are being held at a georgian military base formerly used by the russian air force .
the operations have strained ties further between the ex-soviet georgia and its cold war-era rival .
russia fiercely objects to georgia hosting the operation , saying it threatens stability in the region .
earlier in the week , georgia accused russia of backing a brief military mutiny that allegedly included a plot to assassinate the president . cg / rm , reuters / afp / ap send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de nato denies georgia war-games agenda russian anger simmers as a month of partnership for peace -lrb- pfp -rrb- military exercises featuring nato states starts in georgia .
but nato claims that there is no agenda and that moscow was fully informed .
-lrb- 05.05.2009 -rrb- nato expels russian diplomats from brussels amid spying row nato has ordered the expulsion of two diplomats from russia 's nato mission in connection with a spy scandal - a move moscow calls a " provocation . " -lrb- 30.04.2009 -rrb- nato and russia resume formal ties after an eight-month freeze , nato and russia have once again taken up official relations .
but while a dialogue has resumed , disagreement between the two sides still exists .
-lrb- 29.04.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan latin america take a multimedia journey discover the region and its people news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's newest media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
georgian opposition clash with police as nato war games begin -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 26.09.2010 home news germany europe world from tierra del fuego to tijuana asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de georgia -pipe- 07.05.2009 georgian opposition clash with police as nato war games begin großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the nato military exercises that include computer training have flared tensions with georgia 's former soviet master , russia .
riot police in georgia clashed with anti-government officials during a late night rally , attempting to disrupt the kick off of nato 's controversial military exercises . it was the first major outbreak of violence in what 's now been a month of demonstrations against georgia 's president in the capital , tbilisi .
thousands of protestors converged on parliament to demand president mikhail saakashvili 's resignation , as well as the release of three jailed supporters .
georgia 's interior ministry spokesman shota utiashvili said police used truncheons to beat back protesters who were climbing over a fence surrounding the building .
nato exercises reignite georgia-russia tension the month-long nato training activities began on wednesday , and are part of a simulated crisis response operation and peacekeeping exercises .
they will involve at least 1,100 soldiers from 10 nato countries and six of the alliance 's " partner " countries .
the military exercises are being held at a georgian military base formerly used by the russian air force .
the operations have strained ties further between the ex-soviet georgia and its cold war-era rival .
russia fiercely objects to georgia hosting the operation , saying it threatens stability in the region .
earlier in the week , georgia accused russia of backing a brief military mutiny that allegedly included a plot to assassinate the president . cg / rm , reuters / afp / ap send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de nato denies georgia war-games agenda russian anger simmers as a month of partnership for peace -lrb- pfp -rrb- military exercises featuring nato states starts in georgia .
but nato claims that there is no agenda and that moscow was fully informed .
-lrb- 05.05.2009 -rrb- nato expels russian diplomats from brussels amid spying row nato has ordered the expulsion of two diplomats from russia 's nato mission in connection with a spy scandal - a move moscow calls a " provocation . " -lrb- 30.04.2009 -rrb- nato and russia resume formal ties after an eight-month freeze , nato and russia have once again taken up official relations .
but while a dialogue has resumed , disagreement between the two sides still exists .
-lrb- 29.04.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live in focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live concert hour summer music days in hitzacker listen live no nukes critics say us president obama 's latest push for a world free of nuclear weapons is unrealistic .
watch the video learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan new web site check out deutsche welle 's new asia page in english .
dw asia online news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's newest media partner latin america take a multimedia journey discover the region and its people © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
georgian opposition clash with police as nato war games begin -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 08.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de georgia -pipe- 07.05.2009 georgian opposition clash with police as nato war games begin großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the nato military exercises that include computer training have flared tensions with georgia 's former soviet master , russia .
riot police in georgia clashed with anti-government officials during a late night rally , attempting to disrupt the kick off of nato 's controversial military exercises . it was the first major outbreak of violence in what 's now been a month of demonstrations against georgia 's president in the capital , tbilisi .
thousands of protestors converged on parliament to demand president mikhail saakashvili 's resignation , as well as the release of three jailed supporters .
georgia 's interior ministry spokesman shota utiashvili said police used truncheons to beat back protesters who were climbing over a fence surrounding the building .
nato exercises reignite georgia-russia tension the month-long nato training activities began on wednesday , and are part of a simulated crisis response operation and peacekeeping exercises .
they will involve at least 1,100 soldiers from 10 nato countries and six of the alliance 's " partner " countries .
the military exercises are being held at a georgian military base formerly used by the russian air force .
the operations have strained ties further between the ex-soviet georgia and its cold war-era rival .
russia fiercely objects to georgia hosting the operation , saying it threatens stability in the region .
earlier in the week , georgia accused russia of backing a brief military mutiny that allegedly included a plot to assassinate the president . cg / rm , reuters / afp / ap send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de nato denies georgia war-games agenda russian anger simmers as a month of partnership for peace -lrb- pfp -rrb- military exercises featuring nato states starts in georgia .
but nato claims that there is no agenda and that moscow was fully informed .
-lrb- 05.05.2009 -rrb- nato expels russian diplomats from brussels amid spying row nato has ordered the expulsion of two diplomats from russia 's nato mission in connection with a spy scandal - a move moscow calls a " provocation . " -lrb- 30.04.2009 -rrb- nato and russia resume formal ties after an eight-month freeze , nato and russia have once again taken up official relations .
but while a dialogue has resumed , disagreement between the two sides still exists .
-lrb- 29.04.2009 -rrb- 9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
focus on syria rattling a regime in-depth coverage of the violent protests against the syrian government .
focus on libya libya 's uprising dw-world looks at the turmoil in libya : what it means for tripoli and the rest of the world .
podcast series a former street child in indonesia gives back to kids in need .
listen to the report subscribe to the series on itunes past episodes international conference media representatives around the world gather in bonn to discuss human rights .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
iceland 's new government plans a bid for eu membership -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 31.10.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de european union -pipe- 07.05.2009 iceland 's new government plans a bid for eu membership großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : iceland wants to join the 27-member bloc iceland is preparing a bid for entry into the european union , just two weeks after the country 's new left-wing government was elected into power . the country ’ s prime minister johanna sigurdardottir announced on state television that she would present a parliamentary bill to authorize the start of membership talks with the european union .
" there will be a government resolution tabled -lrb- on eu talks -rrb- , " prime minister johanna sigurdardottir said .
she did not give a timeframe for when the bill would be put forward , but it ’ s expected that the draft could be introduced as early as next week when parliament convenes . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : johanna sigurdardottir says that eu membership is vital for iceland the move is a u-turn for the small northern atlantic island and it ’ s a development which would have been unthinkable only one year ago .
but then the financial crisis struck and the small country was turned upside down .
on the brink of bankruptcy long before the recession arrived in europe and the us , iceland in the summer of 2008 was already in serious trouble .
late last year the country made headlines as it veered toward bankruptcy .
before the sudden downturn , iceland had been thriving , it ’ s people enjoying a living standard among the highest in the world .
the country ’ s banks epitomized the global credit boom and the capital reykjavik became a hub of international finance .
banks expanded overseas and enjoyed exceptional growth .
on the eve of the credit crunch , iceland ’ s banks held foreign assets worth around ten times the country ’ s gdp .
in 2007 , gdp amounted to around $ 11 billion .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : iceland 's kaupthing bank is now run by the governemt iceland was therefore extremely vulnerable to any disruptions on the international financial markets and when the crisis eventually hit , the country went into a tailspin .
the icelandic crown virtually ceased trading and strict capital control had to be introduced to sustain even the import of vital goods such as food and medicine .
the country 's top banks were all nationalized and iceland needed a $ 10 billion rescue package from the international monetary fund to stay afloat .
painful reforms are underway but unemployment is still on the rise and the economic outlook remains gloomy .
public pressure and growing support for eu membership it was not long until the trouble on the balance sheets translated onto the streets .
in a wave of unrest , citizens expressed their anger and frustration at the government 's handling of affairs .
the country was then run by a coalition headed by the center-right independence party which had dominated icelandic politics for decades .
but after months of increasingly violent protests , the government collapsed early this year .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : popular protests brought down the old government in january 2009 new elections in april saw the social democrats emerge as the strongest party and their leader johanna sigurdardottir became the country 's new prime minister .
the 66-year old left little doubt that she wanted to steer her country closer toward the eu .
" it 's the only option we have to safeguard economic stability in the country , " she said after the elections .
the social democrats ' junior coalition partner , the left-greens , had previously opposed a move toward the european union over fears that reykjavik would have to surrender some of its independence to brussels .
however , many of iceland 's 320,000 inhabitants support the idea of joining the eu and ultimately adopting the euro currency .
a snap opinion poll for state television on wednesday showed that 61.2 percent were in favor of eu talks and only 29.6 percent against it . cg / ai , reuters / dpa send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de albania submits bid for european union membership albania has announced it will apply for membership to the 27-member european union .
but european leaders warn the country has a long road ahead of it before it 's ready to join the bloc .
-lrb- 28.04.2009 -rrb- iceland 's interim leftist government wins resounding election victory iceland 's interim leftist government won a resounding victory in this weekend 's general election as voters punished the conservatives they blame for the country 's economic meltdown seven months ago .
-lrb- 26.04.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live learning by ear listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
postcard from europe : the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
iceland 's new government plans a bid for eu membership -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 15.12.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de european union -pipe- 07.05.2009 iceland 's new government plans a bid for eu membership großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : iceland wants to join the 27-member bloc iceland is preparing a bid for entry into the european union , just two weeks after the country 's new left-wing government was elected into power . the country ’ s prime minister johanna sigurdardottir announced on state television that she would present a parliamentary bill to authorize the start of membership talks with the european union .
" there will be a government resolution tabled -lrb- on eu talks -rrb- , " prime minister johanna sigurdardottir said .
she did not give a timeframe for when the bill would be put forward , but it ’ s expected that the draft could be introduced as early as next week when parliament convenes . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : johanna sigurdardottir says that eu membership is vital for iceland the move is a u-turn for the small northern atlantic island and it ’ s a development which would have been unthinkable only one year ago .
but then the financial crisis struck and the small country was turned upside down .
on the brink of bankruptcy long before the recession arrived in europe and the us , iceland in the summer of 2008 was already in serious trouble .
late last year the country made headlines as it veered toward bankruptcy .
before the sudden downturn , iceland had been thriving , it ’ s people enjoying a living standard among the highest in the world .
the country ’ s banks epitomized the global credit boom and the capital reykjavik became a hub of international finance .
banks expanded overseas and enjoyed exceptional growth .
on the eve of the credit crunch , iceland ’ s banks held foreign assets worth around ten times the country ’ s gdp .
in 2007 , gdp amounted to around $ 11 billion .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : iceland 's kaupthing bank is now run by the governemt iceland was therefore extremely vulnerable to any disruptions on the international financial markets and when the crisis eventually hit , the country went into a tailspin .
the icelandic crown virtually ceased trading and strict capital control had to be introduced to sustain even the import of vital goods such as food and medicine .
the country 's top banks were all nationalized and iceland needed a $ 10 billion rescue package from the international monetary fund to stay afloat .
painful reforms are underway but unemployment is still on the rise and the economic outlook remains gloomy .
public pressure and growing support for eu membership it was not long until the trouble on the balance sheets translated onto the streets .
in a wave of unrest , citizens expressed their anger and frustration at the government 's handling of affairs .
the country was then run by a coalition headed by the center-right independence party which had dominated icelandic politics for decades .
but after months of increasingly violent protests , the government collapsed early this year .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : popular protests brought down the old government in january 2009 new elections in april saw the social democrats emerge as the strongest party and their leader johanna sigurdardottir became the country 's new prime minister .
the 66-year old left little doubt that she wanted to steer her country closer toward the eu .
" it 's the only option we have to safeguard economic stability in the country , " she said after the elections .
the social democrats ' junior coalition partner , the left-greens , had previously opposed a move toward the european union over fears that reykjavik would have to surrender some of its independence to brussels .
however , many of iceland 's 320,000 inhabitants support the idea of joining the eu and ultimately adopting the euro currency .
a snap opinion poll for state television on wednesday showed that 61.2 percent were in favor of eu talks and only 29.6 percent against it . cg / ai , reuters / dpa send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de albania submits bid for european union membership albania has announced it will apply for membership to the 27-member european union .
but european leaders warn the country has a long road ahead of it before it 's ready to join the bloc .
-lrb- 28.04.2009 -rrb- iceland 's interim leftist government wins resounding election victory iceland 's interim leftist government won a resounding victory in this weekend 's general election as voters punished the conservatives they blame for the country 's economic meltdown seven months ago .
-lrb- 26.04.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
postcard from europe : a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
iceland 's new government plans a bid for eu membership -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 01.04.2011 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de european union -pipe- 07.05.2009 iceland 's new government plans a bid for eu membership großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : iceland wants to join the 27-member bloc iceland is preparing a bid for entry into the european union , just two weeks after the country 's new left-wing government was elected into power . the country ’ s prime minister johanna sigurdardottir announced on state television that she would present a parliamentary bill to authorize the start of membership talks with the european union .
" there will be a government resolution tabled -lrb- on eu talks -rrb- , " prime minister johanna sigurdardottir said .
she did not give a timeframe for when the bill would be put forward , but it ’ s expected that the draft could be introduced as early as next week when parliament convenes . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : johanna sigurdardottir says that eu membership is vital for iceland the move is a u-turn for the small northern atlantic island and it ’ s a development which would have been unthinkable only one year ago .
but then the financial crisis struck and the small country was turned upside down .
on the brink of bankruptcy long before the recession arrived in europe and the us , iceland in the summer of 2008 was already in serious trouble .
late last year the country made headlines as it veered toward bankruptcy .
before the sudden downturn , iceland had been thriving , it ’ s people enjoying a living standard among the highest in the world .
the country ’ s banks epitomized the global credit boom and the capital reykjavik became a hub of international finance .
banks expanded overseas and enjoyed exceptional growth .
on the eve of the credit crunch , iceland ’ s banks held foreign assets worth around ten times the country ’ s gdp .
in 2007 , gdp amounted to around $ 11 billion .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : iceland 's kaupthing bank is now run by the governemt iceland was therefore extremely vulnerable to any disruptions on the international financial markets and when the crisis eventually hit , the country went into a tailspin .
the icelandic crown virtually ceased trading and strict capital control had to be introduced to sustain even the import of vital goods such as food and medicine .
the country 's top banks were all nationalized and iceland needed a $ 10 billion rescue package from the international monetary fund to stay afloat .
painful reforms are underway but unemployment is still on the rise and the economic outlook remains gloomy .
public pressure and growing support for eu membership it was not long until the trouble on the balance sheets translated onto the streets .
in a wave of unrest , citizens expressed their anger and frustration at the government 's handling of affairs .
the country was then run by a coalition headed by the center-right independence party which had dominated icelandic politics for decades .
but after months of increasingly violent protests , the government collapsed early this year .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : popular protests brought down the old government in january 2009 new elections in april saw the social democrats emerge as the strongest party and their leader johanna sigurdardottir became the country 's new prime minister .
the 66-year old left little doubt that she wanted to steer her country closer toward the eu .
" it 's the only option we have to safeguard economic stability in the country , " she said after the elections .
the social democrats ' junior coalition partner , the left-greens , had previously opposed a move toward the european union over fears that reykjavik would have to surrender some of its independence to brussels .
however , many of iceland 's 320,000 inhabitants support the idea of joining the eu and ultimately adopting the euro currency .
a snap opinion poll for state television on wednesday showed that 61.2 percent were in favor of eu talks and only 29.6 percent against it . cg / ai , reuters / dpa send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de albania submits bid for european union membership albania has announced it will apply for membership to the 27-member european union .
but european leaders warn the country has a long road ahead of it before it 's ready to join the bloc .
-lrb- 28.04.2009 -rrb- iceland 's interim leftist government wins resounding election victory iceland 's interim leftist government won a resounding victory in this weekend 's general election as voters punished the conservatives they blame for the country 's economic meltdown seven months ago .
-lrb- 26.04.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live european business week liquid assets listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
italians hard hit by plastic bag ban east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
iceland 's new government plans a bid for eu membership -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 30.09.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de european union -pipe- 07.05.2009 iceland 's new government plans a bid for eu membership großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : iceland wants to join the 27-member bloc iceland is preparing a bid for entry into the european union , just two weeks after the country 's new left-wing government was elected into power . the country ’ s prime minister johanna sigurdardottir announced on state television that she would present a parliamentary bill to authorize the start of membership talks with the european union .
" there will be a government resolution tabled -lrb- on eu talks -rrb- , " prime minister johanna sigurdardottir said .
she did not give a timeframe for when the bill would be put forward , but it ’ s expected that the draft could be introduced as early as next week when parliament convenes . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : johanna sigurdardottir says that eu membership is vital for iceland the move is a u-turn for the small northern atlantic island and it ’ s a development which would have been unthinkable only one year ago .
but then the financial crisis struck and the small country was turned upside down .
on the brink of bankruptcy long before the recession arrived in europe and the us , iceland in the summer of 2008 was already in serious trouble .
late last year the country made headlines as it veered toward bankruptcy .
before the sudden downturn , iceland had been thriving , it ’ s people enjoying a living standard among the highest in the world .
the country ’ s banks epitomized the global credit boom and the capital reykjavik became a hub of international finance .
banks expanded overseas and enjoyed exceptional growth .
on the eve of the credit crunch , iceland ’ s banks held foreign assets worth around ten times the country ’ s gdp .
in 2007 , gdp amounted to around $ 11 billion .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : iceland 's kaupthing bank is now run by the governemt iceland was therefore extremely vulnerable to any disruptions on the international financial markets and when the crisis eventually hit , the country went into a tailspin .
the icelandic crown virtually ceased trading and strict capital control had to be introduced to sustain even the import of vital goods such as food and medicine .
the country 's top banks were all nationalized and iceland needed a $ 10 billion rescue package from the international monetary fund to stay afloat .
painful reforms are underway but unemployment is still on the rise and the economic outlook remains gloomy .
public pressure and growing support for eu membership it was not long until the trouble on the balance sheets translated onto the streets .
in a wave of unrest , citizens expressed their anger and frustration at the government 's handling of affairs .
the country was then run by a coalition headed by the center-right independence party which had dominated icelandic politics for decades .
but after months of increasingly violent protests , the government collapsed early this year .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : popular protests brought down the old government in january 2009 new elections in april saw the social democrats emerge as the strongest party and their leader johanna sigurdardottir became the country 's new prime minister .
the 66-year old left little doubt that she wanted to steer her country closer toward the eu .
" it 's the only option we have to safeguard economic stability in the country , " she said after the elections .
the social democrats ' junior coalition partner , the left-greens , had previously opposed a move toward the european union over fears that reykjavik would have to surrender some of its independence to brussels .
however , many of iceland 's 320,000 inhabitants support the idea of joining the eu and ultimately adopting the euro currency .
a snap opinion poll for state television on wednesday showed that 61.2 percent were in favor of eu talks and only 29.6 percent against it . cg / ai , reuters / dpa send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de albania submits bid for european union membership albania has announced it will apply for membership to the 27-member european union .
but european leaders warn the country has a long road ahead of it before it 's ready to join the bloc .
-lrb- 28.04.2009 -rrb- iceland 's interim leftist government wins resounding election victory iceland 's interim leftist government won a resounding victory in this weekend 's general election as voters punished the conservatives they blame for the country 's economic meltdown seven months ago .
-lrb- 26.04.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live in good shape we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live arts on the air listen live people natascha kampusch , the austrian who was kept prisoner from age 10 to 18 , publishes her autobigraphy .
listen to the report postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
postcard from europe : betancourt book sparks controversy in france postcard from europe : technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket are the gay games necessary ?
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
iceland 's new government plans a bid for eu membership -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 26.01.2011 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de european union -pipe- 07.05.2009 iceland 's new government plans a bid for eu membership großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : iceland wants to join the 27-member bloc iceland is preparing a bid for entry into the european union , just two weeks after the country 's new left-wing government was elected into power . the country ’ s prime minister johanna sigurdardottir announced on state television that she would present a parliamentary bill to authorize the start of membership talks with the european union .
" there will be a government resolution tabled -lrb- on eu talks -rrb- , " prime minister johanna sigurdardottir said .
she did not give a timeframe for when the bill would be put forward , but it ’ s expected that the draft could be introduced as early as next week when parliament convenes . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : johanna sigurdardottir says that eu membership is vital for iceland the move is a u-turn for the small northern atlantic island and it ’ s a development which would have been unthinkable only one year ago .
but then the financial crisis struck and the small country was turned upside down .
on the brink of bankruptcy long before the recession arrived in europe and the us , iceland in the summer of 2008 was already in serious trouble .
late last year the country made headlines as it veered toward bankruptcy .
before the sudden downturn , iceland had been thriving , it ’ s people enjoying a living standard among the highest in the world .
the country ’ s banks epitomized the global credit boom and the capital reykjavik became a hub of international finance .
banks expanded overseas and enjoyed exceptional growth .
on the eve of the credit crunch , iceland ’ s banks held foreign assets worth around ten times the country ’ s gdp .
in 2007 , gdp amounted to around $ 11 billion .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : iceland 's kaupthing bank is now run by the governemt iceland was therefore extremely vulnerable to any disruptions on the international financial markets and when the crisis eventually hit , the country went into a tailspin .
the icelandic crown virtually ceased trading and strict capital control had to be introduced to sustain even the import of vital goods such as food and medicine .
the country 's top banks were all nationalized and iceland needed a $ 10 billion rescue package from the international monetary fund to stay afloat .
painful reforms are underway but unemployment is still on the rise and the economic outlook remains gloomy .
public pressure and growing support for eu membership it was not long until the trouble on the balance sheets translated onto the streets .
in a wave of unrest , citizens expressed their anger and frustration at the government 's handling of affairs .
the country was then run by a coalition headed by the center-right independence party which had dominated icelandic politics for decades .
but after months of increasingly violent protests , the government collapsed early this year .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : popular protests brought down the old government in january 2009 new elections in april saw the social democrats emerge as the strongest party and their leader johanna sigurdardottir became the country 's new prime minister .
the 66-year old left little doubt that she wanted to steer her country closer toward the eu .
" it 's the only option we have to safeguard economic stability in the country , " she said after the elections .
the social democrats ' junior coalition partner , the left-greens , had previously opposed a move toward the european union over fears that reykjavik would have to surrender some of its independence to brussels .
however , many of iceland 's 320,000 inhabitants support the idea of joining the eu and ultimately adopting the euro currency .
a snap opinion poll for state television on wednesday showed that 61.2 percent were in favor of eu talks and only 29.6 percent against it . cg / ai , reuters / dpa send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de albania submits bid for european union membership albania has announced it will apply for membership to the 27-member european union .
but european leaders warn the country has a long road ahead of it before it 's ready to join the bloc .
-lrb- 28.04.2009 -rrb- iceland 's interim leftist government wins resounding election victory iceland 's interim leftist government won a resounding victory in this weekend 's general election as voters punished the conservatives they blame for the country 's economic meltdown seven months ago .
-lrb- 26.04.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
italians hard hit by plastic bag ban east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
iceland 's new government plans a bid for eu membership -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 06.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de european union -pipe- 07.05.2009 iceland 's new government plans a bid for eu membership großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : iceland wants to join the 27-member bloc iceland is preparing a bid for entry into the european union , just two weeks after the country 's new left-wing government was elected into power . the country ’ s prime minister johanna sigurdardottir announced on state television that she would present a parliamentary bill to authorize the start of membership talks with the european union .
" there will be a government resolution tabled -lrb- on eu talks -rrb- , " prime minister johanna sigurdardottir said .
she did not give a timeframe for when the bill would be put forward , but it ’ s expected that the draft could be introduced as early as next week when parliament convenes . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : johanna sigurdardottir says that eu membership is vital for iceland the move is a u-turn for the small northern atlantic island and it ’ s a development which would have been unthinkable only one year ago .
but then the financial crisis struck and the small country was turned upside down .
on the brink of bankruptcy long before the recession arrived in europe and the us , iceland in the summer of 2008 was already in serious trouble .
late last year the country made headlines as it veered toward bankruptcy .
before the sudden downturn , iceland had been thriving , it ’ s people enjoying a living standard among the highest in the world .
the country ’ s banks epitomized the global credit boom and the capital reykjavik became a hub of international finance .
banks expanded overseas and enjoyed exceptional growth .
on the eve of the credit crunch , iceland ’ s banks held foreign assets worth around ten times the country ’ s gdp .
in 2007 , gdp amounted to around $ 11 billion .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : iceland 's kaupthing bank is now run by the governemt iceland was therefore extremely vulnerable to any disruptions on the international financial markets and when the crisis eventually hit , the country went into a tailspin .
the icelandic crown virtually ceased trading and strict capital control had to be introduced to sustain even the import of vital goods such as food and medicine .
the country 's top banks were all nationalized and iceland needed a $ 10 billion rescue package from the international monetary fund to stay afloat .
painful reforms are underway but unemployment is still on the rise and the economic outlook remains gloomy .
public pressure and growing support for eu membership it was not long until the trouble on the balance sheets translated onto the streets .
in a wave of unrest , citizens expressed their anger and frustration at the government 's handling of affairs .
the country was then run by a coalition headed by the center-right independence party which had dominated icelandic politics for decades .
but after months of increasingly violent protests , the government collapsed early this year .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : popular protests brought down the old government in january 2009 new elections in april saw the social democrats emerge as the strongest party and their leader johanna sigurdardottir became the country 's new prime minister .
the 66-year old left little doubt that she wanted to steer her country closer toward the eu .
" it 's the only option we have to safeguard economic stability in the country , " she said after the elections .
the social democrats ' junior coalition partner , the left-greens , had previously opposed a move toward the european union over fears that reykjavik would have to surrender some of its independence to brussels .
however , many of iceland 's 320,000 inhabitants support the idea of joining the eu and ultimately adopting the euro currency .
a snap opinion poll for state television on wednesday showed that 61.2 percent were in favor of eu talks and only 29.6 percent against it . cg / ai , reuters / dpa send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de albania submits bid for european union membership albania has announced it will apply for membership to the 27-member european union .
but european leaders warn the country has a long road ahead of it before it 's ready to join the bloc .
-lrb- 28.04.2009 -rrb- iceland 's interim leftist government wins resounding election victory iceland 's interim leftist government won a resounding victory in this weekend 's general election as voters punished the conservatives they blame for the country 's economic meltdown seven months ago .
-lrb- 26.04.2009 -rrb- 9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
terrorism europeans give mostly positive reactions to the killing of osama bin laden .
listen to the audio bundesliga near the end dw sports pundits have just two weeks left to hit the jackpot with their picks .
here goes nothing .
rescued one year after greece was bailed out by the eu and imf , debt problems still persist .
watch the video poptastic sweden 's past success with the eurovision song contest has given it high expectations .
listen to the audio postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
french burqa ban fits secular ideals is berlusconi giving italy a bad name ?
a dubious record for belgium inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
iceland 's new government plans a bid for eu membership -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 26.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de european union -pipe- 07.05.2009 iceland 's new government plans a bid for eu membership großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : iceland wants to join the 27-member bloc iceland is preparing a bid for entry into the european union , just two weeks after the country 's new left-wing government was elected into power . the country ’ s prime minister johanna sigurdardottir announced on state television that she would present a parliamentary bill to authorize the start of membership talks with the european union .
" there will be a government resolution tabled -lrb- on eu talks -rrb- , " prime minister johanna sigurdardottir said .
she did not give a timeframe for when the bill would be put forward , but it ’ s expected that the draft could be introduced as early as next week when parliament convenes . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : johanna sigurdardottir says that eu membership is vital for iceland the move is a u-turn for the small northern atlantic island and it ’ s a development which would have been unthinkable only one year ago .
but then the financial crisis struck and the small country was turned upside down .
on the brink of bankruptcy long before the recession arrived in europe and the us , iceland in the summer of 2008 was already in serious trouble .
late last year the country made headlines as it veered toward bankruptcy .
before the sudden downturn , iceland had been thriving , it ’ s people enjoying a living standard among the highest in the world .
the country ’ s banks epitomized the global credit boom and the capital reykjavik became a hub of international finance .
banks expanded overseas and enjoyed exceptional growth .
on the eve of the credit crunch , iceland ’ s banks held foreign assets worth around ten times the country ’ s gdp .
in 2007 , gdp amounted to around $ 11 billion .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : iceland 's kaupthing bank is now run by the governemt iceland was therefore extremely vulnerable to any disruptions on the international financial markets and when the crisis eventually hit , the country went into a tailspin .
the icelandic crown virtually ceased trading and strict capital control had to be introduced to sustain even the import of vital goods such as food and medicine .
the country 's top banks were all nationalized and iceland needed a $ 10 billion rescue package from the international monetary fund to stay afloat .
painful reforms are underway but unemployment is still on the rise and the economic outlook remains gloomy .
public pressure and growing support for eu membership it was not long until the trouble on the balance sheets translated onto the streets .
in a wave of unrest , citizens expressed their anger and frustration at the government 's handling of affairs .
the country was then run by a coalition headed by the center-right independence party which had dominated icelandic politics for decades .
but after months of increasingly violent protests , the government collapsed early this year .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : popular protests brought down the old government in january 2009 new elections in april saw the social democrats emerge as the strongest party and their leader johanna sigurdardottir became the country 's new prime minister .
the 66-year old left little doubt that she wanted to steer her country closer toward the eu .
" it 's the only option we have to safeguard economic stability in the country , " she said after the elections .
the social democrats ' junior coalition partner , the left-greens , had previously opposed a move toward the european union over fears that reykjavik would have to surrender some of its independence to brussels .
however , many of iceland 's 320,000 inhabitants support the idea of joining the eu and ultimately adopting the euro currency .
a snap opinion poll for state television on wednesday showed that 61.2 percent were in favor of eu talks and only 29.6 percent against it . cg / ai , reuters / dpa send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de albania submits bid for european union membership albania has announced it will apply for membership to the 27-member european union .
but european leaders warn the country has a long road ahead of it before it 's ready to join the bloc .
-lrb- 28.04.2009 -rrb- iceland 's interim leftist government wins resounding election victory iceland 's interim leftist government won a resounding victory in this weekend 's general election as voters punished the conservatives they blame for the country 's economic meltdown seven months ago .
-lrb- 26.04.2009 -rrb- 9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - news with in depth we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
diplomacy lithuania and austria row after vienna police release an ex-kgb officer wanted for war crimes .
listen to the audio soccer turkish soccer officials meet in geneva after a match-fixing scandal gets dozens arrested .
listen to the audio education british parents are responding to government education cuts by setting up their own schools .
watch the video inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
the rhino mafia where to serve ?
soliders with dual citizenship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
us-russia arms control deal first step towards global disarmament -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de defense -pipe- 07.05.2009 us-russia arms control deal first step towards global disarmament großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : moscow and washington want to curb nuclear proliferation us and russian officials will begin to negotiate a deal to cut their nuclear weapons arsenals in the coming weeks .
if they succeed , it could convince other nuclear powers to follow suit . the goal is clear and shared by both countries .
russia and the us want to reduce their number of nuclear missiles and replace the old bilateral start arms reduction treaty , which will expire at the end of the year , with a new arms control pact .
a preliminary meeting between the two sides has been described by the russian foreign ministry as " constructive " and " businesslike , " increasing the expectations for a positive outcome .
" i think generally the chances for success are very good " , says oliver meier , international representative of the arms control association .
" both sides on the major issues are really not far apart .
they have the same ideas in mind in terms of overall reductions in warheads , " he added .
" they have the same preferences in terms of having a legally binding , verifiable treaty .
the problem is that the timetable is very challenging because they are aiming for an agreement in the next couple of months and that will be very tough . "
if , as expected , it takes longer to solve the remaining differences , such as whether to include stored warheads as russia wants or not include them as the us wants , the existing start treaty could simply be extended beyond its expiration date at the end of the year .
as an alternative , another similar treaty could be signed until a more ambitious arms deal is reached in a second round of talks .
different categories of nuclear powers bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : barack obama has a long-term vision of a nuclear weapon free world while the prospects to strike a deal with russia look positive , president barack obama has a much loftier vision which he announced in his speech in prague in april : a world free of nuclear weapons .
but could a new arms control agreement between the us and russia , which combined possess at least 90 percent of all nuclear weapons , really put that much pressure on other nuclear powers and launch a global trend towards nuclear disarmament ?
miles pomper , a senior research associate at the center for non-proliferation studies , cautions against unrealistic expectations of a russian-american arms deal on other nations with nuclear weapons .
" what it might do is within the non-proliferation treaty process it would convince other countries of the goodwill of the united states and russia to meet their commitments to make steps toward nuclear disarmament and by doing that those other countries could increase the pressure on the irans and north koreas -lrb- of this world -rrb- to comply with their non-proliferation commitments .
but it 's not a kind of direct correlation . "
the experts point out that it is important to consider that the countries possessing nuclear weapons ca n't simply be lumped together .
the first category of nations , consisting of the states recognized by the nuclear non-proliferation treaty , includes france , britain and china .
getting them involved in arms reduction negotiations would probably be easier than to approach the second group of countries , consisting of india , pakistan , israel and north korea , states that are not formally recognized by the non-proliferation treaty .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : iran and north korea are a risk to regional security , the west says of the official nuclear powers , britain and china tend to be open towards international nuclear disarmament while france has taken a more reluctant stance towards disarmament .
british prime minister gordon brown was speaking about a nuclear free world even before barack obama and china traditionally had voiced a preference for a nuclear weapons free world , the experts point out . it 's a whole different story with the group of unofficial nuclear states .
with them it 's all about regional security , says oliver meier .
" if you go talk about israel of course you have the problem of the middle east , you have the problem of iran and very much will depend on what progress is made in the middle east .
" india and pakistan , of course you have the situation in south asia , the rivalry between those states .
and north korea is anybody 's bet .
that is at the moment very difficult to predict what policy north korea is pursuing . "
political climate has changed bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some in nuclear-armed pakistan harbor hatred of the us and india while it is helpful to keep obama 's vision - a nuclear free world - in mind , it is important to focus on the concrete steps that have to be taken first by russia and the us .
to merely amend or extend the existing start treaty in a first round of negotiations will take time .
to hammer out a new deal with more aggressive cuts in nuclear weapons will require even more patience , says miles pomper .
" just those two negotiations might take all of obama 's first term , assuming there 's a second term .
so i think until you get those you ca n't really judge the third round and maybe bringing other countries into the negotiations . "
obama of course knows himself that the goal of a nuclear free world is a political marathon , not a sprint .
in his speech in prague , he admitted that this goal may not be reached in his lifetime .
still , the global political conditions for a long time have n't been as conducive to nuclear arms reductions as they are right now .
" we now have from a range of people and governments a list of proposals how to move forward towards that goal , " argues oliver meier .
" for the first time in many , many years we have that discussion being led by a range of political actors , but also by the public , who have not taken this goal serious before .
and of course to have the united states in the leadership role has changed the political dynamics a lot . "
author : michael knigge editor : robert mudge send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de obama calls for end to nuclear weapons in prague speech us president barack obama has announced ambitious plans to rid the world of nuclear weapons at a speech in prague .
yet his support for a controversial us missile shield in eastern europe could anger russia .
-lrb- 05.04.2009 -rrb- five security council powers , germany offer direct dialog with iran the five permanent members of the un security council and germany on tuesday offered direct dialogue with iran to solve the ongoing nuclear standoff with the islamic republic .
-lrb- 04.03.2009 -rrb- iran 's new missiles add to europe 's nuclear worries iran alarmed the international community this week by using newly-developed missile technology to launch a satellite into space .
envoys from six countries are meeting in germany on wednesday to plan a response .
-lrb- 04.02.2009 -rrb- north korea says it has reactivated its nuclear program pyongyang says it has reactivated its nuclear program to " bolster the deterrence for self-defence in every way to cope with the increasing military threats from the hostile forces . " -lrb- 25.04.2009 -rrb- 9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
in depth focus on libya dw-world looks at the turmoil in libya : what it means for tripoli and the rest of the world .
podcast series a berlin designer prompts thought about waste by turning trash , like used teabags , into treasures .
download the report subscribe to the series on itunes past episodes climate change check out deutsche welle 's multimedia coverage of people and projects combating climate change .
the global ideas page learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
us-russia arms control deal first step towards global disarmament -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 01.11.2010 home news germany europe world from tierra del fuego to tijuana asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de defense -pipe- 07.05.2009 us-russia arms control deal first step towards global disarmament großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : moscow and washington want to curb nuclear proliferation us and russian officials will begin to negotiate a deal to cut their nuclear weapons arsenals in the coming weeks .
if they succeed , it could convince other nuclear powers to follow suit . the goal is clear and shared by both countries .
russia and the us want to reduce their number of nuclear missiles and replace the old bilateral start arms reduction treaty , which will expire at the end of the year , with a new arms control pact .
a preliminary meeting between the two sides has been described by the russian foreign ministry as " constructive " and " businesslike , " increasing the expectations for a positive outcome .
" i think generally the chances for success are very good " , says oliver meier , international representative of the arms control association .
" both sides on the major issues are really not far apart .
they have the same ideas in mind in terms of overall reductions in warheads , " he added .
" they have the same preferences in terms of having a legally binding , verifiable treaty .
the problem is that the timetable is very challenging because they are aiming for an agreement in the next couple of months and that will be very tough . "
if , as expected , it takes longer to solve the remaining differences , such as whether to include stored warheads as russia wants or not include them as the us wants , the existing start treaty could simply be extended beyond its expiration date at the end of the year .
as an alternative , another similar treaty could be signed until a more ambitious arms deal is reached in a second round of talks .
different categories of nuclear powers bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : barack obama has a long-term vision of a nuclear weapon free world while the prospects to strike a deal with russia look positive , president barack obama has a much loftier vision which he announced in his speech in prague in april : a world free of nuclear weapons .
but could a new arms control agreement between the us and russia , which combined possess at least 90 percent of all nuclear weapons , really put that much pressure on other nuclear powers and launch a global trend towards nuclear disarmament ?
miles pomper , a senior research associate at the center for non-proliferation studies , cautions against unrealistic expectations of a russian-american arms deal on other nations with nuclear weapons .
" what it might do is within the non-proliferation treaty process it would convince other countries of the goodwill of the united states and russia to meet their commitments to make steps toward nuclear disarmament and by doing that those other countries could increase the pressure on the irans and north koreas -lrb- of this world -rrb- to comply with their non-proliferation commitments .
but it 's not a kind of direct correlation . "
the experts point out that it is important to consider that the countries possessing nuclear weapons ca n't simply be lumped together .
the first category of nations , consisting of the states recognized by the nuclear non-proliferation treaty , includes france , britain and china .
getting them involved in arms reduction negotiations would probably be easier than to approach the second group of countries , consisting of india , pakistan , israel and north korea , states that are not formally recognized by the non-proliferation treaty .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : iran and north korea are a risk to regional security , the west says of the official nuclear powers , britain and china tend to be open towards international nuclear disarmament while france has taken a more reluctant stance towards disarmament .
british prime minister gordon brown was speaking about a nuclear free world even before barack obama and china traditionally had voiced a preference for a nuclear weapons free world , the experts point out . it 's a whole different story with the group of unofficial nuclear states .
with them it 's all about regional security , says oliver meier .
" if you go talk about israel of course you have the problem of the middle east , you have the problem of iran and very much will depend on what progress is made in the middle east .
" india and pakistan , of course you have the situation in south asia , the rivalry between those states .
and north korea is anybody 's bet .
that is at the moment very difficult to predict what policy north korea is pursuing . "
political climate has changed bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some in nuclear-armed pakistan harbor hatred of the us and india while it is helpful to keep obama 's vision - a nuclear free world - in mind , it is important to focus on the concrete steps that have to be taken first by russia and the us .
to merely amend or extend the existing start treaty in a first round of negotiations will take time .
to hammer out a new deal with more aggressive cuts in nuclear weapons will require even more patience , says miles pomper .
" just those two negotiations might take all of obama 's first term , assuming there 's a second term .
so i think until you get those you ca n't really judge the third round and maybe bringing other countries into the negotiations . "
obama of course knows himself that the goal of a nuclear free world is a political marathon , not a sprint .
in his speech in prague , he admitted that this goal may not be reached in his lifetime .
still , the global political conditions for a long time have n't been as conducive to nuclear arms reductions as they are right now .
" we now have from a range of people and governments a list of proposals how to move forward towards that goal , " argues oliver meier .
" for the first time in many , many years we have that discussion being led by a range of political actors , but also by the public , who have not taken this goal serious before .
and of course to have the united states in the leadership role has changed the political dynamics a lot . "
author : michael knigge editor : robert mudge send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de obama calls for end to nuclear weapons in prague speech us president barack obama has announced ambitious plans to rid the world of nuclear weapons at a speech in prague .
yet his support for a controversial us missile shield in eastern europe could anger russia .
-lrb- 05.04.2009 -rrb- five security council powers , germany offer direct dialog with iran the five permanent members of the un security council and germany on tuesday offered direct dialogue with iran to solve the ongoing nuclear standoff with the islamic republic .
-lrb- 04.03.2009 -rrb- iran 's new missiles add to europe 's nuclear worries iran alarmed the international community this week by using newly-developed missile technology to launch a satellite into space .
envoys from six countries are meeting in germany on wednesday to plan a response .
-lrb- 04.02.2009 -rrb- north korea says it has reactivated its nuclear program pyongyang says it has reactivated its nuclear program to " bolster the deterrence for self-defence in every way to cope with the increasing military threats from the hostile forces . " -lrb- 25.04.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live sports report listen live learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan new web site check out deutsche welle 's new asia page in english .
dw asia online news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's newest media partner latin america take a multimedia journey discover the region and its people © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
us-russia arms control deal first step towards global disarmament -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 22.09.2010 home news germany europe world from tierra del fuego to tijuana asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de defense -pipe- 07.05.2009 us-russia arms control deal first step towards global disarmament großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : moscow and washington want to curb nuclear proliferation us and russian officials will begin to negotiate a deal to cut their nuclear weapons arsenals in the coming weeks .
if they succeed , it could convince other nuclear powers to follow suit . the goal is clear and shared by both countries .
russia and the us want to reduce their number of nuclear missiles and replace the old bilateral start arms reduction treaty , which will expire at the end of the year , with a new arms control pact .
a preliminary meeting between the two sides has been described by the russian foreign ministry as " constructive " and " businesslike , " increasing the expectations for a positive outcome .
" i think generally the chances for success are very good " , says oliver meier , international representative of the arms control association .
" both sides on the major issues are really not far apart .
they have the same ideas in mind in terms of overall reductions in warheads , " he added .
" they have the same preferences in terms of having a legally binding , verifiable treaty .
the problem is that the timetable is very challenging because they are aiming for an agreement in the next couple of months and that will be very tough . "
if , as expected , it takes longer to solve the remaining differences , such as whether to include stored warheads as russia wants or not include them as the us wants , the existing start treaty could simply be extended beyond its expiration date at the end of the year .
as an alternative , another similar treaty could be signed until a more ambitious arms deal is reached in a second round of talks .
different categories of nuclear powers bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : barack obama has a long-term vision of a nuclear weapon free world while the prospects to strike a deal with russia look positive , president barack obama has a much loftier vision which he announced in his speech in prague in april : a world free of nuclear weapons .
but could a new arms control agreement between the us and russia , which combined possess at least 90 percent of all nuclear weapons , really put that much pressure on other nuclear powers and launch a global trend towards nuclear disarmament ?
miles pomper , a senior research associate at the center for non-proliferation studies , cautions against unrealistic expectations of a russian-american arms deal on other nations with nuclear weapons .
" what it might do is within the non-proliferation treaty process it would convince other countries of the goodwill of the united states and russia to meet their commitments to make steps toward nuclear disarmament and by doing that those other countries could increase the pressure on the irans and north koreas -lrb- of this world -rrb- to comply with their non-proliferation commitments .
but it 's not a kind of direct correlation . "
the experts point out that it is important to consider that the countries possessing nuclear weapons ca n't simply be lumped together .
the first category of nations , consisting of the states recognized by the nuclear non-proliferation treaty , includes france , britain and china .
getting them involved in arms reduction negotiations would probably be easier than to approach the second group of countries , consisting of india , pakistan , israel and north korea , states that are not formally recognized by the non-proliferation treaty .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : iran and north korea are a risk to regional security , the west says of the official nuclear powers , britain and china tend to be open towards international nuclear disarmament while france has taken a more reluctant stance towards disarmament .
british prime minister gordon brown was speaking about a nuclear free world even before barack obama and china traditionally had voiced a preference for a nuclear weapons free world , the experts point out . it 's a whole different story with the group of unofficial nuclear states .
with them it 's all about regional security , says oliver meier .
" if you go talk about israel of course you have the problem of the middle east , you have the problem of iran and very much will depend on what progress is made in the middle east .
" india and pakistan , of course you have the situation in south asia , the rivalry between those states .
and north korea is anybody 's bet .
that is at the moment very difficult to predict what policy north korea is pursuing . "
political climate has changed bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some in nuclear-armed pakistan harbor hatred of the us and india while it is helpful to keep obama 's vision - a nuclear free world - in mind , it is important to focus on the concrete steps that have to be taken first by russia and the us .
to merely amend or extend the existing start treaty in a first round of negotiations will take time .
to hammer out a new deal with more aggressive cuts in nuclear weapons will require even more patience , says miles pomper .
" just those two negotiations might take all of obama 's first term , assuming there 's a second term .
so i think until you get those you ca n't really judge the third round and maybe bringing other countries into the negotiations . "
obama of course knows himself that the goal of a nuclear free world is a political marathon , not a sprint .
in his speech in prague , he admitted that this goal may not be reached in his lifetime .
still , the global political conditions for a long time have n't been as conducive to nuclear arms reductions as they are right now .
" we now have from a range of people and governments a list of proposals how to move forward towards that goal , " argues oliver meier .
" for the first time in many , many years we have that discussion being led by a range of political actors , but also by the public , who have not taken this goal serious before .
and of course to have the united states in the leadership role has changed the political dynamics a lot . "
author : michael knigge editor : robert mudge send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de obama calls for end to nuclear weapons in prague speech us president barack obama has announced ambitious plans to rid the world of nuclear weapons at a speech in prague .
yet his support for a controversial us missile shield in eastern europe could anger russia .
-lrb- 05.04.2009 -rrb- five security council powers , germany offer direct dialog with iran the five permanent members of the un security council and germany on tuesday offered direct dialogue with iran to solve the ongoing nuclear standoff with the islamic republic .
-lrb- 04.03.2009 -rrb- iran 's new missiles add to europe 's nuclear worries iran alarmed the international community this week by using newly-developed missile technology to launch a satellite into space .
envoys from six countries are meeting in germany on wednesday to plan a response .
-lrb- 04.02.2009 -rrb- north korea says it has reactivated its nuclear program pyongyang says it has reactivated its nuclear program to " bolster the deterrence for self-defence in every way to cope with the increasing military threats from the hostile forces . " -lrb- 25.04.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live diplomatic row dw 's china correspondent on rising sino-japanese tensions following arrest of chinese trawlerman .
listen to the interview learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan new web site check out deutsche welle 's new asia page in english .
dw asia online news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's newest media partner latin america take a multimedia journey discover the region and its people © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
us-russia arms control deal first step towards global disarmament -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 16.12.2010 home news germany europe world from tierra del fuego to tijuana asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de defense -pipe- 07.05.2009 us-russia arms control deal first step towards global disarmament großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : moscow and washington want to curb nuclear proliferation us and russian officials will begin to negotiate a deal to cut their nuclear weapons arsenals in the coming weeks .
if they succeed , it could convince other nuclear powers to follow suit . the goal is clear and shared by both countries .
russia and the us want to reduce their number of nuclear missiles and replace the old bilateral start arms reduction treaty , which will expire at the end of the year , with a new arms control pact .
a preliminary meeting between the two sides has been described by the russian foreign ministry as " constructive " and " businesslike , " increasing the expectations for a positive outcome .
" i think generally the chances for success are very good " , says oliver meier , international representative of the arms control association .
" both sides on the major issues are really not far apart .
they have the same ideas in mind in terms of overall reductions in warheads , " he added .
" they have the same preferences in terms of having a legally binding , verifiable treaty .
the problem is that the timetable is very challenging because they are aiming for an agreement in the next couple of months and that will be very tough . "
if , as expected , it takes longer to solve the remaining differences , such as whether to include stored warheads as russia wants or not include them as the us wants , the existing start treaty could simply be extended beyond its expiration date at the end of the year .
as an alternative , another similar treaty could be signed until a more ambitious arms deal is reached in a second round of talks .
different categories of nuclear powers bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : barack obama has a long-term vision of a nuclear weapon free world while the prospects to strike a deal with russia look positive , president barack obama has a much loftier vision which he announced in his speech in prague in april : a world free of nuclear weapons .
but could a new arms control agreement between the us and russia , which combined possess at least 90 percent of all nuclear weapons , really put that much pressure on other nuclear powers and launch a global trend towards nuclear disarmament ?
miles pomper , a senior research associate at the center for non-proliferation studies , cautions against unrealistic expectations of a russian-american arms deal on other nations with nuclear weapons .
" what it might do is within the non-proliferation treaty process it would convince other countries of the goodwill of the united states and russia to meet their commitments to make steps toward nuclear disarmament and by doing that those other countries could increase the pressure on the irans and north koreas -lrb- of this world -rrb- to comply with their non-proliferation commitments .
but it 's not a kind of direct correlation . "
the experts point out that it is important to consider that the countries possessing nuclear weapons ca n't simply be lumped together .
the first category of nations , consisting of the states recognized by the nuclear non-proliferation treaty , includes france , britain and china .
getting them involved in arms reduction negotiations would probably be easier than to approach the second group of countries , consisting of india , pakistan , israel and north korea , states that are not formally recognized by the non-proliferation treaty .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : iran and north korea are a risk to regional security , the west says of the official nuclear powers , britain and china tend to be open towards international nuclear disarmament while france has taken a more reluctant stance towards disarmament .
british prime minister gordon brown was speaking about a nuclear free world even before barack obama and china traditionally had voiced a preference for a nuclear weapons free world , the experts point out . it 's a whole different story with the group of unofficial nuclear states .
with them it 's all about regional security , says oliver meier .
" if you go talk about israel of course you have the problem of the middle east , you have the problem of iran and very much will depend on what progress is made in the middle east .
" india and pakistan , of course you have the situation in south asia , the rivalry between those states .
and north korea is anybody 's bet .
that is at the moment very difficult to predict what policy north korea is pursuing . "
political climate has changed bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some in nuclear-armed pakistan harbor hatred of the us and india while it is helpful to keep obama 's vision - a nuclear free world - in mind , it is important to focus on the concrete steps that have to be taken first by russia and the us .
to merely amend or extend the existing start treaty in a first round of negotiations will take time .
to hammer out a new deal with more aggressive cuts in nuclear weapons will require even more patience , says miles pomper .
" just those two negotiations might take all of obama 's first term , assuming there 's a second term .
so i think until you get those you ca n't really judge the third round and maybe bringing other countries into the negotiations . "
obama of course knows himself that the goal of a nuclear free world is a political marathon , not a sprint .
in his speech in prague , he admitted that this goal may not be reached in his lifetime .
still , the global political conditions for a long time have n't been as conducive to nuclear arms reductions as they are right now .
" we now have from a range of people and governments a list of proposals how to move forward towards that goal , " argues oliver meier .
" for the first time in many , many years we have that discussion being led by a range of political actors , but also by the public , who have not taken this goal serious before .
and of course to have the united states in the leadership role has changed the political dynamics a lot . "
author : michael knigge editor : robert mudge send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de obama calls for end to nuclear weapons in prague speech us president barack obama has announced ambitious plans to rid the world of nuclear weapons at a speech in prague .
yet his support for a controversial us missile shield in eastern europe could anger russia .
-lrb- 05.04.2009 -rrb- five security council powers , germany offer direct dialog with iran the five permanent members of the un security council and germany on tuesday offered direct dialogue with iran to solve the ongoing nuclear standoff with the islamic republic .
-lrb- 04.03.2009 -rrb- iran 's new missiles add to europe 's nuclear worries iran alarmed the international community this week by using newly-developed missile technology to launch a satellite into space .
envoys from six countries are meeting in germany on wednesday to plan a response .
-lrb- 04.02.2009 -rrb- north korea says it has reactivated its nuclear program pyongyang says it has reactivated its nuclear program to " bolster the deterrence for self-defence in every way to cope with the increasing military threats from the hostile forces . " -lrb- 25.04.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
focus wikileaks read our dw-world focus on the latest wikileaks revelations and their impact around the globe .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan new web site check out deutsche welle 's new asia page in english .
dw asia online latin america take a multimedia journey discover the region and its people news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's newest media partner © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
us-russia arms control deal first step towards global disarmament -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 07.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de defense -pipe- 07.05.2009 us-russia arms control deal first step towards global disarmament großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : moscow and washington want to curb nuclear proliferation us and russian officials will begin to negotiate a deal to cut their nuclear weapons arsenals in the coming weeks .
if they succeed , it could convince other nuclear powers to follow suit . the goal is clear and shared by both countries .
russia and the us want to reduce their number of nuclear missiles and replace the old bilateral start arms reduction treaty , which will expire at the end of the year , with a new arms control pact .
a preliminary meeting between the two sides has been described by the russian foreign ministry as " constructive " and " businesslike , " increasing the expectations for a positive outcome .
" i think generally the chances for success are very good " , says oliver meier , international representative of the arms control association .
" both sides on the major issues are really not far apart .
they have the same ideas in mind in terms of overall reductions in warheads , " he added .
" they have the same preferences in terms of having a legally binding , verifiable treaty .
the problem is that the timetable is very challenging because they are aiming for an agreement in the next couple of months and that will be very tough . "
if , as expected , it takes longer to solve the remaining differences , such as whether to include stored warheads as russia wants or not include them as the us wants , the existing start treaty could simply be extended beyond its expiration date at the end of the year .
as an alternative , another similar treaty could be signed until a more ambitious arms deal is reached in a second round of talks .
different categories of nuclear powers bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : barack obama has a long-term vision of a nuclear weapon free world while the prospects to strike a deal with russia look positive , president barack obama has a much loftier vision which he announced in his speech in prague in april : a world free of nuclear weapons .
but could a new arms control agreement between the us and russia , which combined possess at least 90 percent of all nuclear weapons , really put that much pressure on other nuclear powers and launch a global trend towards nuclear disarmament ?
miles pomper , a senior research associate at the center for non-proliferation studies , cautions against unrealistic expectations of a russian-american arms deal on other nations with nuclear weapons .
" what it might do is within the non-proliferation treaty process it would convince other countries of the goodwill of the united states and russia to meet their commitments to make steps toward nuclear disarmament and by doing that those other countries could increase the pressure on the irans and north koreas -lrb- of this world -rrb- to comply with their non-proliferation commitments .
but it 's not a kind of direct correlation . "
the experts point out that it is important to consider that the countries possessing nuclear weapons ca n't simply be lumped together .
the first category of nations , consisting of the states recognized by the nuclear non-proliferation treaty , includes france , britain and china .
getting them involved in arms reduction negotiations would probably be easier than to approach the second group of countries , consisting of india , pakistan , israel and north korea , states that are not formally recognized by the non-proliferation treaty .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : iran and north korea are a risk to regional security , the west says of the official nuclear powers , britain and china tend to be open towards international nuclear disarmament while france has taken a more reluctant stance towards disarmament .
british prime minister gordon brown was speaking about a nuclear free world even before barack obama and china traditionally had voiced a preference for a nuclear weapons free world , the experts point out . it 's a whole different story with the group of unofficial nuclear states .
with them it 's all about regional security , says oliver meier .
" if you go talk about israel of course you have the problem of the middle east , you have the problem of iran and very much will depend on what progress is made in the middle east .
" india and pakistan , of course you have the situation in south asia , the rivalry between those states .
and north korea is anybody 's bet .
that is at the moment very difficult to predict what policy north korea is pursuing . "
political climate has changed bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some in nuclear-armed pakistan harbor hatred of the us and india while it is helpful to keep obama 's vision - a nuclear free world - in mind , it is important to focus on the concrete steps that have to be taken first by russia and the us .
to merely amend or extend the existing start treaty in a first round of negotiations will take time .
to hammer out a new deal with more aggressive cuts in nuclear weapons will require even more patience , says miles pomper .
" just those two negotiations might take all of obama 's first term , assuming there 's a second term .
so i think until you get those you ca n't really judge the third round and maybe bringing other countries into the negotiations . "
obama of course knows himself that the goal of a nuclear free world is a political marathon , not a sprint .
in his speech in prague , he admitted that this goal may not be reached in his lifetime .
still , the global political conditions for a long time have n't been as conducive to nuclear arms reductions as they are right now .
" we now have from a range of people and governments a list of proposals how to move forward towards that goal , " argues oliver meier .
" for the first time in many , many years we have that discussion being led by a range of political actors , but also by the public , who have not taken this goal serious before .
and of course to have the united states in the leadership role has changed the political dynamics a lot . "
author : michael knigge editor : robert mudge send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de obama calls for end to nuclear weapons in prague speech us president barack obama has announced ambitious plans to rid the world of nuclear weapons at a speech in prague .
yet his support for a controversial us missile shield in eastern europe could anger russia .
-lrb- 05.04.2009 -rrb- five security council powers , germany offer direct dialog with iran the five permanent members of the un security council and germany on tuesday offered direct dialogue with iran to solve the ongoing nuclear standoff with the islamic republic .
-lrb- 04.03.2009 -rrb- iran 's new missiles add to europe 's nuclear worries iran alarmed the international community this week by using newly-developed missile technology to launch a satellite into space .
envoys from six countries are meeting in germany on wednesday to plan a response .
-lrb- 04.02.2009 -rrb- north korea says it has reactivated its nuclear program pyongyang says it has reactivated its nuclear program to " bolster the deterrence for self-defence in every way to cope with the increasing military threats from the hostile forces . " -lrb- 25.04.2009 -rrb- 9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
focus on syria rattling a regime in-depth coverage of the violent protests against the syrian government .
focus on libya libya 's uprising dw-world looks at the turmoil in libya : what it means for tripoli and the rest of the world .
podcast series a former street child in indonesia gives back to kids in need .
listen to the report subscribe to the series on itunes past episodes international conference media representatives around the world gather in bonn to discuss human rights .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
us-russia arms control deal first step towards global disarmament -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 26.01.2011 home news germany europe world from tierra del fuego to tijuana asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de defense -pipe- 07.05.2009 us-russia arms control deal first step towards global disarmament großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : moscow and washington want to curb nuclear proliferation us and russian officials will begin to negotiate a deal to cut their nuclear weapons arsenals in the coming weeks .
if they succeed , it could convince other nuclear powers to follow suit . the goal is clear and shared by both countries .
russia and the us want to reduce their number of nuclear missiles and replace the old bilateral start arms reduction treaty , which will expire at the end of the year , with a new arms control pact .
a preliminary meeting between the two sides has been described by the russian foreign ministry as " constructive " and " businesslike , " increasing the expectations for a positive outcome .
" i think generally the chances for success are very good " , says oliver meier , international representative of the arms control association .
" both sides on the major issues are really not far apart .
they have the same ideas in mind in terms of overall reductions in warheads , " he added .
" they have the same preferences in terms of having a legally binding , verifiable treaty .
the problem is that the timetable is very challenging because they are aiming for an agreement in the next couple of months and that will be very tough . "
if , as expected , it takes longer to solve the remaining differences , such as whether to include stored warheads as russia wants or not include them as the us wants , the existing start treaty could simply be extended beyond its expiration date at the end of the year .
as an alternative , another similar treaty could be signed until a more ambitious arms deal is reached in a second round of talks .
different categories of nuclear powers bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : barack obama has a long-term vision of a nuclear weapon free world while the prospects to strike a deal with russia look positive , president barack obama has a much loftier vision which he announced in his speech in prague in april : a world free of nuclear weapons .
but could a new arms control agreement between the us and russia , which combined possess at least 90 percent of all nuclear weapons , really put that much pressure on other nuclear powers and launch a global trend towards nuclear disarmament ?
miles pomper , a senior research associate at the center for non-proliferation studies , cautions against unrealistic expectations of a russian-american arms deal on other nations with nuclear weapons .
" what it might do is within the non-proliferation treaty process it would convince other countries of the goodwill of the united states and russia to meet their commitments to make steps toward nuclear disarmament and by doing that those other countries could increase the pressure on the irans and north koreas -lrb- of this world -rrb- to comply with their non-proliferation commitments .
but it 's not a kind of direct correlation . "
the experts point out that it is important to consider that the countries possessing nuclear weapons ca n't simply be lumped together .
the first category of nations , consisting of the states recognized by the nuclear non-proliferation treaty , includes france , britain and china .
getting them involved in arms reduction negotiations would probably be easier than to approach the second group of countries , consisting of india , pakistan , israel and north korea , states that are not formally recognized by the non-proliferation treaty .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : iran and north korea are a risk to regional security , the west says of the official nuclear powers , britain and china tend to be open towards international nuclear disarmament while france has taken a more reluctant stance towards disarmament .
british prime minister gordon brown was speaking about a nuclear free world even before barack obama and china traditionally had voiced a preference for a nuclear weapons free world , the experts point out . it 's a whole different story with the group of unofficial nuclear states .
with them it 's all about regional security , says oliver meier .
" if you go talk about israel of course you have the problem of the middle east , you have the problem of iran and very much will depend on what progress is made in the middle east .
" india and pakistan , of course you have the situation in south asia , the rivalry between those states .
and north korea is anybody 's bet .
that is at the moment very difficult to predict what policy north korea is pursuing . "
political climate has changed bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some in nuclear-armed pakistan harbor hatred of the us and india while it is helpful to keep obama 's vision - a nuclear free world - in mind , it is important to focus on the concrete steps that have to be taken first by russia and the us .
to merely amend or extend the existing start treaty in a first round of negotiations will take time .
to hammer out a new deal with more aggressive cuts in nuclear weapons will require even more patience , says miles pomper .
" just those two negotiations might take all of obama 's first term , assuming there 's a second term .
so i think until you get those you ca n't really judge the third round and maybe bringing other countries into the negotiations . "
obama of course knows himself that the goal of a nuclear free world is a political marathon , not a sprint .
in his speech in prague , he admitted that this goal may not be reached in his lifetime .
still , the global political conditions for a long time have n't been as conducive to nuclear arms reductions as they are right now .
" we now have from a range of people and governments a list of proposals how to move forward towards that goal , " argues oliver meier .
" for the first time in many , many years we have that discussion being led by a range of political actors , but also by the public , who have not taken this goal serious before .
and of course to have the united states in the leadership role has changed the political dynamics a lot . "
author : michael knigge editor : robert mudge send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de obama calls for end to nuclear weapons in prague speech us president barack obama has announced ambitious plans to rid the world of nuclear weapons at a speech in prague .
yet his support for a controversial us missile shield in eastern europe could anger russia .
-lrb- 05.04.2009 -rrb- five security council powers , germany offer direct dialog with iran the five permanent members of the un security council and germany on tuesday offered direct dialogue with iran to solve the ongoing nuclear standoff with the islamic republic .
-lrb- 04.03.2009 -rrb- iran 's new missiles add to europe 's nuclear worries iran alarmed the international community this week by using newly-developed missile technology to launch a satellite into space .
envoys from six countries are meeting in germany on wednesday to plan a response .
-lrb- 04.02.2009 -rrb- north korea says it has reactivated its nuclear program pyongyang says it has reactivated its nuclear program to " bolster the deterrence for self-defence in every way to cope with the increasing military threats from the hostile forces . " -lrb- 25.04.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan latin america take a multimedia journey discover the region and its people news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's newest media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
deutsche telekom posts large first-quarter loss -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 31.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de communications -pipe- 07.05.2009 deutsche telekom posts large first-quarter loss großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the loss brings dark clouds to deutsche telekom germany 's telecommunications operator , deutsche telekom , has blamed the economic downturn and intense competition for its first quarter loss of 1.12 billion euros . the bonn-based company announced the big loss for the january-march period , and compared it to the net profit of 924 million euros -lrb- $ 1.2 billion -rrb- it posted in the first quarter of 2008 .
it attributed the loss to a devaluation of its british t-mobile unit and " the strong economic slowdown and more intense competition in the united kingdom . "
however , in a written statement , the telecommunications giant announced it had an increase in total sales , up 6.2 percent on the same period last year .
that was explained by the integration of greek telecom operator ote into deutsche telekom 's books in february .
" the figures we are presenting today show a mixed picture , " deutsche telekom chairman rene obermann said .
" despite the difficult environment in some markets , we are in a relatively stable position , " he added .
meanwhile , the financial times deutschland has reported that telekom plans job cuts in its t-systems unit , saying that 1,500 workers will be laid off .
rene obermann has denied the report . cg / dfm / rm , afp / ap send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de t-mobile rules out compensation after network failure germany 's largest mobile phone operator has ruled out paying compensation after an embarrassing outage in its network left millions of customers without service .
-lrb- 23.04.2009 -rrb- deutsche bank extends ceo 's contract amid first-quarter profits deutsche bank chief josef ackermann has agreed to another three years at the helm , while the bank made good on disastrous 2008 figures by posting impressive first quarter profits .
-lrb- 28.04.2009 -rrb- germany 's munich re posts 2008 profit of 1.5 billion euros munich re , the world 's second biggest re-insurance group , on wednesday posted a net profit of 1.5 billion euros -lrb- $ 1.9 billion -rrb- for 2008 , with a slight gain of around 100 million euros in the last quarter .
-lrb- 04.02.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live learning by ear listen live stock exchange today in history 1517 : reformation day © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
deutsche telekom posts large first-quarter loss -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 02.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business 125 years automobile science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de communications -pipe- 07.05.2009 deutsche telekom posts large first-quarter loss großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the loss brings dark clouds to deutsche telekom germany 's telecommunications operator , deutsche telekom , has blamed the economic downturn and intense competition for its first quarter loss of 1.12 billion euros . the bonn-based company announced the big loss for the january-march period , and compared it to the net profit of 924 million euros -lrb- $ 1.2 billion -rrb- it posted in the first quarter of 2008 .
it attributed the loss to a devaluation of its british t-mobile unit and " the strong economic slowdown and more intense competition in the united kingdom . "
however , in a written statement , the telecommunications giant announced it had an increase in total sales , up 6.2 percent on the same period last year .
that was explained by the integration of greek telecom operator ote into deutsche telekom 's books in february .
" the figures we are presenting today show a mixed picture , " deutsche telekom chairman rene obermann said .
" despite the difficult environment in some markets , we are in a relatively stable position , " he added .
meanwhile , the financial times deutschland has reported that telekom plans job cuts in its t-systems unit , saying that 1,500 workers will be laid off .
rene obermann has denied the report . cg / dfm / rm , afp / ap send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de t-mobile rules out compensation after network failure germany 's largest mobile phone operator has ruled out paying compensation after an embarrassing outage in its network left millions of customers without service .
-lrb- 23.04.2009 -rrb- deutsche bank extends ceo 's contract amid first-quarter profits deutsche bank chief josef ackermann has agreed to another three years at the helm , while the bank made good on disastrous 2008 figures by posting impressive first quarter profits .
-lrb- 28.04.2009 -rrb- germany 's munich re posts 2008 profit of 1.5 billion euros munich re , the world 's second biggest re-insurance group , on wednesday posted a net profit of 1.5 billion euros -lrb- $ 1.9 billion -rrb- for 2008 , with a slight gain of around 100 million euros in the last quarter .
-lrb- 04.02.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week liquid assets : listen to the latest european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-tv europe live people and politics we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live dw-tv get an inside look at some of germany 's more unusual companies .
the future of motoring 2 : zero-emissions vehicles the crisis in portugal bio-fuels : the debate continues pumps and robots - german technology for fukushima stock exchange today in history 1982 : argentinians land in the falklands © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
deutsche telekom posts large first-quarter loss -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 16.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de communications -pipe- 07.05.2009 deutsche telekom posts large first-quarter loss großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the loss brings dark clouds to deutsche telekom germany 's telecommunications operator , deutsche telekom , has blamed the economic downturn and intense competition for its first quarter loss of 1.12 billion euros . the bonn-based company announced the big loss for the january-march period , and compared it to the net profit of 924 million euros -lrb- $ 1.2 billion -rrb- it posted in the first quarter of 2008 .
it attributed the loss to a devaluation of its british t-mobile unit and " the strong economic slowdown and more intense competition in the united kingdom . "
however , in a written statement , the telecommunications giant announced it had an increase in total sales , up 6.2 percent on the same period last year .
that was explained by the integration of greek telecom operator ote into deutsche telekom 's books in february .
" the figures we are presenting today show a mixed picture , " deutsche telekom chairman rene obermann said .
" despite the difficult environment in some markets , we are in a relatively stable position , " he added .
meanwhile , the financial times deutschland has reported that telekom plans job cuts in its t-systems unit , saying that 1,500 workers will be laid off .
rene obermann has denied the report . cg / dfm / rm , afp / ap send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de t-mobile rules out compensation after network failure germany 's largest mobile phone operator has ruled out paying compensation after an embarrassing outage in its network left millions of customers without service .
-lrb- 23.04.2009 -rrb- deutsche bank extends ceo 's contract amid first-quarter profits deutsche bank chief josef ackermann has agreed to another three years at the helm , while the bank made good on disastrous 2008 figures by posting impressive first quarter profits .
-lrb- 28.04.2009 -rrb- germany 's munich re posts 2008 profit of 1.5 billion euros munich re , the world 's second biggest re-insurance group , on wednesday posted a net profit of 1.5 billion euros -lrb- $ 1.9 billion -rrb- for 2008 , with a slight gain of around 100 million euros in the last quarter .
-lrb- 04.02.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live europa aktuell we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live arts on the air listen live stock exchange today in history 1992 : chains of light against racism © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
deutsche telekom posts large first-quarter loss -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 23.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de communications -pipe- 07.05.2009 deutsche telekom posts large first-quarter loss großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the loss brings dark clouds to deutsche telekom germany 's telecommunications operator , deutsche telekom , has blamed the economic downturn and intense competition for its first quarter loss of 1.12 billion euros . the bonn-based company announced the big loss for the january-march period , and compared it to the net profit of 924 million euros -lrb- $ 1.2 billion -rrb- it posted in the first quarter of 2008 .
it attributed the loss to a devaluation of its british t-mobile unit and " the strong economic slowdown and more intense competition in the united kingdom . "
however , in a written statement , the telecommunications giant announced it had an increase in total sales , up 6.2 percent on the same period last year .
that was explained by the integration of greek telecom operator ote into deutsche telekom 's books in february .
" the figures we are presenting today show a mixed picture , " deutsche telekom chairman rene obermann said .
" despite the difficult environment in some markets , we are in a relatively stable position , " he added .
meanwhile , the financial times deutschland has reported that telekom plans job cuts in its t-systems unit , saying that 1,500 workers will be laid off .
rene obermann has denied the report . cg / dfm / rm , afp / ap send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de t-mobile rules out compensation after network failure germany 's largest mobile phone operator has ruled out paying compensation after an embarrassing outage in its network left millions of customers without service .
-lrb- 23.04.2009 -rrb- deutsche bank extends ceo 's contract amid first-quarter profits deutsche bank chief josef ackermann has agreed to another three years at the helm , while the bank made good on disastrous 2008 figures by posting impressive first quarter profits .
-lrb- 28.04.2009 -rrb- germany 's munich re posts 2008 profit of 1.5 billion euros munich re , the world 's second biggest re-insurance group , on wednesday posted a net profit of 1.5 billion euros -lrb- $ 1.9 billion -rrb- for 2008 , with a slight gain of around 100 million euros in the last quarter .
-lrb- 04.02.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live in focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live concert hour listen live banking get an inside look at some of germany 's more unusual companies .
fifa women 's world cup - another summer celebration ?
la máquina - tunnel-boring machinery for mexico , part 4 : the breakthrough industrial farming - pigs at dumping prices siematic kitchens - exclusive and expensive stock exchange today in history 1962 : premier of jules et jim © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
deutsche telekom posts large first-quarter loss -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 26.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de communications -pipe- 07.05.2009 deutsche telekom posts large first-quarter loss großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the loss brings dark clouds to deutsche telekom germany 's telecommunications operator , deutsche telekom , has blamed the economic downturn and intense competition for its first quarter loss of 1.12 billion euros . the bonn-based company announced the big loss for the january-march period , and compared it to the net profit of 924 million euros -lrb- $ 1.2 billion -rrb- it posted in the first quarter of 2008 .
it attributed the loss to a devaluation of its british t-mobile unit and " the strong economic slowdown and more intense competition in the united kingdom . "
however , in a written statement , the telecommunications giant announced it had an increase in total sales , up 6.2 percent on the same period last year .
that was explained by the integration of greek telecom operator ote into deutsche telekom 's books in february .
" the figures we are presenting today show a mixed picture , " deutsche telekom chairman rene obermann said .
" despite the difficult environment in some markets , we are in a relatively stable position , " he added .
meanwhile , the financial times deutschland has reported that telekom plans job cuts in its t-systems unit , saying that 1,500 workers will be laid off .
rene obermann has denied the report . cg / dfm / rm , afp / ap send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de t-mobile rules out compensation after network failure germany 's largest mobile phone operator has ruled out paying compensation after an embarrassing outage in its network left millions of customers without service .
-lrb- 23.04.2009 -rrb- deutsche bank extends ceo 's contract amid first-quarter profits deutsche bank chief josef ackermann has agreed to another three years at the helm , while the bank made good on disastrous 2008 figures by posting impressive first quarter profits .
-lrb- 28.04.2009 -rrb- germany 's munich re posts 2008 profit of 1.5 billion euros munich re , the world 's second biggest re-insurance group , on wednesday posted a net profit of 1.5 billion euros -lrb- $ 1.9 billion -rrb- for 2008 , with a slight gain of around 100 million euros in the last quarter .
-lrb- 04.02.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week the european business week page listen to the latest european business week -lrb- 24.09.2010 -rrb- labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live in-box feedback from around the world listen live stock exchange today in history 1887 : presentation of the gramophone © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
deutsche telekom posts large first-quarter loss -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 07.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business 125 years automobile science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de communications -pipe- 07.05.2009 deutsche telekom posts large first-quarter loss großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the loss brings dark clouds to deutsche telekom germany 's telecommunications operator , deutsche telekom , has blamed the economic downturn and intense competition for its first quarter loss of 1.12 billion euros . the bonn-based company announced the big loss for the january-march period , and compared it to the net profit of 924 million euros -lrb- $ 1.2 billion -rrb- it posted in the first quarter of 2008 .
it attributed the loss to a devaluation of its british t-mobile unit and " the strong economic slowdown and more intense competition in the united kingdom . "
however , in a written statement , the telecommunications giant announced it had an increase in total sales , up 6.2 percent on the same period last year .
that was explained by the integration of greek telecom operator ote into deutsche telekom 's books in february .
" the figures we are presenting today show a mixed picture , " deutsche telekom chairman rene obermann said .
" despite the difficult environment in some markets , we are in a relatively stable position , " he added .
meanwhile , the financial times deutschland has reported that telekom plans job cuts in its t-systems unit , saying that 1,500 workers will be laid off .
rene obermann has denied the report . cg / dfm / rm , afp / ap send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de t-mobile rules out compensation after network failure germany 's largest mobile phone operator has ruled out paying compensation after an embarrassing outage in its network left millions of customers without service .
-lrb- 23.04.2009 -rrb- deutsche bank extends ceo 's contract amid first-quarter profits deutsche bank chief josef ackermann has agreed to another three years at the helm , while the bank made good on disastrous 2008 figures by posting impressive first quarter profits .
-lrb- 28.04.2009 -rrb- germany 's munich re posts 2008 profit of 1.5 billion euros munich re , the world 's second biggest re-insurance group , on wednesday posted a net profit of 1.5 billion euros -lrb- $ 1.9 billion -rrb- for 2008 , with a slight gain of around 100 million euros in the last quarter .
-lrb- 04.02.2009 -rrb- 9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week finance and flowers : listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live stock exchange today in history 1937 : zeppelin explodes dw-tv get an inside look at some of germany 's more unusual companies .
nicola lemken - plowing a successful furrow audi and the dtm , part 4 - big race , big business greece - a year with the financial rescue package handmade in germany : belts for a lifetime © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
deutsche telekom posts large first-quarter loss -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business 125 years automobile science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de communications -pipe- 07.05.2009 deutsche telekom posts large first-quarter loss großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the loss brings dark clouds to deutsche telekom germany 's telecommunications operator , deutsche telekom , has blamed the economic downturn and intense competition for its first quarter loss of 1.12 billion euros . the bonn-based company announced the big loss for the january-march period , and compared it to the net profit of 924 million euros -lrb- $ 1.2 billion -rrb- it posted in the first quarter of 2008 .
it attributed the loss to a devaluation of its british t-mobile unit and " the strong economic slowdown and more intense competition in the united kingdom . "
however , in a written statement , the telecommunications giant announced it had an increase in total sales , up 6.2 percent on the same period last year .
that was explained by the integration of greek telecom operator ote into deutsche telekom 's books in february .
" the figures we are presenting today show a mixed picture , " deutsche telekom chairman rene obermann said .
" despite the difficult environment in some markets , we are in a relatively stable position , " he added .
meanwhile , the financial times deutschland has reported that telekom plans job cuts in its t-systems unit , saying that 1,500 workers will be laid off .
rene obermann has denied the report . cg / dfm / rm , afp / ap send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de t-mobile rules out compensation after network failure germany 's largest mobile phone operator has ruled out paying compensation after an embarrassing outage in its network left millions of customers without service .
-lrb- 23.04.2009 -rrb- deutsche bank extends ceo 's contract amid first-quarter profits deutsche bank chief josef ackermann has agreed to another three years at the helm , while the bank made good on disastrous 2008 figures by posting impressive first quarter profits .
-lrb- 28.04.2009 -rrb- germany 's munich re posts 2008 profit of 1.5 billion euros munich re , the world 's second biggest re-insurance group , on wednesday posted a net profit of 1.5 billion euros -lrb- $ 1.9 billion -rrb- for 2008 , with a slight gain of around 100 million euros in the last quarter .
-lrb- 04.02.2009 -rrb- 9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-tv europe live im focus - dokumentationen und reportagen we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live stock exchange today in history 1997 : jan ullrich wins the tour de france dw-tv get an inside look at some of germany 's more unusual companies .
flying the german flag - costly voyages for shipping companies captains in the classroom - rostock 's maritime school organbuilding - the art and craft of the perfect sound saving makes cents – new heating technology for industry © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german language lover on quest to save " chinglish " -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 28.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle music art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de from the fringe -pipe- 07.05.2009 german language lover on quest to save " chinglish " großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : just one of the thousands of examples to be found in china a german multimedia producer is working hard to preserve chinglish – china 's special version of english – for future generations . for 32-year-old oliver radtke , his fascination with chinglish began in 2000 , when he noticed a sign while in a shanghai taxi : " do n't forget to carry your thing , " it said .
since then , he has published two books on the subject . most recently , " more chinglish - speaking in tongues , " which hit shelves in april . he also maintains a popular online blog .
there is a view held by many in china , and not least by the authorities , that chinglish is an embarrassment that must be wiped out at all costs .
radtke disagrees .
he says the " language " should be preserved .
" there is a lot in chinglish that is so much more than just incompetent english or incorrect english , " he said .
" a lot of the chinglish signs carry a certain chinese notion in them which enriches the english language and makes english more chinese in the sense that there is a certain chinese flavor , a certain chinese way of thinking . "
radtke focuses on written examples of the lingo on signboards , menu cards and shop fronts .
some signs highlighted in his books are decidedly politically incorrect - " cripple 's lane , " rather than " wheelchair path , " or " deformed man toilet , " instead of " handicapped restroom . "
others are more poetic , such as one sign reminding visitors to one section of the great wall of china to be careful : " do not forget the fire is heartless . "
chinese citizens warming to " chinglish " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : oliver 's book " welcome to presence " " the initial reaction of many chinese users was very much against the project .
they thought i was making fun of them , " radtke said .
but he says the chinese are increasingly supportive of his efforts , and many have come to understand that he believes chinglish is in fact enriching the english language .
radtke , as a german , believes the entire notion of one single , standard version of english is outdated because it now has far more than one billion regular users worldwide , and a rapidly growing number speak it as their second language .
in recent years , china has kicked off campaigns to root out poor english grammar and misused vocabulary in official usage .
much to radtke 's horror , the most famous of these drives took place in beijing prior to the olympic games in august last year .
during that time , authorities rechristened the dongda proctology hospital , formerly the dongda anus hospital .
however radtke maintains these campaigns will never fully succeed .
he 's optimistic that chinglish will never disappear from the mainstream .
" i 'm pessimistic when it comes to official signs in the big cities .
but restaurants , companies , private institutions , small shop owners will all produce a lot of chinglish , " he says . cg , dfm afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de eu to english speakers : put your mouth where the money is the european union wants native english speakers to put their mouths where the money is : translation work .
the bloc , which has 23 official languages , is sending out an urgent youtube plea for more english translators .
-lrb- 19.02.2009 -rrb- immigrants help create new type of german language in multicultural urban areas of germany , a new variant of german has evolved with its own grammar and rhythm .
this ethnolect is spoken among young migrants of various ethnic backgrounds as well as young native germans .
-lrb- 08.12.2007 -rrb- wanderlust sends german words traveling what do autobahn , fest , flugelhorn , angst and gesundheit all have in common ?
you guessed it : they all come from the language of goethe , thomas mann and rammstein .
you know more german words than you think you do .
-lrb- 08.08.2006 -rrb- 9800 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
twitter follow dw culture keep up on europe 's culture and lifestyle scene .
feature scorpions on tour a legendary rock band is calling it quits and dw joins them on their final tour .
recent picture galleries bayreuth and the wagner family the color master : photos by joel sternfeld summer sunglasses car fetish exhibition berlin fashion week day of the kiss ai weiwei , the photographer podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's free podcast series .
meet story-teller and guitarist max prosa ' german pop ' homepage podcast series traveling on a budget ?
dw presents shoestring guides to european cities .
get all the episodes subscribe on itunes get the rss feed word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
view from my window radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
soundscape 100 concert hour arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german language lover on quest to save " chinglish " -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 19.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de from the fringe -pipe- 07.05.2009 german language lover on quest to save " chinglish " großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : just one of the thousands of examples to be found in china a german multimedia producer is working hard to preserve chinglish – china 's special version of english – for future generations . for 32-year-old oliver radtke , his fascination with chinglish began in 2000 , when he noticed a sign while in a shanghai taxi : " do n't forget to carry your thing , " it said .
since then , he has published two books on the subject . most recently , " more chinglish - speaking in tongues , " which hit shelves in april . he also maintains a popular online blog .
there is a view held by many in china , and not least by the authorities , that chinglish is an embarrassment that must be wiped out at all costs .
radtke disagrees .
he says the " language " should be preserved .
" there is a lot in chinglish that is so much more than just incompetent english or incorrect english , " he said .
" a lot of the chinglish signs carry a certain chinese notion in them which enriches the english language and makes english more chinese in the sense that there is a certain chinese flavor , a certain chinese way of thinking . "
radtke focuses on written examples of the lingo on signboards , menu cards and shop fronts .
some signs highlighted in his books are decidedly politically incorrect - " cripple 's lane , " rather than " wheelchair path , " or " deformed man toilet , " instead of " handicapped restroom . "
others are more poetic , such as one sign reminding visitors to one section of the great wall of china to be careful : " do not forget the fire is heartless . "
chinese citizens warming to " chinglish " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : oliver 's book " welcome to presence " " the initial reaction of many chinese users was very much against the project .
they thought i was making fun of them , " radtke said .
but he says the chinese are increasingly supportive of his efforts , and many have come to understand that he believes chinglish is in fact enriching the english language .
radtke , as a german , believes the entire notion of one single , standard version of english is outdated because it now has far more than one billion regular users worldwide , and a rapidly growing number speak it as their second language .
in recent years , china has kicked off campaigns to root out poor english grammar and misused vocabulary in official usage .
much to radtke 's horror , the most famous of these drives took place in beijing prior to the olympic games in august last year .
during that time , authorities rechristened the dongda proctology hospital , formerly the dongda anus hospital .
however radtke maintains these campaigns will never fully succeed .
he 's optimistic that chinglish will never disappear from the mainstream .
" i 'm pessimistic when it comes to official signs in the big cities .
but restaurants , companies , private institutions , small shop owners will all produce a lot of chinglish , " he says . cg , dfm afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de eu to english speakers : put your mouth where the money is the european union wants native english speakers to put their mouths where the money is : translation work .
the bloc , which has 23 official languages , is sending out an urgent youtube plea for more english translators .
-lrb- 19.02.2009 -rrb- immigrants help create new type of german language in multicultural urban areas of germany , a new variant of german has evolved with its own grammar and rhythm .
this ethnolect is spoken among young migrants of various ethnic backgrounds as well as young native germans .
-lrb- 08.12.2007 -rrb- wanderlust sends german words traveling what do autobahn , fest , flugelhorn , angst and gesundheit all have in common ?
you guessed it : they all come from the language of goethe , thomas mann and rammstein .
you know more german words than you think you do .
-lrb- 08.08.2006 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 dw-tv europe live in focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live living in germany listen live culture calendar october happenings from music and art to film and dance - find out what 's going on in germany 's cultural scene .
music dw presents podcasts of performances by top artists at the 2010 beethovenfest .
podcasts on itunes more on beethoven podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's new free podcast .
clip no. 1 - luis und laserpower clip no. 2 - abel & cain clip no. 3 - baby benzin clip no. 4 - the intersphere clip no. 5 - shantel clip no. 6 - klee subscribe on itunes get the rss feed word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
hits in germany concert hour music this week arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german language lover on quest to save " chinglish " -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 03.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de from the fringe -pipe- 07.05.2009 german language lover on quest to save " chinglish " großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : just one of the thousands of examples to be found in china a german multimedia producer is working hard to preserve chinglish – china 's special version of english – for future generations . for 32-year-old oliver radtke , his fascination with chinglish began in 2000 , when he noticed a sign while in a shanghai taxi : " do n't forget to carry your thing , " it said .
since then , he has published two books on the subject . most recently , " more chinglish - speaking in tongues , " which hit shelves in april . he also maintains a popular online blog .
there is a view held by many in china , and not least by the authorities , that chinglish is an embarrassment that must be wiped out at all costs .
radtke disagrees .
he says the " language " should be preserved .
" there is a lot in chinglish that is so much more than just incompetent english or incorrect english , " he said .
" a lot of the chinglish signs carry a certain chinese notion in them which enriches the english language and makes english more chinese in the sense that there is a certain chinese flavor , a certain chinese way of thinking . "
radtke focuses on written examples of the lingo on signboards , menu cards and shop fronts .
some signs highlighted in his books are decidedly politically incorrect - " cripple 's lane , " rather than " wheelchair path , " or " deformed man toilet , " instead of " handicapped restroom . "
others are more poetic , such as one sign reminding visitors to one section of the great wall of china to be careful : " do not forget the fire is heartless . "
chinese citizens warming to " chinglish " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : oliver 's book " welcome to presence " " the initial reaction of many chinese users was very much against the project .
they thought i was making fun of them , " radtke said .
but he says the chinese are increasingly supportive of his efforts , and many have come to understand that he believes chinglish is in fact enriching the english language .
radtke , as a german , believes the entire notion of one single , standard version of english is outdated because it now has far more than one billion regular users worldwide , and a rapidly growing number speak it as their second language .
in recent years , china has kicked off campaigns to root out poor english grammar and misused vocabulary in official usage .
much to radtke 's horror , the most famous of these drives took place in beijing prior to the olympic games in august last year .
during that time , authorities rechristened the dongda proctology hospital , formerly the dongda anus hospital .
however radtke maintains these campaigns will never fully succeed .
he 's optimistic that chinglish will never disappear from the mainstream .
" i 'm pessimistic when it comes to official signs in the big cities .
but restaurants , companies , private institutions , small shop owners will all produce a lot of chinglish , " he says . cg , dfm afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de eu to english speakers : put your mouth where the money is the european union wants native english speakers to put their mouths where the money is : translation work .
the bloc , which has 23 official languages , is sending out an urgent youtube plea for more english translators .
-lrb- 19.02.2009 -rrb- immigrants help create new type of german language in multicultural urban areas of germany , a new variant of german has evolved with its own grammar and rhythm .
this ethnolect is spoken among young migrants of various ethnic backgrounds as well as young native germans .
-lrb- 08.12.2007 -rrb- wanderlust sends german words traveling what do autobahn , fest , flugelhorn , angst and gesundheit all have in common ?
you guessed it : they all come from the language of goethe , thomas mann and rammstein .
you know more german words than you think you do .
-lrb- 08.08.2006 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
art meet several artists who live in a small world and miniaturize their work .
the filmmaker the model builder the engraver the painter the photographer podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's new free podcast .
' clip ' homepage clip no. 10 - 1000 robota with a new take on punk subscribe on itunes get the rss feed word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
soundscape 100 concert hour arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth news quiz test your knowledge with the news quiz ! © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german language lover on quest to save " chinglish " -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 24.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de from the fringe -pipe- 07.05.2009 german language lover on quest to save " chinglish " großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : just one of the thousands of examples to be found in china a german multimedia producer is working hard to preserve chinglish – china 's special version of english – for future generations . for 32-year-old oliver radtke , his fascination with chinglish began in 2000 , when he noticed a sign while in a shanghai taxi : " do n't forget to carry your thing , " it said .
since then , he has published two books on the subject . most recently , " more chinglish - speaking in tongues , " which hit shelves in april . he also maintains a popular online blog .
there is a view held by many in china , and not least by the authorities , that chinglish is an embarrassment that must be wiped out at all costs .
radtke disagrees .
he says the " language " should be preserved .
" there is a lot in chinglish that is so much more than just incompetent english or incorrect english , " he said .
" a lot of the chinglish signs carry a certain chinese notion in them which enriches the english language and makes english more chinese in the sense that there is a certain chinese flavor , a certain chinese way of thinking . "
radtke focuses on written examples of the lingo on signboards , menu cards and shop fronts .
some signs highlighted in his books are decidedly politically incorrect - " cripple 's lane , " rather than " wheelchair path , " or " deformed man toilet , " instead of " handicapped restroom . "
others are more poetic , such as one sign reminding visitors to one section of the great wall of china to be careful : " do not forget the fire is heartless . "
chinese citizens warming to " chinglish " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : oliver 's book " welcome to presence " " the initial reaction of many chinese users was very much against the project .
they thought i was making fun of them , " radtke said .
but he says the chinese are increasingly supportive of his efforts , and many have come to understand that he believes chinglish is in fact enriching the english language .
radtke , as a german , believes the entire notion of one single , standard version of english is outdated because it now has far more than one billion regular users worldwide , and a rapidly growing number speak it as their second language .
in recent years , china has kicked off campaigns to root out poor english grammar and misused vocabulary in official usage .
much to radtke 's horror , the most famous of these drives took place in beijing prior to the olympic games in august last year .
during that time , authorities rechristened the dongda proctology hospital , formerly the dongda anus hospital .
however radtke maintains these campaigns will never fully succeed .
he 's optimistic that chinglish will never disappear from the mainstream .
" i 'm pessimistic when it comes to official signs in the big cities .
but restaurants , companies , private institutions , small shop owners will all produce a lot of chinglish , " he says . cg , dfm afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de eu to english speakers : put your mouth where the money is the european union wants native english speakers to put their mouths where the money is : translation work .
the bloc , which has 23 official languages , is sending out an urgent youtube plea for more english translators .
-lrb- 19.02.2009 -rrb- immigrants help create new type of german language in multicultural urban areas of germany , a new variant of german has evolved with its own grammar and rhythm .
this ethnolect is spoken among young migrants of various ethnic backgrounds as well as young native germans .
-lrb- 08.12.2007 -rrb- wanderlust sends german words traveling what do autobahn , fest , flugelhorn , angst and gesundheit all have in common ?
you guessed it : they all come from the language of goethe , thomas mann and rammstein .
you know more german words than you think you do .
-lrb- 08.08.2006 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's new free podcast .
' clip ' homepage clip no. 6 - klee clip no. 7 - einshoch6 clip no. 8 - johannes stankowski clip no. 9 - the bonny situation subscribe on itunes get the rss feed word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
hits in germany concert hour music this week arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth music dw presents podcasts of performances by top artists at the 2010 beethovenfest .
podcasts on itunes more on beethoven news quiz test your knowledge with the news quiz ! © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german language lover on quest to save " chinglish " -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 07.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle music art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de from the fringe -pipe- 07.05.2009 german language lover on quest to save " chinglish " großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : just one of the thousands of examples to be found in china a german multimedia producer is working hard to preserve chinglish – china 's special version of english – for future generations . for 32-year-old oliver radtke , his fascination with chinglish began in 2000 , when he noticed a sign while in a shanghai taxi : " do n't forget to carry your thing , " it said .
since then , he has published two books on the subject . most recently , " more chinglish - speaking in tongues , " which hit shelves in april . he also maintains a popular online blog .
there is a view held by many in china , and not least by the authorities , that chinglish is an embarrassment that must be wiped out at all costs .
radtke disagrees .
he says the " language " should be preserved .
" there is a lot in chinglish that is so much more than just incompetent english or incorrect english , " he said .
" a lot of the chinglish signs carry a certain chinese notion in them which enriches the english language and makes english more chinese in the sense that there is a certain chinese flavor , a certain chinese way of thinking . "
radtke focuses on written examples of the lingo on signboards , menu cards and shop fronts .
some signs highlighted in his books are decidedly politically incorrect - " cripple 's lane , " rather than " wheelchair path , " or " deformed man toilet , " instead of " handicapped restroom . "
others are more poetic , such as one sign reminding visitors to one section of the great wall of china to be careful : " do not forget the fire is heartless . "
chinese citizens warming to " chinglish " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : oliver 's book " welcome to presence " " the initial reaction of many chinese users was very much against the project .
they thought i was making fun of them , " radtke said .
but he says the chinese are increasingly supportive of his efforts , and many have come to understand that he believes chinglish is in fact enriching the english language .
radtke , as a german , believes the entire notion of one single , standard version of english is outdated because it now has far more than one billion regular users worldwide , and a rapidly growing number speak it as their second language .
in recent years , china has kicked off campaigns to root out poor english grammar and misused vocabulary in official usage .
much to radtke 's horror , the most famous of these drives took place in beijing prior to the olympic games in august last year .
during that time , authorities rechristened the dongda proctology hospital , formerly the dongda anus hospital .
however radtke maintains these campaigns will never fully succeed .
he 's optimistic that chinglish will never disappear from the mainstream .
" i 'm pessimistic when it comes to official signs in the big cities .
but restaurants , companies , private institutions , small shop owners will all produce a lot of chinglish , " he says . cg , dfm afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de eu to english speakers : put your mouth where the money is the european union wants native english speakers to put their mouths where the money is : translation work .
the bloc , which has 23 official languages , is sending out an urgent youtube plea for more english translators .
-lrb- 19.02.2009 -rrb- immigrants help create new type of german language in multicultural urban areas of germany , a new variant of german has evolved with its own grammar and rhythm .
this ethnolect is spoken among young migrants of various ethnic backgrounds as well as young native germans .
-lrb- 08.12.2007 -rrb- wanderlust sends german words traveling what do autobahn , fest , flugelhorn , angst and gesundheit all have in common ?
you guessed it : they all come from the language of goethe , thomas mann and rammstein .
you know more german words than you think you do .
-lrb- 08.08.2006 -rrb- 9800 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
twitter follow dw culture keep up on europe 's culture and lifestyle scene .
travel take a close-up look at some of europe 's most exciting cities .
bern , switzerland freiburg , germany jerez de la frontera , spain oxford , britain bordeaux , france dw-tv : euromaxx cuisine get a taste of europe with these gourmet recipes .
swedish crispbread saddle of rabbit with asparagus risotto rutabaga soup dumplings with meat filling sweet-savory pheasant from leeds dw-tv : euromaxx podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's new free podcast .
' clip ' homepage clip no. 12 - favorite alt-rockers ja , panik are back subscribe on itunes get the rss feed word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
soundscape 100 concert hour arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german language lover on quest to save " chinglish " -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 02.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de from the fringe -pipe- 07.05.2009 german language lover on quest to save " chinglish " großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : just one of the thousands of examples to be found in china a german multimedia producer is working hard to preserve chinglish – china 's special version of english – for future generations . for 32-year-old oliver radtke , his fascination with chinglish began in 2000 , when he noticed a sign while in a shanghai taxi : " do n't forget to carry your thing , " it said .
since then , he has published two books on the subject . most recently , " more chinglish - speaking in tongues , " which hit shelves in april . he also maintains a popular online blog .
there is a view held by many in china , and not least by the authorities , that chinglish is an embarrassment that must be wiped out at all costs .
radtke disagrees .
he says the " language " should be preserved .
" there is a lot in chinglish that is so much more than just incompetent english or incorrect english , " he said .
" a lot of the chinglish signs carry a certain chinese notion in them which enriches the english language and makes english more chinese in the sense that there is a certain chinese flavor , a certain chinese way of thinking . "
radtke focuses on written examples of the lingo on signboards , menu cards and shop fronts .
some signs highlighted in his books are decidedly politically incorrect - " cripple 's lane , " rather than " wheelchair path , " or " deformed man toilet , " instead of " handicapped restroom . "
others are more poetic , such as one sign reminding visitors to one section of the great wall of china to be careful : " do not forget the fire is heartless . "
chinese citizens warming to " chinglish " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : oliver 's book " welcome to presence " " the initial reaction of many chinese users was very much against the project .
they thought i was making fun of them , " radtke said .
but he says the chinese are increasingly supportive of his efforts , and many have come to understand that he believes chinglish is in fact enriching the english language .
radtke , as a german , believes the entire notion of one single , standard version of english is outdated because it now has far more than one billion regular users worldwide , and a rapidly growing number speak it as their second language .
in recent years , china has kicked off campaigns to root out poor english grammar and misused vocabulary in official usage .
much to radtke 's horror , the most famous of these drives took place in beijing prior to the olympic games in august last year .
during that time , authorities rechristened the dongda proctology hospital , formerly the dongda anus hospital .
however radtke maintains these campaigns will never fully succeed .
he 's optimistic that chinglish will never disappear from the mainstream .
" i 'm pessimistic when it comes to official signs in the big cities .
but restaurants , companies , private institutions , small shop owners will all produce a lot of chinglish , " he says . cg , dfm afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de eu to english speakers : put your mouth where the money is the european union wants native english speakers to put their mouths where the money is : translation work .
the bloc , which has 23 official languages , is sending out an urgent youtube plea for more english translators .
-lrb- 19.02.2009 -rrb- immigrants help create new type of german language in multicultural urban areas of germany , a new variant of german has evolved with its own grammar and rhythm .
this ethnolect is spoken among young migrants of various ethnic backgrounds as well as young native germans .
-lrb- 08.12.2007 -rrb- wanderlust sends german words traveling what do autobahn , fest , flugelhorn , angst and gesundheit all have in common ?
you guessed it : they all come from the language of goethe , thomas mann and rammstein .
you know more german words than you think you do .
-lrb- 08.08.2006 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
picture gallery christmas markets holiday cheer ís easy to come by during the advent season in germany .
podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's new free podcast .
' clip ' homepage clip no. 3 - baby benzin clip no. 4 - the intersphere clip no. 5 - shantel clip no. 6 - klee clip no. 7 - einshoch6 subscribe on itunes get the rss feed word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
hits in germany concert hour music this week arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth music dw presents podcasts of performances by top artists at the 2010 beethovenfest .
podcasts on itunes more on beethoven © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german language lover on quest to save " chinglish " -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 16.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de from the fringe -pipe- 07.05.2009 german language lover on quest to save " chinglish " großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : just one of the thousands of examples to be found in china a german multimedia producer is working hard to preserve chinglish – china 's special version of english – for future generations . for 32-year-old oliver radtke , his fascination with chinglish began in 2000 , when he noticed a sign while in a shanghai taxi : " do n't forget to carry your thing , " it said .
since then , he has published two books on the subject . most recently , " more chinglish - speaking in tongues , " which hit shelves in april . he also maintains a popular online blog .
there is a view held by many in china , and not least by the authorities , that chinglish is an embarrassment that must be wiped out at all costs .
radtke disagrees .
he says the " language " should be preserved .
" there is a lot in chinglish that is so much more than just incompetent english or incorrect english , " he said .
" a lot of the chinglish signs carry a certain chinese notion in them which enriches the english language and makes english more chinese in the sense that there is a certain chinese flavor , a certain chinese way of thinking . "
radtke focuses on written examples of the lingo on signboards , menu cards and shop fronts .
some signs highlighted in his books are decidedly politically incorrect - " cripple 's lane , " rather than " wheelchair path , " or " deformed man toilet , " instead of " handicapped restroom . "
others are more poetic , such as one sign reminding visitors to one section of the great wall of china to be careful : " do not forget the fire is heartless . "
chinese citizens warming to " chinglish " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : oliver 's book " welcome to presence " " the initial reaction of many chinese users was very much against the project .
they thought i was making fun of them , " radtke said .
but he says the chinese are increasingly supportive of his efforts , and many have come to understand that he believes chinglish is in fact enriching the english language .
radtke , as a german , believes the entire notion of one single , standard version of english is outdated because it now has far more than one billion regular users worldwide , and a rapidly growing number speak it as their second language .
in recent years , china has kicked off campaigns to root out poor english grammar and misused vocabulary in official usage .
much to radtke 's horror , the most famous of these drives took place in beijing prior to the olympic games in august last year .
during that time , authorities rechristened the dongda proctology hospital , formerly the dongda anus hospital .
however radtke maintains these campaigns will never fully succeed .
he 's optimistic that chinglish will never disappear from the mainstream .
" i 'm pessimistic when it comes to official signs in the big cities .
but restaurants , companies , private institutions , small shop owners will all produce a lot of chinglish , " he says . cg , dfm afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de eu to english speakers : put your mouth where the money is the european union wants native english speakers to put their mouths where the money is : translation work .
the bloc , which has 23 official languages , is sending out an urgent youtube plea for more english translators .
-lrb- 19.02.2009 -rrb- immigrants help create new type of german language in multicultural urban areas of germany , a new variant of german has evolved with its own grammar and rhythm .
this ethnolect is spoken among young migrants of various ethnic backgrounds as well as young native germans .
-lrb- 08.12.2007 -rrb- wanderlust sends german words traveling what do autobahn , fest , flugelhorn , angst and gesundheit all have in common ?
you guessed it : they all come from the language of goethe , thomas mann and rammstein .
you know more german words than you think you do .
-lrb- 08.08.2006 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 dw-tv europe live in good shape we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live living planet environment matters from around the world listen live picture gallery fat and felt nearly 25 years after his death , joseph beuys is remembered for his broad view of art .
travel explore some of germany 's most spectacular historic castles .
marksburg albrechtsburg castle hohenzollern castle dw-tv : euromaxx podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's new free podcast .
clip no. 1 - luis und laserpower clip no. 2 - abel & cain clip no. 3 - baby benzin clip no. 4 - the intersphere subscribe on itunes get the rss feed word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
hits in germany concert hour music this week arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
berlin holds 47 percent of troubled hypo real estate -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de economy -pipe- 07.05.2009 berlin holds 47 percent of troubled hypo real estate großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : berlin 's buy up of shares has given the green light to nationalization the german government has announced it now holds more than 47 percent of the mortgage lender , hypo real estate , following its decision to take over the troubled lender . the government 's financial market stabilization fund , soffin , now holds a 47.31 percent share of munich-based hre , after the government 's bid to buy up shareholders ' stock .
the government 's offer , worth 290 million euros -lrb- $ 386 million -rrb- , expired at midnight monday .
each share had a cash offer of 1.39 euros .
in berlin , finance minister peer steinbrueck said he was pleased with the results of the share buy offer .
" this now means the government can continue with the planned takeover of hre shares , according to stock corporation law , " he said .
" only with the complete government takeover can hre 's survival be ensured and the taxpayers ' interests protected , " steinbrueck added . despite the fact that berlin failed to come up with 50 percent of shares , steinbrueck said that soffin could complete a takeover of the firm through means made available by german shareholder law .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : soffin 's rehm says hypo needs to be rescued to ensure the stabilty of germany 's economy hannes rehm , chairman of the soffin management committee , is optimistic that will happen : " we will consistently pursue our efforts to stabilize hre , " he said .
" the bank is of systemic relevance and must be rescued in order to ensure stability of the financial markets and the german economy .
i expect the envisaged capital increase to be approved by the extraordinary general meeting , " he added .
a capital increase is a type of equity issuance in which new stocks are offered for sale .
hre shareholders have been invited to the extraordinary general meeting on june 2 .
at the meeting , soffin will subscribe all of the new shares , excluding subscription rights of the shareholders .
this will give it a majority of 90 percent , as well as voting rights .
that will pave the way for a takeover of the shares held by the remaining minority shareholders - through a so-called " squeeze-out " procedure .
soffin does not expect the price to exceed the original offer price of 1.39 euros per share .
us private equity firm jc flowers & co , which rejects the government 's plans , still owns about 14 percent of hre . cg / rm , reuters / dp / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de nationalization is on the horizon for beleagered hypo real estate bank the german government has invested more than 100 billion euros in ailing mortgage lender hypo real estate bank to ensure it does n't collapse - now it wants total control .
-lrb- 05.05.2009 -rrb- hre to post more losses , takeover deadline looms as the german government and a us investment group battle over shares in the hypo real estate bank , it seems the struggling lender is still losing money .
-lrb- 04.05.2009 -rrb- flowers rejects government takeover bid for hre a major legal battle for the ownership of german bank hypo real estate is looming after a major investor rejected a bid from the german government .
-lrb- 30.04.2009 -rrb- 9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live im focus - dokumentationen und reportagen we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive. tourism germany 's north sea coast boasts some of the longest and most attractive beaches in europe .
watch the video dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
berlin holds 47 percent of troubled hypo real estate -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.10.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de economy -pipe- 07.05.2009 berlin holds 47 percent of troubled hypo real estate großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : berlin 's buy up of shares has given the green light to nationalization the german government has announced it now holds more than 47 percent of the mortgage lender , hypo real estate , following its decision to take over the troubled lender . the government 's financial market stabilization fund , soffin , now holds a 47.31 percent share of munich-based hre , after the government 's bid to buy up shareholders ' stock .
the government 's offer , worth 290 million euros -lrb- $ 386 million -rrb- , expired at midnight monday .
each share had a cash offer of 1.39 euros .
in berlin , finance minister peer steinbrueck said he was pleased with the results of the share buy offer .
" this now means the government can continue with the planned takeover of hre shares , according to stock corporation law , " he said .
" only with the complete government takeover can hre 's survival be ensured and the taxpayers ' interests protected , " steinbrueck added . despite the fact that berlin failed to come up with 50 percent of shares , steinbrueck said that soffin could complete a takeover of the firm through means made available by german shareholder law .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : soffin 's rehm says hypo needs to be rescued to ensure the stabilty of germany 's economy hannes rehm , chairman of the soffin management committee , is optimistic that will happen : " we will consistently pursue our efforts to stabilize hre , " he said .
" the bank is of systemic relevance and must be rescued in order to ensure stability of the financial markets and the german economy .
i expect the envisaged capital increase to be approved by the extraordinary general meeting , " he added .
a capital increase is a type of equity issuance in which new stocks are offered for sale .
hre shareholders have been invited to the extraordinary general meeting on june 2 .
at the meeting , soffin will subscribe all of the new shares , excluding subscription rights of the shareholders .
this will give it a majority of 90 percent , as well as voting rights .
that will pave the way for a takeover of the shares held by the remaining minority shareholders - through a so-called " squeeze-out " procedure .
soffin does not expect the price to exceed the original offer price of 1.39 euros per share .
us private equity firm jc flowers & co , which rejects the government 's plans , still owns about 14 percent of hre . cg / rm , reuters / dp / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de nationalization is on the horizon for beleagered hypo real estate bank the german government has invested more than 100 billion euros in ailing mortgage lender hypo real estate bank to ensure it does n't collapse - now it wants total control .
-lrb- 05.05.2009 -rrb- hre to post more losses , takeover deadline looms as the german government and a us investment group battle over shares in the hypo real estate bank , it seems the struggling lender is still losing money .
-lrb- 04.05.2009 -rrb- flowers rejects government takeover bid for hre a major legal battle for the ownership of german bank hypo real estate is looming after a major investor rejected a bid from the german government .
-lrb- 30.04.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live im focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
berlin holds 47 percent of troubled hypo real estate -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.09.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de economy -pipe- 07.05.2009 berlin holds 47 percent of troubled hypo real estate großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : berlin 's buy up of shares has given the green light to nationalization the german government has announced it now holds more than 47 percent of the mortgage lender , hypo real estate , following its decision to take over the troubled lender . the government 's financial market stabilization fund , soffin , now holds a 47.31 percent share of munich-based hre , after the government 's bid to buy up shareholders ' stock .
the government 's offer , worth 290 million euros -lrb- $ 386 million -rrb- , expired at midnight monday .
each share had a cash offer of 1.39 euros .
in berlin , finance minister peer steinbrueck said he was pleased with the results of the share buy offer .
" this now means the government can continue with the planned takeover of hre shares , according to stock corporation law , " he said .
" only with the complete government takeover can hre 's survival be ensured and the taxpayers ' interests protected , " steinbrueck added . despite the fact that berlin failed to come up with 50 percent of shares , steinbrueck said that soffin could complete a takeover of the firm through means made available by german shareholder law .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : soffin 's rehm says hypo needs to be rescued to ensure the stabilty of germany 's economy hannes rehm , chairman of the soffin management committee , is optimistic that will happen : " we will consistently pursue our efforts to stabilize hre , " he said .
" the bank is of systemic relevance and must be rescued in order to ensure stability of the financial markets and the german economy .
i expect the envisaged capital increase to be approved by the extraordinary general meeting , " he added .
a capital increase is a type of equity issuance in which new stocks are offered for sale .
hre shareholders have been invited to the extraordinary general meeting on june 2 .
at the meeting , soffin will subscribe all of the new shares , excluding subscription rights of the shareholders .
this will give it a majority of 90 percent , as well as voting rights .
that will pave the way for a takeover of the shares held by the remaining minority shareholders - through a so-called " squeeze-out " procedure .
soffin does not expect the price to exceed the original offer price of 1.39 euros per share .
us private equity firm jc flowers & co , which rejects the government 's plans , still owns about 14 percent of hre . cg / rm , reuters / dp / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de nationalization is on the horizon for beleagered hypo real estate bank the german government has invested more than 100 billion euros in ailing mortgage lender hypo real estate bank to ensure it does n't collapse - now it wants total control .
-lrb- 05.05.2009 -rrb- hre to post more losses , takeover deadline looms as the german government and a us investment group battle over shares in the hypo real estate bank , it seems the struggling lender is still losing money .
-lrb- 04.05.2009 -rrb- flowers rejects government takeover bid for hre a major legal battle for the ownership of german bank hypo real estate is looming after a major investor rejected a bid from the german government .
-lrb- 30.04.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inside europe listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
berlin holds 47 percent of troubled hypo real estate -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 02.04.2011 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de economy -pipe- 07.05.2009 berlin holds 47 percent of troubled hypo real estate großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : berlin 's buy up of shares has given the green light to nationalization the german government has announced it now holds more than 47 percent of the mortgage lender , hypo real estate , following its decision to take over the troubled lender . the government 's financial market stabilization fund , soffin , now holds a 47.31 percent share of munich-based hre , after the government 's bid to buy up shareholders ' stock .
the government 's offer , worth 290 million euros -lrb- $ 386 million -rrb- , expired at midnight monday .
each share had a cash offer of 1.39 euros .
in berlin , finance minister peer steinbrueck said he was pleased with the results of the share buy offer .
" this now means the government can continue with the planned takeover of hre shares , according to stock corporation law , " he said .
" only with the complete government takeover can hre 's survival be ensured and the taxpayers ' interests protected , " steinbrueck added . despite the fact that berlin failed to come up with 50 percent of shares , steinbrueck said that soffin could complete a takeover of the firm through means made available by german shareholder law .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : soffin 's rehm says hypo needs to be rescued to ensure the stabilty of germany 's economy hannes rehm , chairman of the soffin management committee , is optimistic that will happen : " we will consistently pursue our efforts to stabilize hre , " he said .
" the bank is of systemic relevance and must be rescued in order to ensure stability of the financial markets and the german economy .
i expect the envisaged capital increase to be approved by the extraordinary general meeting , " he added .
a capital increase is a type of equity issuance in which new stocks are offered for sale .
hre shareholders have been invited to the extraordinary general meeting on june 2 .
at the meeting , soffin will subscribe all of the new shares , excluding subscription rights of the shareholders .
this will give it a majority of 90 percent , as well as voting rights .
that will pave the way for a takeover of the shares held by the remaining minority shareholders - through a so-called " squeeze-out " procedure .
soffin does not expect the price to exceed the original offer price of 1.39 euros per share .
us private equity firm jc flowers & co , which rejects the government 's plans , still owns about 14 percent of hre . cg / rm , reuters / dp / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de nationalization is on the horizon for beleagered hypo real estate bank the german government has invested more than 100 billion euros in ailing mortgage lender hypo real estate bank to ensure it does n't collapse - now it wants total control .
-lrb- 05.05.2009 -rrb- hre to post more losses , takeover deadline looms as the german government and a us investment group battle over shares in the hypo real estate bank , it seems the struggling lender is still losing money .
-lrb- 04.05.2009 -rrb- flowers rejects government takeover bid for hre a major legal battle for the ownership of german bank hypo real estate is looming after a major investor rejected a bid from the german government .
-lrb- 30.04.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live quadriga we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inside europe listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
berlin holds 47 percent of troubled hypo real estate -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 23.01.2011 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de economy -pipe- 07.05.2009 berlin holds 47 percent of troubled hypo real estate großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : berlin 's buy up of shares has given the green light to nationalization the german government has announced it now holds more than 47 percent of the mortgage lender , hypo real estate , following its decision to take over the troubled lender . the government 's financial market stabilization fund , soffin , now holds a 47.31 percent share of munich-based hre , after the government 's bid to buy up shareholders ' stock .
the government 's offer , worth 290 million euros -lrb- $ 386 million -rrb- , expired at midnight monday .
each share had a cash offer of 1.39 euros .
in berlin , finance minister peer steinbrueck said he was pleased with the results of the share buy offer .
" this now means the government can continue with the planned takeover of hre shares , according to stock corporation law , " he said .
" only with the complete government takeover can hre 's survival be ensured and the taxpayers ' interests protected , " steinbrueck added . despite the fact that berlin failed to come up with 50 percent of shares , steinbrueck said that soffin could complete a takeover of the firm through means made available by german shareholder law .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : soffin 's rehm says hypo needs to be rescued to ensure the stabilty of germany 's economy hannes rehm , chairman of the soffin management committee , is optimistic that will happen : " we will consistently pursue our efforts to stabilize hre , " he said .
" the bank is of systemic relevance and must be rescued in order to ensure stability of the financial markets and the german economy .
i expect the envisaged capital increase to be approved by the extraordinary general meeting , " he added .
a capital increase is a type of equity issuance in which new stocks are offered for sale .
hre shareholders have been invited to the extraordinary general meeting on june 2 .
at the meeting , soffin will subscribe all of the new shares , excluding subscription rights of the shareholders .
this will give it a majority of 90 percent , as well as voting rights .
that will pave the way for a takeover of the shares held by the remaining minority shareholders - through a so-called " squeeze-out " procedure .
soffin does not expect the price to exceed the original offer price of 1.39 euros per share .
us private equity firm jc flowers & co , which rejects the government 's plans , still owns about 14 percent of hre . cg / rm , reuters / dp / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de nationalization is on the horizon for beleagered hypo real estate bank the german government has invested more than 100 billion euros in ailing mortgage lender hypo real estate bank to ensure it does n't collapse - now it wants total control .
-lrb- 05.05.2009 -rrb- hre to post more losses , takeover deadline looms as the german government and a us investment group battle over shares in the hypo real estate bank , it seems the struggling lender is still losing money .
-lrb- 04.05.2009 -rrb- flowers rejects government takeover bid for hre a major legal battle for the ownership of german bank hypo real estate is looming after a major investor rejected a bid from the german government .
-lrb- 30.04.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live in focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live concert hour listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
berlin holds 47 percent of troubled hypo real estate -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 01.12.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de economy -pipe- 07.05.2009 berlin holds 47 percent of troubled hypo real estate großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : berlin 's buy up of shares has given the green light to nationalization the german government has announced it now holds more than 47 percent of the mortgage lender , hypo real estate , following its decision to take over the troubled lender . the government 's financial market stabilization fund , soffin , now holds a 47.31 percent share of munich-based hre , after the government 's bid to buy up shareholders ' stock .
the government 's offer , worth 290 million euros -lrb- $ 386 million -rrb- , expired at midnight monday .
each share had a cash offer of 1.39 euros .
in berlin , finance minister peer steinbrueck said he was pleased with the results of the share buy offer .
" this now means the government can continue with the planned takeover of hre shares , according to stock corporation law , " he said .
" only with the complete government takeover can hre 's survival be ensured and the taxpayers ' interests protected , " steinbrueck added . despite the fact that berlin failed to come up with 50 percent of shares , steinbrueck said that soffin could complete a takeover of the firm through means made available by german shareholder law .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : soffin 's rehm says hypo needs to be rescued to ensure the stabilty of germany 's economy hannes rehm , chairman of the soffin management committee , is optimistic that will happen : " we will consistently pursue our efforts to stabilize hre , " he said .
" the bank is of systemic relevance and must be rescued in order to ensure stability of the financial markets and the german economy .
i expect the envisaged capital increase to be approved by the extraordinary general meeting , " he added .
a capital increase is a type of equity issuance in which new stocks are offered for sale .
hre shareholders have been invited to the extraordinary general meeting on june 2 .
at the meeting , soffin will subscribe all of the new shares , excluding subscription rights of the shareholders .
this will give it a majority of 90 percent , as well as voting rights .
that will pave the way for a takeover of the shares held by the remaining minority shareholders - through a so-called " squeeze-out " procedure .
soffin does not expect the price to exceed the original offer price of 1.39 euros per share .
us private equity firm jc flowers & co , which rejects the government 's plans , still owns about 14 percent of hre . cg / rm , reuters / dp / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de nationalization is on the horizon for beleagered hypo real estate bank the german government has invested more than 100 billion euros in ailing mortgage lender hypo real estate bank to ensure it does n't collapse - now it wants total control .
-lrb- 05.05.2009 -rrb- hre to post more losses , takeover deadline looms as the german government and a us investment group battle over shares in the hypo real estate bank , it seems the struggling lender is still losing money .
-lrb- 04.05.2009 -rrb- flowers rejects government takeover bid for hre a major legal battle for the ownership of german bank hypo real estate is looming after a major investor rejected a bid from the german government .
-lrb- 30.04.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
travel passau is called the three river city , but it is just as famous for its baroque splendor .
passau - baroque facades and vibrant arts watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
berlin holds 47 percent of troubled hypo real estate -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 06.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de economy -pipe- 07.05.2009 berlin holds 47 percent of troubled hypo real estate großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : berlin 's buy up of shares has given the green light to nationalization the german government has announced it now holds more than 47 percent of the mortgage lender , hypo real estate , following its decision to take over the troubled lender . the government 's financial market stabilization fund , soffin , now holds a 47.31 percent share of munich-based hre , after the government 's bid to buy up shareholders ' stock .
the government 's offer , worth 290 million euros -lrb- $ 386 million -rrb- , expired at midnight monday .
each share had a cash offer of 1.39 euros .
in berlin , finance minister peer steinbrueck said he was pleased with the results of the share buy offer .
" this now means the government can continue with the planned takeover of hre shares , according to stock corporation law , " he said .
" only with the complete government takeover can hre 's survival be ensured and the taxpayers ' interests protected , " steinbrueck added . despite the fact that berlin failed to come up with 50 percent of shares , steinbrueck said that soffin could complete a takeover of the firm through means made available by german shareholder law .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : soffin 's rehm says hypo needs to be rescued to ensure the stabilty of germany 's economy hannes rehm , chairman of the soffin management committee , is optimistic that will happen : " we will consistently pursue our efforts to stabilize hre , " he said .
" the bank is of systemic relevance and must be rescued in order to ensure stability of the financial markets and the german economy .
i expect the envisaged capital increase to be approved by the extraordinary general meeting , " he added .
a capital increase is a type of equity issuance in which new stocks are offered for sale .
hre shareholders have been invited to the extraordinary general meeting on june 2 .
at the meeting , soffin will subscribe all of the new shares , excluding subscription rights of the shareholders .
this will give it a majority of 90 percent , as well as voting rights .
that will pave the way for a takeover of the shares held by the remaining minority shareholders - through a so-called " squeeze-out " procedure .
soffin does not expect the price to exceed the original offer price of 1.39 euros per share .
us private equity firm jc flowers & co , which rejects the government 's plans , still owns about 14 percent of hre . cg / rm , reuters / dp / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de nationalization is on the horizon for beleagered hypo real estate bank the german government has invested more than 100 billion euros in ailing mortgage lender hypo real estate bank to ensure it does n't collapse - now it wants total control .
-lrb- 05.05.2009 -rrb- hre to post more losses , takeover deadline looms as the german government and a us investment group battle over shares in the hypo real estate bank , it seems the struggling lender is still losing money .
-lrb- 04.05.2009 -rrb- flowers rejects government takeover bid for hre a major legal battle for the ownership of german bank hypo real estate is looming after a major investor rejected a bid from the german government .
-lrb- 30.04.2009 -rrb- 9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
eu approves commerzbank bailout -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 26.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business 125 years automobile science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de banking -pipe- 07.05.2009 eu approves commerzbank bailout großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : commerzbank was the first german bank to tap into the government 's rescue fund brussels has approved an 18-billion-euro government bailout of germany ’ s second largest bank .
the eu had requested assurances that the money will not give the bank an unfair edge over competitors . part of the money is already on commerzbank 's balance sheets after berlin injected 8 billion euros -lrb- $ 10.6 billion -rrb- into the bank in december last year .
now , commerzbank stands to receive another 10 billion euros of fresh capital .
berlin however needed the approval of brussels and on thursday the eu commission gave its green light .
" on the basis of the notified plans , the commission is satisfied that commerzbank 's long term viability has been demonstrated , and that the aid is kept to the minimum and will not lead to undue distortions of competition .
it has therefore declared the aid compatible , " the eu executive said in a statement .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : frankfurt 's skyline of bank headquarters was rocked by the global finacial crisis but the government aid will be tied to strict restructuring conditions .
commerzbank will have to sell its eurohypo unit , a major european player in the real estate business .
in addition , the bank will be banned for three years from buying other financial institutes that it competes with .
commerzbank , which is germany 's second largest private bank with a balance sheet total of 1,100 billion euros of capital , ran into financial trouble as a result of the global credit crunch .
berlin has welcomed the decision from brussels .
a government spokeswoman said it was " an important step to strengthen the trust in the government 's bailout fund . "
in the wake of the global financial crisis , germany has created a 470-billion-euro rescue fund to support the struggling sector . ai / rm , dpa / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de conditions for commerzbank aid package appear to be set the european commission has set conditions for commerzbank to get an 18 billion euros -lrb- $ 23 billion -rrb- rescue package from the german government .
the bank is expected to shed its eurohypo unit .
-lrb- 22.04.2009 -rrb- german government takes large stake in commerzbank the german government has agreed to take a 25-percent share in commerzbank .
the move signals the first time the government has taken a stake in a major private bank and comes as commerzbank is set to buy dresdner bank .
-lrb- 09.01.2009 -rrb- merkel seeks to make bank bailouts more attractive germany 's rescue package for struggling banks may be in for a revamp to make it more appealing to financial institutions that have so far rejected it , german media reported tuesday .
-lrb- 02.12.2008 -rrb- 9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-tv europe live journal - news with in depth we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inspired minds listen live stock exchange today in history 1978 : first test-tube baby dw-tv get an inside look at some of germany 's more unusual companies .
flying the german flag - costly voyages for shipping companies captains in the classroom - rostock 's maritime school organbuilding - the art and craft of the perfect sound saving makes cents – new heating technology for industry © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
eu approves commerzbank bailout -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 31.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de banking -pipe- 07.05.2009 eu approves commerzbank bailout großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : commerzbank was the first german bank to tap into the government 's rescue fund brussels has approved an 18-billion-euro government bailout of germany ’ s second largest bank .
the eu had requested assurances that the money will not give the bank an unfair edge over competitors . part of the money is already on commerzbank 's balance sheets after berlin injected 8 billion euros -lrb- $ 10.6 billion -rrb- into the bank in december last year .
now , commerzbank stands to receive another 10 billion euros of fresh capital .
berlin however needed the approval of brussels and on thursday the eu commission gave its green light .
" on the basis of the notified plans , the commission is satisfied that commerzbank 's long term viability has been demonstrated , and that the aid is kept to the minimum and will not lead to undue distortions of competition .
it has therefore declared the aid compatible , " the eu executive said in a statement .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : frankfurt 's skyline of bank headquarters was rocked by the global finacial crisis but the government aid will be tied to strict restructuring conditions .
commerzbank will have to sell its eurohypo unit , a major european player in the real estate business .
in addition , the bank will be banned for three years from buying other financial institutes that it competes with .
commerzbank , which is germany 's second largest private bank with a balance sheet total of 1,100 billion euros of capital , ran into financial trouble as a result of the global credit crunch .
berlin has welcomed the decision from brussels .
a government spokeswoman said it was " an important step to strengthen the trust in the government 's bailout fund . "
in the wake of the global financial crisis , germany has created a 470-billion-euro rescue fund to support the struggling sector . ai / rm , dpa / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de conditions for commerzbank aid package appear to be set the european commission has set conditions for commerzbank to get an 18 billion euros -lrb- $ 23 billion -rrb- rescue package from the german government .
the bank is expected to shed its eurohypo unit .
-lrb- 22.04.2009 -rrb- german government takes large stake in commerzbank the german government has agreed to take a 25-percent share in commerzbank .
the move signals the first time the government has taken a stake in a major private bank and comes as commerzbank is set to buy dresdner bank .
-lrb- 09.01.2009 -rrb- merkel seeks to make bank bailouts more attractive germany 's rescue package for struggling banks may be in for a revamp to make it more appealing to financial institutions that have so far rejected it , german media reported tuesday .
-lrb- 02.12.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live in-box feedback from around the world listen live stock exchange today in history 1957 : first nuclear chain reaction in germany © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
eu approves commerzbank bailout -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 15.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de banking -pipe- 07.05.2009 eu approves commerzbank bailout großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : commerzbank was the first german bank to tap into the government 's rescue fund brussels has approved an 18-billion-euro government bailout of germany ’ s second largest bank .
the eu had requested assurances that the money will not give the bank an unfair edge over competitors . part of the money is already on commerzbank 's balance sheets after berlin injected 8 billion euros -lrb- $ 10.6 billion -rrb- into the bank in december last year .
now , commerzbank stands to receive another 10 billion euros of fresh capital .
berlin however needed the approval of brussels and on thursday the eu commission gave its green light .
" on the basis of the notified plans , the commission is satisfied that commerzbank 's long term viability has been demonstrated , and that the aid is kept to the minimum and will not lead to undue distortions of competition .
it has therefore declared the aid compatible , " the eu executive said in a statement .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : frankfurt 's skyline of bank headquarters was rocked by the global finacial crisis but the government aid will be tied to strict restructuring conditions .
commerzbank will have to sell its eurohypo unit , a major european player in the real estate business .
in addition , the bank will be banned for three years from buying other financial institutes that it competes with .
commerzbank , which is germany 's second largest private bank with a balance sheet total of 1,100 billion euros of capital , ran into financial trouble as a result of the global credit crunch .
berlin has welcomed the decision from brussels .
a government spokeswoman said it was " an important step to strengthen the trust in the government 's bailout fund . "
in the wake of the global financial crisis , germany has created a 470-billion-euro rescue fund to support the struggling sector . ai / rm , dpa / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de conditions for commerzbank aid package appear to be set the european commission has set conditions for commerzbank to get an 18 billion euros -lrb- $ 23 billion -rrb- rescue package from the german government .
the bank is expected to shed its eurohypo unit .
-lrb- 22.04.2009 -rrb- german government takes large stake in commerzbank the german government has agreed to take a 25-percent share in commerzbank .
the move signals the first time the government has taken a stake in a major private bank and comes as commerzbank is set to buy dresdner bank .
-lrb- 09.01.2009 -rrb- merkel seeks to make bank bailouts more attractive germany 's rescue package for struggling banks may be in for a revamp to make it more appealing to financial institutions that have so far rejected it , german media reported tuesday .
-lrb- 02.12.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live pulse listen live stock exchange today in history 1992 : chains of light against racism © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
eu approves commerzbank bailout -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 01.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business 125 years automobile science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de banking -pipe- 07.05.2009 eu approves commerzbank bailout großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : commerzbank was the first german bank to tap into the government 's rescue fund brussels has approved an 18-billion-euro government bailout of germany ’ s second largest bank .
the eu had requested assurances that the money will not give the bank an unfair edge over competitors . part of the money is already on commerzbank 's balance sheets after berlin injected 8 billion euros -lrb- $ 10.6 billion -rrb- into the bank in december last year .
now , commerzbank stands to receive another 10 billion euros of fresh capital .
berlin however needed the approval of brussels and on thursday the eu commission gave its green light .
" on the basis of the notified plans , the commission is satisfied that commerzbank 's long term viability has been demonstrated , and that the aid is kept to the minimum and will not lead to undue distortions of competition .
it has therefore declared the aid compatible , " the eu executive said in a statement .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : frankfurt 's skyline of bank headquarters was rocked by the global finacial crisis but the government aid will be tied to strict restructuring conditions .
commerzbank will have to sell its eurohypo unit , a major european player in the real estate business .
in addition , the bank will be banned for three years from buying other financial institutes that it competes with .
commerzbank , which is germany 's second largest private bank with a balance sheet total of 1,100 billion euros of capital , ran into financial trouble as a result of the global credit crunch .
berlin has welcomed the decision from brussels .
a government spokeswoman said it was " an important step to strengthen the trust in the government 's bailout fund . "
in the wake of the global financial crisis , germany has created a 470-billion-euro rescue fund to support the struggling sector . ai / rm , dpa / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de conditions for commerzbank aid package appear to be set the european commission has set conditions for commerzbank to get an 18 billion euros -lrb- $ 23 billion -rrb- rescue package from the german government .
the bank is expected to shed its eurohypo unit .
-lrb- 22.04.2009 -rrb- german government takes large stake in commerzbank the german government has agreed to take a 25-percent share in commerzbank .
the move signals the first time the government has taken a stake in a major private bank and comes as commerzbank is set to buy dresdner bank .
-lrb- 09.01.2009 -rrb- merkel seeks to make bank bailouts more attractive germany 's rescue package for struggling banks may be in for a revamp to make it more appealing to financial institutions that have so far rejected it , german media reported tuesday .
-lrb- 02.12.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week money , power and heavy metal : listen to the latest european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-tv europe live im focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live dw-tv get an inside look at some of germany 's more unusual companies .
the future of motoring 2 : zero-emissions vehicles the crisis in portugal bio-fuels : the debate continues pumps and robots - german technology for fukushima stock exchange today in history 1930 : " the blue angel " premieres © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
eu approves commerzbank bailout -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 22.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de banking -pipe- 07.05.2009 eu approves commerzbank bailout großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : commerzbank was the first german bank to tap into the government 's rescue fund brussels has approved an 18-billion-euro government bailout of germany ’ s second largest bank .
the eu had requested assurances that the money will not give the bank an unfair edge over competitors . part of the money is already on commerzbank 's balance sheets after berlin injected 8 billion euros -lrb- $ 10.6 billion -rrb- into the bank in december last year .
now , commerzbank stands to receive another 10 billion euros of fresh capital .
berlin however needed the approval of brussels and on thursday the eu commission gave its green light .
" on the basis of the notified plans , the commission is satisfied that commerzbank 's long term viability has been demonstrated , and that the aid is kept to the minimum and will not lead to undue distortions of competition .
it has therefore declared the aid compatible , " the eu executive said in a statement .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : frankfurt 's skyline of bank headquarters was rocked by the global finacial crisis but the government aid will be tied to strict restructuring conditions .
commerzbank will have to sell its eurohypo unit , a major european player in the real estate business .
in addition , the bank will be banned for three years from buying other financial institutes that it competes with .
commerzbank , which is germany 's second largest private bank with a balance sheet total of 1,100 billion euros of capital , ran into financial trouble as a result of the global credit crunch .
berlin has welcomed the decision from brussels .
a government spokeswoman said it was " an important step to strengthen the trust in the government 's bailout fund . "
in the wake of the global financial crisis , germany has created a 470-billion-euro rescue fund to support the struggling sector . ai / rm , dpa / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de conditions for commerzbank aid package appear to be set the european commission has set conditions for commerzbank to get an 18 billion euros -lrb- $ 23 billion -rrb- rescue package from the german government .
the bank is expected to shed its eurohypo unit .
-lrb- 22.04.2009 -rrb- german government takes large stake in commerzbank the german government has agreed to take a 25-percent share in commerzbank .
the move signals the first time the government has taken a stake in a major private bank and comes as commerzbank is set to buy dresdner bank .
-lrb- 09.01.2009 -rrb- merkel seeks to make bank bailouts more attractive germany 's rescue package for struggling banks may be in for a revamp to make it more appealing to financial institutions that have so far rejected it , german media reported tuesday .
-lrb- 02.12.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live hin & weg we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live banking get an inside look at some of germany 's more unusual companies .
fifa women 's world cup - another summer celebration ?
la máquina - tunnel-boring machinery for mexico , part 4 : the breakthrough industrial farming - pigs at dumping prices siematic kitchens - exclusive and expensive stock exchange today in history 1963 : german-french friendship treaty © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
eu approves commerzbank bailout -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 25.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de banking -pipe- 07.05.2009 eu approves commerzbank bailout großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : commerzbank was the first german bank to tap into the government 's rescue fund brussels has approved an 18-billion-euro government bailout of germany ’ s second largest bank .
the eu had requested assurances that the money will not give the bank an unfair edge over competitors . part of the money is already on commerzbank 's balance sheets after berlin injected 8 billion euros -lrb- $ 10.6 billion -rrb- into the bank in december last year .
now , commerzbank stands to receive another 10 billion euros of fresh capital .
berlin however needed the approval of brussels and on thursday the eu commission gave its green light .
" on the basis of the notified plans , the commission is satisfied that commerzbank 's long term viability has been demonstrated , and that the aid is kept to the minimum and will not lead to undue distortions of competition .
it has therefore declared the aid compatible , " the eu executive said in a statement .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : frankfurt 's skyline of bank headquarters was rocked by the global finacial crisis but the government aid will be tied to strict restructuring conditions .
commerzbank will have to sell its eurohypo unit , a major european player in the real estate business .
in addition , the bank will be banned for three years from buying other financial institutes that it competes with .
commerzbank , which is germany 's second largest private bank with a balance sheet total of 1,100 billion euros of capital , ran into financial trouble as a result of the global credit crunch .
berlin has welcomed the decision from brussels .
a government spokeswoman said it was " an important step to strengthen the trust in the government 's bailout fund . "
in the wake of the global financial crisis , germany has created a 470-billion-euro rescue fund to support the struggling sector . ai / rm , dpa / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de conditions for commerzbank aid package appear to be set the european commission has set conditions for commerzbank to get an 18 billion euros -lrb- $ 23 billion -rrb- rescue package from the german government .
the bank is expected to shed its eurohypo unit .
-lrb- 22.04.2009 -rrb- german government takes large stake in commerzbank the german government has agreed to take a 25-percent share in commerzbank .
the move signals the first time the government has taken a stake in a major private bank and comes as commerzbank is set to buy dresdner bank .
-lrb- 09.01.2009 -rrb- merkel seeks to make bank bailouts more attractive germany 's rescue package for struggling banks may be in for a revamp to make it more appealing to financial institutions that have so far rejected it , german media reported tuesday .
-lrb- 02.12.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week the european business week page listen to the latest european business week -lrb- 24.09.2010 -rrb- labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inside europe listen live stock exchange today in history 1912 : german library in leipzig © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
eu approves commerzbank bailout -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 06.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business 125 years automobile science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de banking -pipe- 07.05.2009 eu approves commerzbank bailout großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : commerzbank was the first german bank to tap into the government 's rescue fund brussels has approved an 18-billion-euro government bailout of germany ’ s second largest bank .
the eu had requested assurances that the money will not give the bank an unfair edge over competitors . part of the money is already on commerzbank 's balance sheets after berlin injected 8 billion euros -lrb- $ 10.6 billion -rrb- into the bank in december last year .
now , commerzbank stands to receive another 10 billion euros of fresh capital .
berlin however needed the approval of brussels and on thursday the eu commission gave its green light .
" on the basis of the notified plans , the commission is satisfied that commerzbank 's long term viability has been demonstrated , and that the aid is kept to the minimum and will not lead to undue distortions of competition .
it has therefore declared the aid compatible , " the eu executive said in a statement .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : frankfurt 's skyline of bank headquarters was rocked by the global finacial crisis but the government aid will be tied to strict restructuring conditions .
commerzbank will have to sell its eurohypo unit , a major european player in the real estate business .
in addition , the bank will be banned for three years from buying other financial institutes that it competes with .
commerzbank , which is germany 's second largest private bank with a balance sheet total of 1,100 billion euros of capital , ran into financial trouble as a result of the global credit crunch .
berlin has welcomed the decision from brussels .
a government spokeswoman said it was " an important step to strengthen the trust in the government 's bailout fund . "
in the wake of the global financial crisis , germany has created a 470-billion-euro rescue fund to support the struggling sector . ai / rm , dpa / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de conditions for commerzbank aid package appear to be set the european commission has set conditions for commerzbank to get an 18 billion euros -lrb- $ 23 billion -rrb- rescue package from the german government .
the bank is expected to shed its eurohypo unit .
-lrb- 22.04.2009 -rrb- german government takes large stake in commerzbank the german government has agreed to take a 25-percent share in commerzbank .
the move signals the first time the government has taken a stake in a major private bank and comes as commerzbank is set to buy dresdner bank .
-lrb- 09.01.2009 -rrb- merkel seeks to make bank bailouts more attractive germany 's rescue package for struggling banks may be in for a revamp to make it more appealing to financial institutions that have so far rejected it , german media reported tuesday .
-lrb- 02.12.2008 -rrb- 9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-tv europe live kick off !
countdown we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live stock exchange today in history 1955 : west germany becomes a sovereign state dw-tv get an inside look at some of germany 's more unusual companies .
nicola lemken - plowing a successful furrow audi and the dtm , part 4 - big race , big business greece - a year with the financial rescue package handmade in germany : belts for a lifetime © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
fiat reported to have plans to shut down german opel plant -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.09.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de auto industry -pipe- 07.05.2009 fiat reported to have plans to shut down german opel plant großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : at this stage , the road fiat plans to take in its proposed opel takeover is unclear italian auto group fiat could shut down as many as five factories , including one in germany , as part of its plans to take over the european operations of struggling us auto giant , general motors . according to media reports that cite fiat 's proposal to the german government from earlier this week , the opel plant in kaiserslautern would cease operations under fiat .
plants in bochum and the opel headquarters at ruesselsheim would , according to the reports , be scaled down , as part of " project phoenix " .
one gm plant in england , one in austria , as well as two italian factories would also be part of the shutdown list , according to the reports .
however , this contradicts fiat ceo sergio marchionne 's denial earlier this week that any of opel 's four german plans would be closed . job cuts " inevitable " - no matter who takes over bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : opel employees ' fate is still very much up in the air armin schild , a member of opel 's supervisory board , said job cuts would be inevitable in a takeover of opel .
job cut plans are one of the key criteria on which the suitability of potential investors in opel will be judged , according to a checklist drawn up by vice-chancellor frank-walter steinmeier -lrb- spd -rrb- , who will is to challenge chancellor angela merkel -lrb- cdu -rrb- in september 's federal election .
schild , who represents labor union ig metall on the board , also said the austrian-canadian car parts maker magna has so far presented a more concrete takeover proposal .
media reports have said that possible partners for magna include russian carmaker gaz as well as russia 's sberbank .
gaz and its owner , billionaire oleg deripaska , have repeatedly denied interest .
general motors teeters on bridge of bankruptcy meanwhile , opel 's parent company , general motors , has announced a quarterly net loss of six billion dollars -lrb- 4.5 billion euros -rrb- - its eighth quarterly loss in a row .
it also announced a loss of 2 billion dollars -lrb- 1.5 billion euros -rrb- from its european operations .
revenue dropped by 47 percent , to 22.4 billion dollars .
gm , the largest us carmaker , is currently operating under a us federal bail-out plan .
it is threatened with bankruptcy , as has already happened to its competitor , chrysler .
us president barack obama has given gm an end-of-may deadline for a new restructuring plan to be implemented . cg / dpa , reuters / ap / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de fiat denies it plans to cut 18,000 jobs , close factories fiat has denied a german news report that it plans to cut 18,000 jobs and close 10 factories in europe , should it succeed in its bid to take over gm 's european operations .
-lrb- 06.05.2009 -rrb- fiat boss commits to opel plants in germany the head of italian automaker fiat , sergio marchionne , has said in an interview he wants to keep open all four opel plants in germany after a possible takeover of the struggling carmaker .
-lrb- 05.05.2009 -rrb- magna meets with guttenberg over possible opel deal representatives from the canadian-austrian car parts supplier have presented germany 's economics minister with a draft plan for bailing out opel .
but the troubled carmaker remains a bone of contention .
-lrb- 28.04.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live hits in germany pop from the top 100 listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
fiat reported to have plans to shut down german opel plant -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 31.10.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de auto industry -pipe- 07.05.2009 fiat reported to have plans to shut down german opel plant großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : at this stage , the road fiat plans to take in its proposed opel takeover is unclear italian auto group fiat could shut down as many as five factories , including one in germany , as part of its plans to take over the european operations of struggling us auto giant , general motors . according to media reports that cite fiat 's proposal to the german government from earlier this week , the opel plant in kaiserslautern would cease operations under fiat .
plants in bochum and the opel headquarters at ruesselsheim would , according to the reports , be scaled down , as part of " project phoenix " .
one gm plant in england , one in austria , as well as two italian factories would also be part of the shutdown list , according to the reports .
however , this contradicts fiat ceo sergio marchionne 's denial earlier this week that any of opel 's four german plans would be closed . job cuts " inevitable " - no matter who takes over bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : opel employees ' fate is still very much up in the air armin schild , a member of opel 's supervisory board , said job cuts would be inevitable in a takeover of opel .
job cut plans are one of the key criteria on which the suitability of potential investors in opel will be judged , according to a checklist drawn up by vice-chancellor frank-walter steinmeier -lrb- spd -rrb- , who will is to challenge chancellor angela merkel -lrb- cdu -rrb- in september 's federal election .
schild , who represents labor union ig metall on the board , also said the austrian-canadian car parts maker magna has so far presented a more concrete takeover proposal .
media reports have said that possible partners for magna include russian carmaker gaz as well as russia 's sberbank .
gaz and its owner , billionaire oleg deripaska , have repeatedly denied interest .
general motors teeters on bridge of bankruptcy meanwhile , opel 's parent company , general motors , has announced a quarterly net loss of six billion dollars -lrb- 4.5 billion euros -rrb- - its eighth quarterly loss in a row .
it also announced a loss of 2 billion dollars -lrb- 1.5 billion euros -rrb- from its european operations .
revenue dropped by 47 percent , to 22.4 billion dollars .
gm , the largest us carmaker , is currently operating under a us federal bail-out plan .
it is threatened with bankruptcy , as has already happened to its competitor , chrysler .
us president barack obama has given gm an end-of-may deadline for a new restructuring plan to be implemented . cg / dpa , reuters / ap / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de fiat denies it plans to cut 18,000 jobs , close factories fiat has denied a german news report that it plans to cut 18,000 jobs and close 10 factories in europe , should it succeed in its bid to take over gm 's european operations .
-lrb- 06.05.2009 -rrb- fiat boss commits to opel plants in germany the head of italian automaker fiat , sergio marchionne , has said in an interview he wants to keep open all four opel plants in germany after a possible takeover of the struggling carmaker .
-lrb- 05.05.2009 -rrb- magna meets with guttenberg over possible opel deal representatives from the canadian-austrian car parts supplier have presented germany 's economics minister with a draft plan for bailing out opel .
but the troubled carmaker remains a bone of contention .
-lrb- 28.04.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live sports report listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
fiat reported to have plans to shut down german opel plant -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 16.12.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de auto industry -pipe- 07.05.2009 fiat reported to have plans to shut down german opel plant großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : at this stage , the road fiat plans to take in its proposed opel takeover is unclear italian auto group fiat could shut down as many as five factories , including one in germany , as part of its plans to take over the european operations of struggling us auto giant , general motors . according to media reports that cite fiat 's proposal to the german government from earlier this week , the opel plant in kaiserslautern would cease operations under fiat .
plants in bochum and the opel headquarters at ruesselsheim would , according to the reports , be scaled down , as part of " project phoenix " .
one gm plant in england , one in austria , as well as two italian factories would also be part of the shutdown list , according to the reports .
however , this contradicts fiat ceo sergio marchionne 's denial earlier this week that any of opel 's four german plans would be closed . job cuts " inevitable " - no matter who takes over bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : opel employees ' fate is still very much up in the air armin schild , a member of opel 's supervisory board , said job cuts would be inevitable in a takeover of opel .
job cut plans are one of the key criteria on which the suitability of potential investors in opel will be judged , according to a checklist drawn up by vice-chancellor frank-walter steinmeier -lrb- spd -rrb- , who will is to challenge chancellor angela merkel -lrb- cdu -rrb- in september 's federal election .
schild , who represents labor union ig metall on the board , also said the austrian-canadian car parts maker magna has so far presented a more concrete takeover proposal .
media reports have said that possible partners for magna include russian carmaker gaz as well as russia 's sberbank .
gaz and its owner , billionaire oleg deripaska , have repeatedly denied interest .
general motors teeters on bridge of bankruptcy meanwhile , opel 's parent company , general motors , has announced a quarterly net loss of six billion dollars -lrb- 4.5 billion euros -rrb- - its eighth quarterly loss in a row .
it also announced a loss of 2 billion dollars -lrb- 1.5 billion euros -rrb- from its european operations .
revenue dropped by 47 percent , to 22.4 billion dollars .
gm , the largest us carmaker , is currently operating under a us federal bail-out plan .
it is threatened with bankruptcy , as has already happened to its competitor , chrysler .
us president barack obama has given gm an end-of-may deadline for a new restructuring plan to be implemented . cg / dpa , reuters / ap / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de fiat denies it plans to cut 18,000 jobs , close factories fiat has denied a german news report that it plans to cut 18,000 jobs and close 10 factories in europe , should it succeed in its bid to take over gm 's european operations .
-lrb- 06.05.2009 -rrb- fiat boss commits to opel plants in germany the head of italian automaker fiat , sergio marchionne , has said in an interview he wants to keep open all four opel plants in germany after a possible takeover of the struggling carmaker .
-lrb- 05.05.2009 -rrb- magna meets with guttenberg over possible opel deal representatives from the canadian-austrian car parts supplier have presented germany 's economics minister with a draft plan for bailing out opel .
but the troubled carmaker remains a bone of contention .
-lrb- 28.04.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live world in progress listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
travel passau is called the three river city , but it is just as famous for its baroque splendor .
passau - baroque facades and vibrant arts watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
fiat reported to have plans to shut down german opel plant -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 02.04.2011 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de auto industry -pipe- 07.05.2009 fiat reported to have plans to shut down german opel plant großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : at this stage , the road fiat plans to take in its proposed opel takeover is unclear italian auto group fiat could shut down as many as five factories , including one in germany , as part of its plans to take over the european operations of struggling us auto giant , general motors . according to media reports that cite fiat 's proposal to the german government from earlier this week , the opel plant in kaiserslautern would cease operations under fiat .
plants in bochum and the opel headquarters at ruesselsheim would , according to the reports , be scaled down , as part of " project phoenix " .
one gm plant in england , one in austria , as well as two italian factories would also be part of the shutdown list , according to the reports .
however , this contradicts fiat ceo sergio marchionne 's denial earlier this week that any of opel 's four german plans would be closed . job cuts " inevitable " - no matter who takes over bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : opel employees ' fate is still very much up in the air armin schild , a member of opel 's supervisory board , said job cuts would be inevitable in a takeover of opel .
job cut plans are one of the key criteria on which the suitability of potential investors in opel will be judged , according to a checklist drawn up by vice-chancellor frank-walter steinmeier -lrb- spd -rrb- , who will is to challenge chancellor angela merkel -lrb- cdu -rrb- in september 's federal election .
schild , who represents labor union ig metall on the board , also said the austrian-canadian car parts maker magna has so far presented a more concrete takeover proposal .
media reports have said that possible partners for magna include russian carmaker gaz as well as russia 's sberbank .
gaz and its owner , billionaire oleg deripaska , have repeatedly denied interest .
general motors teeters on bridge of bankruptcy meanwhile , opel 's parent company , general motors , has announced a quarterly net loss of six billion dollars -lrb- 4.5 billion euros -rrb- - its eighth quarterly loss in a row .
it also announced a loss of 2 billion dollars -lrb- 1.5 billion euros -rrb- from its european operations .
revenue dropped by 47 percent , to 22.4 billion dollars .
gm , the largest us carmaker , is currently operating under a us federal bail-out plan .
it is threatened with bankruptcy , as has already happened to its competitor , chrysler .
us president barack obama has given gm an end-of-may deadline for a new restructuring plan to be implemented . cg / dpa , reuters / ap / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de fiat denies it plans to cut 18,000 jobs , close factories fiat has denied a german news report that it plans to cut 18,000 jobs and close 10 factories in europe , should it succeed in its bid to take over gm 's european operations .
-lrb- 06.05.2009 -rrb- fiat boss commits to opel plants in germany the head of italian automaker fiat , sergio marchionne , has said in an interview he wants to keep open all four opel plants in germany after a possible takeover of the struggling carmaker .
-lrb- 05.05.2009 -rrb- magna meets with guttenberg over possible opel deal representatives from the canadian-austrian car parts supplier have presented germany 's economics minister with a draft plan for bailing out opel .
but the troubled carmaker remains a bone of contention .
-lrb- 28.04.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live im focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
fiat reported to have plans to shut down german opel plant -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 23.01.2011 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de auto industry -pipe- 07.05.2009 fiat reported to have plans to shut down german opel plant großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : at this stage , the road fiat plans to take in its proposed opel takeover is unclear italian auto group fiat could shut down as many as five factories , including one in germany , as part of its plans to take over the european operations of struggling us auto giant , general motors . according to media reports that cite fiat 's proposal to the german government from earlier this week , the opel plant in kaiserslautern would cease operations under fiat .
plants in bochum and the opel headquarters at ruesselsheim would , according to the reports , be scaled down , as part of " project phoenix " .
one gm plant in england , one in austria , as well as two italian factories would also be part of the shutdown list , according to the reports .
however , this contradicts fiat ceo sergio marchionne 's denial earlier this week that any of opel 's four german plans would be closed . job cuts " inevitable " - no matter who takes over bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : opel employees ' fate is still very much up in the air armin schild , a member of opel 's supervisory board , said job cuts would be inevitable in a takeover of opel .
job cut plans are one of the key criteria on which the suitability of potential investors in opel will be judged , according to a checklist drawn up by vice-chancellor frank-walter steinmeier -lrb- spd -rrb- , who will is to challenge chancellor angela merkel -lrb- cdu -rrb- in september 's federal election .
schild , who represents labor union ig metall on the board , also said the austrian-canadian car parts maker magna has so far presented a more concrete takeover proposal .
media reports have said that possible partners for magna include russian carmaker gaz as well as russia 's sberbank .
gaz and its owner , billionaire oleg deripaska , have repeatedly denied interest .
general motors teeters on bridge of bankruptcy meanwhile , opel 's parent company , general motors , has announced a quarterly net loss of six billion dollars -lrb- 4.5 billion euros -rrb- - its eighth quarterly loss in a row .
it also announced a loss of 2 billion dollars -lrb- 1.5 billion euros -rrb- from its european operations .
revenue dropped by 47 percent , to 22.4 billion dollars .
gm , the largest us carmaker , is currently operating under a us federal bail-out plan .
it is threatened with bankruptcy , as has already happened to its competitor , chrysler .
us president barack obama has given gm an end-of-may deadline for a new restructuring plan to be implemented . cg / dpa , reuters / ap / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de fiat denies it plans to cut 18,000 jobs , close factories fiat has denied a german news report that it plans to cut 18,000 jobs and close 10 factories in europe , should it succeed in its bid to take over gm 's european operations .
-lrb- 06.05.2009 -rrb- fiat boss commits to opel plants in germany the head of italian automaker fiat , sergio marchionne , has said in an interview he wants to keep open all four opel plants in germany after a possible takeover of the struggling carmaker .
-lrb- 05.05.2009 -rrb- magna meets with guttenberg over possible opel deal representatives from the canadian-austrian car parts supplier have presented germany 's economics minister with a draft plan for bailing out opel .
but the troubled carmaker remains a bone of contention .
-lrb- 28.04.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live typisch deutsch we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live pulse listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
fiat reported to have plans to shut down german opel plant -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 07.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de auto industry -pipe- 07.05.2009 fiat reported to have plans to shut down german opel plant großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : at this stage , the road fiat plans to take in its proposed opel takeover is unclear italian auto group fiat could shut down as many as five factories , including one in germany , as part of its plans to take over the european operations of struggling us auto giant , general motors . according to media reports that cite fiat 's proposal to the german government from earlier this week , the opel plant in kaiserslautern would cease operations under fiat .
plants in bochum and the opel headquarters at ruesselsheim would , according to the reports , be scaled down , as part of " project phoenix " .
one gm plant in england , one in austria , as well as two italian factories would also be part of the shutdown list , according to the reports .
however , this contradicts fiat ceo sergio marchionne 's denial earlier this week that any of opel 's four german plans would be closed . job cuts " inevitable " - no matter who takes over bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : opel employees ' fate is still very much up in the air armin schild , a member of opel 's supervisory board , said job cuts would be inevitable in a takeover of opel .
job cut plans are one of the key criteria on which the suitability of potential investors in opel will be judged , according to a checklist drawn up by vice-chancellor frank-walter steinmeier -lrb- spd -rrb- , who will is to challenge chancellor angela merkel -lrb- cdu -rrb- in september 's federal election .
schild , who represents labor union ig metall on the board , also said the austrian-canadian car parts maker magna has so far presented a more concrete takeover proposal .
media reports have said that possible partners for magna include russian carmaker gaz as well as russia 's sberbank .
gaz and its owner , billionaire oleg deripaska , have repeatedly denied interest .
general motors teeters on bridge of bankruptcy meanwhile , opel 's parent company , general motors , has announced a quarterly net loss of six billion dollars -lrb- 4.5 billion euros -rrb- - its eighth quarterly loss in a row .
it also announced a loss of 2 billion dollars -lrb- 1.5 billion euros -rrb- from its european operations .
revenue dropped by 47 percent , to 22.4 billion dollars .
gm , the largest us carmaker , is currently operating under a us federal bail-out plan .
it is threatened with bankruptcy , as has already happened to its competitor , chrysler .
us president barack obama has given gm an end-of-may deadline for a new restructuring plan to be implemented . cg / dpa , reuters / ap / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de fiat denies it plans to cut 18,000 jobs , close factories fiat has denied a german news report that it plans to cut 18,000 jobs and close 10 factories in europe , should it succeed in its bid to take over gm 's european operations .
-lrb- 06.05.2009 -rrb- fiat boss commits to opel plants in germany the head of italian automaker fiat , sergio marchionne , has said in an interview he wants to keep open all four opel plants in germany after a possible takeover of the struggling carmaker .
-lrb- 05.05.2009 -rrb- magna meets with guttenberg over possible opel deal representatives from the canadian-austrian car parts supplier have presented germany 's economics minister with a draft plan for bailing out opel .
but the troubled carmaker remains a bone of contention .
-lrb- 28.04.2009 -rrb- 9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
fiat reported to have plans to shut down german opel plant -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de auto industry -pipe- 07.05.2009 fiat reported to have plans to shut down german opel plant großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : at this stage , the road fiat plans to take in its proposed opel takeover is unclear italian auto group fiat could shut down as many as five factories , including one in germany , as part of its plans to take over the european operations of struggling us auto giant , general motors . according to media reports that cite fiat 's proposal to the german government from earlier this week , the opel plant in kaiserslautern would cease operations under fiat .
plants in bochum and the opel headquarters at ruesselsheim would , according to the reports , be scaled down , as part of " project phoenix " .
one gm plant in england , one in austria , as well as two italian factories would also be part of the shutdown list , according to the reports .
however , this contradicts fiat ceo sergio marchionne 's denial earlier this week that any of opel 's four german plans would be closed . job cuts " inevitable " - no matter who takes over bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : opel employees ' fate is still very much up in the air armin schild , a member of opel 's supervisory board , said job cuts would be inevitable in a takeover of opel .
job cut plans are one of the key criteria on which the suitability of potential investors in opel will be judged , according to a checklist drawn up by vice-chancellor frank-walter steinmeier -lrb- spd -rrb- , who will is to challenge chancellor angela merkel -lrb- cdu -rrb- in september 's federal election .
schild , who represents labor union ig metall on the board , also said the austrian-canadian car parts maker magna has so far presented a more concrete takeover proposal .
media reports have said that possible partners for magna include russian carmaker gaz as well as russia 's sberbank .
gaz and its owner , billionaire oleg deripaska , have repeatedly denied interest .
general motors teeters on bridge of bankruptcy meanwhile , opel 's parent company , general motors , has announced a quarterly net loss of six billion dollars -lrb- 4.5 billion euros -rrb- - its eighth quarterly loss in a row .
it also announced a loss of 2 billion dollars -lrb- 1.5 billion euros -rrb- from its european operations .
revenue dropped by 47 percent , to 22.4 billion dollars .
gm , the largest us carmaker , is currently operating under a us federal bail-out plan .
it is threatened with bankruptcy , as has already happened to its competitor , chrysler .
us president barack obama has given gm an end-of-may deadline for a new restructuring plan to be implemented . cg / dpa , reuters / ap / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de fiat denies it plans to cut 18,000 jobs , close factories fiat has denied a german news report that it plans to cut 18,000 jobs and close 10 factories in europe , should it succeed in its bid to take over gm 's european operations .
-lrb- 06.05.2009 -rrb- fiat boss commits to opel plants in germany the head of italian automaker fiat , sergio marchionne , has said in an interview he wants to keep open all four opel plants in germany after a possible takeover of the struggling carmaker .
-lrb- 05.05.2009 -rrb- magna meets with guttenberg over possible opel deal representatives from the canadian-austrian car parts supplier have presented germany 's economics minister with a draft plan for bailing out opel .
but the troubled carmaker remains a bone of contention .
-lrb- 28.04.2009 -rrb- 9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - news with in depth we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive. tourism germany 's north sea coast boasts some of the longest and most attractive beaches in europe .
watch the video dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
doubts remain over medvedev 's power and policy after first year in office -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de russia -pipe- 07.05.2009 doubts remain over medvedev 's power and policy after first year in office großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : medvedev has had a busy first 12 months in power russian president dmitry medvedev marks the one-year anniversary of his coming to power on may 7 .
twelve months on , questions and doubts still remain over his legitimacy and his policies . global opinion was divided when dmitry medvedev became russian president on may 7 last year .
some saw the new leader as a puppet of vladimir putin , his predecessor and the man who medvedev had served loyally throughout his two terms in office .
others saw the incoming president as a man who could drive russia down a more liberal and democratic road , and reverse decades of state oppression .
one year on – a year during which medvedev has waged his first war and has been thrust into the forefront of the worst global economic crisis for over 80 years – questions and doubts still remain over whether medvedev is really the man leading russia and if he is , whether he is the right man to reform his nation .
so to what extent has medvedev been successful in attempting to answer those questions leveled against him ?
" from medvedev 's point of view , it 's probably been quite a successful year , " sam greene , the deputy director for operations at the carnegie endowment for international peace in moscow , told deutsche welle .
" this dual system of government which was put together – with medvedev as president and putin as prime minister – has not been without its problems but it 's worked relatively well .
it 's kept the ruling elite relatively cohesive and both medvedev and putin have remained popular politically and are seen as relatively legitimate both at home and internationally .
so it has been a success story for the experiment – which is what this presidency with putin as prime minister is ; a huge political experiment .
" but from a policy perspective , in terms of the reforms that medvedev talked about prior to becoming president ; strengthening the rule of law , diversifying the economy – there really have n't been any policy successes , " he added .
" his rhetoric has been very good .
he speaks very ably on the rule of law , on democracy , on economic liberalism but there was a lot of good rhetoric from putin on these issues for eight years and we did n't see any progress in that direction from him either . "
criticism stems from lack of reform progress much of the analysis of medvedev 's first year in power focuses on these promised reforms and the progress – or lack thereof – that russia has made in the spheres of democracy , human rights and press freedom .
according to professor margot light , a russia expert at the center for the study of global governance at the london school of economics , medvedev has fallen short of the optimists ' expectations .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : medvedev was initially against khodorkovsky 's second trial " there have been many words but very few deeds , " she said .
" medvedev came to power with everyone saying that he was far more liberal than putin .
in fact there has been very little sign of this .
it 's only been in the last couple of weeks that he 's started to talk the liberal talk , by giving an interview to an opposition newspaper , for example .
but apart from that there have been very little progress .
there has been the second trial of -lrb- jailed russian oil oligarch mikhail -rrb- khodorkovsky , even though medvedev himself seemed to be against it ; the electronic media is no freer than it was before he came to power and the non-governmental organizations are still having a tough time so there a very few signs that he has made much progress on the democratization front . "
meanwhile , amnesty international declared on the president 's first anniversary that little had been done to improve human rights in russia since he came to power .
in a statement released on thursday , amnesty said that in some areas the situation has deteriorated despite initial improvements , specifically in relation to attacks against lawyers , journalists and opposition activists which it said were on the rise .
sam greene agrees .
" the situation with the press has n't got any better , in fact in some cases it has actually gotten worse , " he said .
" we 've seen more violence against the press .
this is not state-sponsored violence but it 's part of the current climate and it is part of the responsibility of the state to improve the atmosphere and to make clear that violence against the media will not be tolerated .
" in terms of democracy , there was some talk about reforms to the electoral laws but they 've been slow in coming , " he added .
" we saw municipal elections around the country in which the ruling party continued to dominate , continued to rely on administrative resources and its ability to manipulate the system .
we saw this very clearly in the recent mayoral elections in sochi just like month . "
leadership partners still hugely popular in russia despite these criticisms , neither medvedev nor putin has suffered a serious reversal in popularity within the populace .
in fact , both retain huge support within russia .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : medvedev is gaining the kind of star status putin enjoys " medvedev enjoys very high ratings but the problem has always been that russians appear to prefer order to justice , " light said .
" russians are in favor of tough measures if they believe that those tough measures actually make the country more orderly .
so the president and putin still enjoy enormous support from the population . "
sam greene admits that medvedev and putin may have seen a minor dip in popularity but this is mainly due to the current economic crisis , which has seen unemployment in russia increase and income decrease , and not because of any democratic or liberal failures .
but greene believes that the population does n't hold the leadership partners responsible for its economic woes .
“ the people do n't blame medvedev and putin for these problems nor do they really expect the government or medvedev to be able to do much about them , " he said .
" the people are quite pragmatic , if not cynical , about the russian government 's ability to deal with this crisis . "
while medvedev 's polices have been increasingly scrutinized since he came to power , the partnership agreement struck between the president and his prime minister has also come under close inspection during this first year .
questions remain over who really is the boss bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the partnership has to and will endure , say experts the state of the two men 's relationship has been the subject of intense speculation lately as medvedev has grown into his role and repeated reports of an imminent split between the two have begun to circulate .
but both sam greene and margot light believe the partnership will endure .
" i think there was a very clear arrangement between the two of them ahead of their presidential election under which it was agreed that they were playing on the same team and playing the same role which was to maintain the outward legitimacy and stability of the political system and to mediate conflict between the various groups in the elite , " greene said .
" i would n't expect them to work at cross purposes unless there was a real split between the powerful elite in the country .
there seems to be a broad consensus that this current system needs to continue so i think the relationship between medvedev and putin will remain stable .
the only thing that 's changed is that medvedev has become a bit more comfortable in the position , has begun to understand what he can and can not do and become more confident with his rhetoric and his public persona . "
" there have been lots of attempts to find cracks between them , " light added .
" i think it 's fanciful .
i see no cracks between them .
if medvedev was there just to hold the place for putin until he could run again , the danger was always that medvedev would like the taste of power and decide he wanted to keep it for himself .
i see no sign that this has happened – yet , at any rate .
" however , internationally , medvedev is still seen very much as an instrument of putin 's policy , " light concluded .
" although he fulfills all the roles the constitution affords to the president , i still think there is a very strong feeling internationally that putin is making the decisions and medvedev is simply doing his bidding . "
author : nick amies editor chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de pro-kremlin candidate wins sochi mayoral poll amid claims of fraud amid claims of fraud , anatoly pakhomov , the pro-kremlin candidate in mayoral polls for the russian city of sochi , won a landslide victory in an election seen as a test of the political climate under president medvedev .
-lrb- 27.04.2009 -rrb- critics call putin treason bill means to quash opposition human rights organizations have criticized a new bill that would abolish jury trials for people suspected of treason , hostage-taking , organizing mass disturbances and several other serious crimes .
-lrb- 18.12.2008 -rrb- opinion : russia 's power duo offers tenuous political stability it 's an action-packed week in russian politics with dmitry medvedev and vladimir putin taking up their respective offices .
yet everything is not as rosy as it might appear , says deutsche welle 's ingo mannteufel .
-lrb- 05.05.2008 -rrb- 9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit tagesthema we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
diplomacy lithuania and austria row after vienna police release an ex-kgb officer wanted for war crimes .
listen to the audio soccer turkish soccer officials meet in geneva after a match-fixing scandal gets dozens arrested .
listen to the audio education british parents are responding to government education cuts by setting up their own schools .
watch the video inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
the rhino mafia where to serve ?
soliders with dual citizenship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
doubts remain over medvedev 's power and policy after first year in office -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.10.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de russia -pipe- 07.05.2009 doubts remain over medvedev 's power and policy after first year in office großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : medvedev has had a busy first 12 months in power russian president dmitry medvedev marks the one-year anniversary of his coming to power on may 7 .
twelve months on , questions and doubts still remain over his legitimacy and his policies . global opinion was divided when dmitry medvedev became russian president on may 7 last year .
some saw the new leader as a puppet of vladimir putin , his predecessor and the man who medvedev had served loyally throughout his two terms in office .
others saw the incoming president as a man who could drive russia down a more liberal and democratic road , and reverse decades of state oppression .
one year on – a year during which medvedev has waged his first war and has been thrust into the forefront of the worst global economic crisis for over 80 years – questions and doubts still remain over whether medvedev is really the man leading russia and if he is , whether he is the right man to reform his nation .
so to what extent has medvedev been successful in attempting to answer those questions leveled against him ?
" from medvedev 's point of view , it 's probably been quite a successful year , " sam greene , the deputy director for operations at the carnegie endowment for international peace in moscow , told deutsche welle .
" this dual system of government which was put together – with medvedev as president and putin as prime minister – has not been without its problems but it 's worked relatively well .
it 's kept the ruling elite relatively cohesive and both medvedev and putin have remained popular politically and are seen as relatively legitimate both at home and internationally .
so it has been a success story for the experiment – which is what this presidency with putin as prime minister is ; a huge political experiment .
" but from a policy perspective , in terms of the reforms that medvedev talked about prior to becoming president ; strengthening the rule of law , diversifying the economy – there really have n't been any policy successes , " he added .
" his rhetoric has been very good .
he speaks very ably on the rule of law , on democracy , on economic liberalism but there was a lot of good rhetoric from putin on these issues for eight years and we did n't see any progress in that direction from him either . "
criticism stems from lack of reform progress much of the analysis of medvedev 's first year in power focuses on these promised reforms and the progress – or lack thereof – that russia has made in the spheres of democracy , human rights and press freedom .
according to professor margot light , a russia expert at the center for the study of global governance at the london school of economics , medvedev has fallen short of the optimists ' expectations .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : medvedev was initially against khodorkovsky 's second trial " there have been many words but very few deeds , " she said .
" medvedev came to power with everyone saying that he was far more liberal than putin .
in fact there has been very little sign of this .
it 's only been in the last couple of weeks that he 's started to talk the liberal talk , by giving an interview to an opposition newspaper , for example .
but apart from that there have been very little progress .
there has been the second trial of -lrb- jailed russian oil oligarch mikhail -rrb- khodorkovsky , even though medvedev himself seemed to be against it ; the electronic media is no freer than it was before he came to power and the non-governmental organizations are still having a tough time so there a very few signs that he has made much progress on the democratization front . "
meanwhile , amnesty international declared on the president 's first anniversary that little had been done to improve human rights in russia since he came to power .
in a statement released on thursday , amnesty said that in some areas the situation has deteriorated despite initial improvements , specifically in relation to attacks against lawyers , journalists and opposition activists which it said were on the rise .
sam greene agrees .
" the situation with the press has n't got any better , in fact in some cases it has actually gotten worse , " he said .
" we 've seen more violence against the press .
this is not state-sponsored violence but it 's part of the current climate and it is part of the responsibility of the state to improve the atmosphere and to make clear that violence against the media will not be tolerated .
" in terms of democracy , there was some talk about reforms to the electoral laws but they 've been slow in coming , " he added .
" we saw municipal elections around the country in which the ruling party continued to dominate , continued to rely on administrative resources and its ability to manipulate the system .
we saw this very clearly in the recent mayoral elections in sochi just like month . "
leadership partners still hugely popular in russia despite these criticisms , neither medvedev nor putin has suffered a serious reversal in popularity within the populace .
in fact , both retain huge support within russia .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : medvedev is gaining the kind of star status putin enjoys " medvedev enjoys very high ratings but the problem has always been that russians appear to prefer order to justice , " light said .
" russians are in favor of tough measures if they believe that those tough measures actually make the country more orderly .
so the president and putin still enjoy enormous support from the population . "
sam greene admits that medvedev and putin may have seen a minor dip in popularity but this is mainly due to the current economic crisis , which has seen unemployment in russia increase and income decrease , and not because of any democratic or liberal failures .
but greene believes that the population does n't hold the leadership partners responsible for its economic woes .
“ the people do n't blame medvedev and putin for these problems nor do they really expect the government or medvedev to be able to do much about them , " he said .
" the people are quite pragmatic , if not cynical , about the russian government 's ability to deal with this crisis . "
while medvedev 's polices have been increasingly scrutinized since he came to power , the partnership agreement struck between the president and his prime minister has also come under close inspection during this first year .
questions remain over who really is the boss bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the partnership has to and will endure , say experts the state of the two men 's relationship has been the subject of intense speculation lately as medvedev has grown into his role and repeated reports of an imminent split between the two have begun to circulate .
but both sam greene and margot light believe the partnership will endure .
" i think there was a very clear arrangement between the two of them ahead of their presidential election under which it was agreed that they were playing on the same team and playing the same role which was to maintain the outward legitimacy and stability of the political system and to mediate conflict between the various groups in the elite , " greene said .
" i would n't expect them to work at cross purposes unless there was a real split between the powerful elite in the country .
there seems to be a broad consensus that this current system needs to continue so i think the relationship between medvedev and putin will remain stable .
the only thing that 's changed is that medvedev has become a bit more comfortable in the position , has begun to understand what he can and can not do and become more confident with his rhetoric and his public persona . "
" there have been lots of attempts to find cracks between them , " light added .
" i think it 's fanciful .
i see no cracks between them .
if medvedev was there just to hold the place for putin until he could run again , the danger was always that medvedev would like the taste of power and decide he wanted to keep it for himself .
i see no sign that this has happened – yet , at any rate .
" however , internationally , medvedev is still seen very much as an instrument of putin 's policy , " light concluded .
" although he fulfills all the roles the constitution affords to the president , i still think there is a very strong feeling internationally that putin is making the decisions and medvedev is simply doing his bidding . "
author : nick amies editor chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de pro-kremlin candidate wins sochi mayoral poll amid claims of fraud amid claims of fraud , anatoly pakhomov , the pro-kremlin candidate in mayoral polls for the russian city of sochi , won a landslide victory in an election seen as a test of the political climate under president medvedev .
-lrb- 27.04.2009 -rrb- critics call putin treason bill means to quash opposition human rights organizations have criticized a new bill that would abolish jury trials for people suspected of treason , hostage-taking , organizing mass disturbances and several other serious crimes .
-lrb- 18.12.2008 -rrb- opinion : russia 's power duo offers tenuous political stability it 's an action-packed week in russian politics with dmitry medvedev and vladimir putin taking up their respective offices .
yet everything is not as rosy as it might appear , says deutsche welle 's ingo mannteufel .
-lrb- 05.05.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
quo vadis bosnia ?
betancourt book sparks controversy in france technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
doubts remain over medvedev 's power and policy after first year in office -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 09.09.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de russia -pipe- 07.05.2009 doubts remain over medvedev 's power and policy after first year in office großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : medvedev has had a busy first 12 months in power russian president dmitry medvedev marks the one-year anniversary of his coming to power on may 7 .
twelve months on , questions and doubts still remain over his legitimacy and his policies . global opinion was divided when dmitry medvedev became russian president on may 7 last year .
some saw the new leader as a puppet of vladimir putin , his predecessor and the man who medvedev had served loyally throughout his two terms in office .
others saw the incoming president as a man who could drive russia down a more liberal and democratic road , and reverse decades of state oppression .
one year on – a year during which medvedev has waged his first war and has been thrust into the forefront of the worst global economic crisis for over 80 years – questions and doubts still remain over whether medvedev is really the man leading russia and if he is , whether he is the right man to reform his nation .
so to what extent has medvedev been successful in attempting to answer those questions leveled against him ?
" from medvedev 's point of view , it 's probably been quite a successful year , " sam greene , the deputy director for operations at the carnegie endowment for international peace in moscow , told deutsche welle .
" this dual system of government which was put together – with medvedev as president and putin as prime minister – has not been without its problems but it 's worked relatively well .
it 's kept the ruling elite relatively cohesive and both medvedev and putin have remained popular politically and are seen as relatively legitimate both at home and internationally .
so it has been a success story for the experiment – which is what this presidency with putin as prime minister is ; a huge political experiment .
" but from a policy perspective , in terms of the reforms that medvedev talked about prior to becoming president ; strengthening the rule of law , diversifying the economy – there really have n't been any policy successes , " he added .
" his rhetoric has been very good .
he speaks very ably on the rule of law , on democracy , on economic liberalism but there was a lot of good rhetoric from putin on these issues for eight years and we did n't see any progress in that direction from him either . "
criticism stems from lack of reform progress much of the analysis of medvedev 's first year in power focuses on these promised reforms and the progress – or lack thereof – that russia has made in the spheres of democracy , human rights and press freedom .
according to professor margot light , a russia expert at the center for the study of global governance at the london school of economics , medvedev has fallen short of the optimists ' expectations .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : medvedev was initially against khodorkovsky 's second trial " there have been many words but very few deeds , " she said .
" medvedev came to power with everyone saying that he was far more liberal than putin .
in fact there has been very little sign of this .
it 's only been in the last couple of weeks that he 's started to talk the liberal talk , by giving an interview to an opposition newspaper , for example .
but apart from that there have been very little progress .
there has been the second trial of -lrb- jailed russian oil oligarch mikhail -rrb- khodorkovsky , even though medvedev himself seemed to be against it ; the electronic media is no freer than it was before he came to power and the non-governmental organizations are still having a tough time so there a very few signs that he has made much progress on the democratization front . "
meanwhile , amnesty international declared on the president 's first anniversary that little had been done to improve human rights in russia since he came to power .
in a statement released on thursday , amnesty said that in some areas the situation has deteriorated despite initial improvements , specifically in relation to attacks against lawyers , journalists and opposition activists which it said were on the rise .
sam greene agrees .
" the situation with the press has n't got any better , in fact in some cases it has actually gotten worse , " he said .
" we 've seen more violence against the press .
this is not state-sponsored violence but it 's part of the current climate and it is part of the responsibility of the state to improve the atmosphere and to make clear that violence against the media will not be tolerated .
" in terms of democracy , there was some talk about reforms to the electoral laws but they 've been slow in coming , " he added .
" we saw municipal elections around the country in which the ruling party continued to dominate , continued to rely on administrative resources and its ability to manipulate the system .
we saw this very clearly in the recent mayoral elections in sochi just like month . "
leadership partners still hugely popular in russia despite these criticisms , neither medvedev nor putin has suffered a serious reversal in popularity within the populace .
in fact , both retain huge support within russia .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : medvedev is gaining the kind of star status putin enjoys " medvedev enjoys very high ratings but the problem has always been that russians appear to prefer order to justice , " light said .
" russians are in favor of tough measures if they believe that those tough measures actually make the country more orderly .
so the president and putin still enjoy enormous support from the population . "
sam greene admits that medvedev and putin may have seen a minor dip in popularity but this is mainly due to the current economic crisis , which has seen unemployment in russia increase and income decrease , and not because of any democratic or liberal failures .
but greene believes that the population does n't hold the leadership partners responsible for its economic woes .
“ the people do n't blame medvedev and putin for these problems nor do they really expect the government or medvedev to be able to do much about them , " he said .
" the people are quite pragmatic , if not cynical , about the russian government 's ability to deal with this crisis . "
while medvedev 's polices have been increasingly scrutinized since he came to power , the partnership agreement struck between the president and his prime minister has also come under close inspection during this first year .
questions remain over who really is the boss bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the partnership has to and will endure , say experts the state of the two men 's relationship has been the subject of intense speculation lately as medvedev has grown into his role and repeated reports of an imminent split between the two have begun to circulate .
but both sam greene and margot light believe the partnership will endure .
" i think there was a very clear arrangement between the two of them ahead of their presidential election under which it was agreed that they were playing on the same team and playing the same role which was to maintain the outward legitimacy and stability of the political system and to mediate conflict between the various groups in the elite , " greene said .
" i would n't expect them to work at cross purposes unless there was a real split between the powerful elite in the country .
there seems to be a broad consensus that this current system needs to continue so i think the relationship between medvedev and putin will remain stable .
the only thing that 's changed is that medvedev has become a bit more comfortable in the position , has begun to understand what he can and can not do and become more confident with his rhetoric and his public persona . "
" there have been lots of attempts to find cracks between them , " light added .
" i think it 's fanciful .
i see no cracks between them .
if medvedev was there just to hold the place for putin until he could run again , the danger was always that medvedev would like the taste of power and decide he wanted to keep it for himself .
i see no sign that this has happened – yet , at any rate .
" however , internationally , medvedev is still seen very much as an instrument of putin 's policy , " light concluded .
" although he fulfills all the roles the constitution affords to the president , i still think there is a very strong feeling internationally that putin is making the decisions and medvedev is simply doing his bidding . "
author : nick amies editor chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de pro-kremlin candidate wins sochi mayoral poll amid claims of fraud amid claims of fraud , anatoly pakhomov , the pro-kremlin candidate in mayoral polls for the russian city of sochi , won a landslide victory in an election seen as a test of the political climate under president medvedev .
-lrb- 27.04.2009 -rrb- critics call putin treason bill means to quash opposition human rights organizations have criticized a new bill that would abolish jury trials for people suspected of treason , hostage-taking , organizing mass disturbances and several other serious crimes .
-lrb- 18.12.2008 -rrb- opinion : russia 's power duo offers tenuous political stability it 's an action-packed week in russian politics with dmitry medvedev and vladimir putin taking up their respective offices .
yet everything is not as rosy as it might appear , says deutsche welle 's ingo mannteufel .
-lrb- 05.05.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live politics russian prime minister vladimir putin appears determined to get back at the helm again as president .
listen to the report postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
it simply is n't cricket are the gay games necessary ?
love parade - the end of an era oracle paul takes the plunge venturing into mafia turf europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
doubts remain over medvedev 's power and policy after first year in office -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 03.04.2011 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de russia -pipe- 07.05.2009 doubts remain over medvedev 's power and policy after first year in office großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : medvedev has had a busy first 12 months in power russian president dmitry medvedev marks the one-year anniversary of his coming to power on may 7 .
twelve months on , questions and doubts still remain over his legitimacy and his policies . global opinion was divided when dmitry medvedev became russian president on may 7 last year .
some saw the new leader as a puppet of vladimir putin , his predecessor and the man who medvedev had served loyally throughout his two terms in office .
others saw the incoming president as a man who could drive russia down a more liberal and democratic road , and reverse decades of state oppression .
one year on – a year during which medvedev has waged his first war and has been thrust into the forefront of the worst global economic crisis for over 80 years – questions and doubts still remain over whether medvedev is really the man leading russia and if he is , whether he is the right man to reform his nation .
so to what extent has medvedev been successful in attempting to answer those questions leveled against him ?
" from medvedev 's point of view , it 's probably been quite a successful year , " sam greene , the deputy director for operations at the carnegie endowment for international peace in moscow , told deutsche welle .
" this dual system of government which was put together – with medvedev as president and putin as prime minister – has not been without its problems but it 's worked relatively well .
it 's kept the ruling elite relatively cohesive and both medvedev and putin have remained popular politically and are seen as relatively legitimate both at home and internationally .
so it has been a success story for the experiment – which is what this presidency with putin as prime minister is ; a huge political experiment .
" but from a policy perspective , in terms of the reforms that medvedev talked about prior to becoming president ; strengthening the rule of law , diversifying the economy – there really have n't been any policy successes , " he added .
" his rhetoric has been very good .
he speaks very ably on the rule of law , on democracy , on economic liberalism but there was a lot of good rhetoric from putin on these issues for eight years and we did n't see any progress in that direction from him either . "
criticism stems from lack of reform progress much of the analysis of medvedev 's first year in power focuses on these promised reforms and the progress – or lack thereof – that russia has made in the spheres of democracy , human rights and press freedom .
according to professor margot light , a russia expert at the center for the study of global governance at the london school of economics , medvedev has fallen short of the optimists ' expectations .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : medvedev was initially against khodorkovsky 's second trial " there have been many words but very few deeds , " she said .
" medvedev came to power with everyone saying that he was far more liberal than putin .
in fact there has been very little sign of this .
it 's only been in the last couple of weeks that he 's started to talk the liberal talk , by giving an interview to an opposition newspaper , for example .
but apart from that there have been very little progress .
there has been the second trial of -lrb- jailed russian oil oligarch mikhail -rrb- khodorkovsky , even though medvedev himself seemed to be against it ; the electronic media is no freer than it was before he came to power and the non-governmental organizations are still having a tough time so there a very few signs that he has made much progress on the democratization front . "
meanwhile , amnesty international declared on the president 's first anniversary that little had been done to improve human rights in russia since he came to power .
in a statement released on thursday , amnesty said that in some areas the situation has deteriorated despite initial improvements , specifically in relation to attacks against lawyers , journalists and opposition activists which it said were on the rise .
sam greene agrees .
" the situation with the press has n't got any better , in fact in some cases it has actually gotten worse , " he said .
" we 've seen more violence against the press .
this is not state-sponsored violence but it 's part of the current climate and it is part of the responsibility of the state to improve the atmosphere and to make clear that violence against the media will not be tolerated .
" in terms of democracy , there was some talk about reforms to the electoral laws but they 've been slow in coming , " he added .
" we saw municipal elections around the country in which the ruling party continued to dominate , continued to rely on administrative resources and its ability to manipulate the system .
we saw this very clearly in the recent mayoral elections in sochi just like month . "
leadership partners still hugely popular in russia despite these criticisms , neither medvedev nor putin has suffered a serious reversal in popularity within the populace .
in fact , both retain huge support within russia .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : medvedev is gaining the kind of star status putin enjoys " medvedev enjoys very high ratings but the problem has always been that russians appear to prefer order to justice , " light said .
" russians are in favor of tough measures if they believe that those tough measures actually make the country more orderly .
so the president and putin still enjoy enormous support from the population . "
sam greene admits that medvedev and putin may have seen a minor dip in popularity but this is mainly due to the current economic crisis , which has seen unemployment in russia increase and income decrease , and not because of any democratic or liberal failures .
but greene believes that the population does n't hold the leadership partners responsible for its economic woes .
“ the people do n't blame medvedev and putin for these problems nor do they really expect the government or medvedev to be able to do much about them , " he said .
" the people are quite pragmatic , if not cynical , about the russian government 's ability to deal with this crisis . "
while medvedev 's polices have been increasingly scrutinized since he came to power , the partnership agreement struck between the president and his prime minister has also come under close inspection during this first year .
questions remain over who really is the boss bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the partnership has to and will endure , say experts the state of the two men 's relationship has been the subject of intense speculation lately as medvedev has grown into his role and repeated reports of an imminent split between the two have begun to circulate .
but both sam greene and margot light believe the partnership will endure .
" i think there was a very clear arrangement between the two of them ahead of their presidential election under which it was agreed that they were playing on the same team and playing the same role which was to maintain the outward legitimacy and stability of the political system and to mediate conflict between the various groups in the elite , " greene said .
" i would n't expect them to work at cross purposes unless there was a real split between the powerful elite in the country .
there seems to be a broad consensus that this current system needs to continue so i think the relationship between medvedev and putin will remain stable .
the only thing that 's changed is that medvedev has become a bit more comfortable in the position , has begun to understand what he can and can not do and become more confident with his rhetoric and his public persona . "
" there have been lots of attempts to find cracks between them , " light added .
" i think it 's fanciful .
i see no cracks between them .
if medvedev was there just to hold the place for putin until he could run again , the danger was always that medvedev would like the taste of power and decide he wanted to keep it for himself .
i see no sign that this has happened – yet , at any rate .
" however , internationally , medvedev is still seen very much as an instrument of putin 's policy , " light concluded .
" although he fulfills all the roles the constitution affords to the president , i still think there is a very strong feeling internationally that putin is making the decisions and medvedev is simply doing his bidding . "
author : nick amies editor chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de pro-kremlin candidate wins sochi mayoral poll amid claims of fraud amid claims of fraud , anatoly pakhomov , the pro-kremlin candidate in mayoral polls for the russian city of sochi , won a landslide victory in an election seen as a test of the political climate under president medvedev .
-lrb- 27.04.2009 -rrb- critics call putin treason bill means to quash opposition human rights organizations have criticized a new bill that would abolish jury trials for people suspected of treason , hostage-taking , organizing mass disturbances and several other serious crimes .
-lrb- 18.12.2008 -rrb- opinion : russia 's power duo offers tenuous political stability it 's an action-packed week in russian politics with dmitry medvedev and vladimir putin taking up their respective offices .
yet everything is not as rosy as it might appear , says deutsche welle 's ingo mannteufel .
-lrb- 05.05.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live im focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
italians hard hit by plastic bag ban east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
doubts remain over medvedev 's power and policy after first year in office -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 24.01.2011 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de russia -pipe- 07.05.2009 doubts remain over medvedev 's power and policy after first year in office großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : medvedev has had a busy first 12 months in power russian president dmitry medvedev marks the one-year anniversary of his coming to power on may 7 .
twelve months on , questions and doubts still remain over his legitimacy and his policies . global opinion was divided when dmitry medvedev became russian president on may 7 last year .
some saw the new leader as a puppet of vladimir putin , his predecessor and the man who medvedev had served loyally throughout his two terms in office .
others saw the incoming president as a man who could drive russia down a more liberal and democratic road , and reverse decades of state oppression .
one year on – a year during which medvedev has waged his first war and has been thrust into the forefront of the worst global economic crisis for over 80 years – questions and doubts still remain over whether medvedev is really the man leading russia and if he is , whether he is the right man to reform his nation .
so to what extent has medvedev been successful in attempting to answer those questions leveled against him ?
" from medvedev 's point of view , it 's probably been quite a successful year , " sam greene , the deputy director for operations at the carnegie endowment for international peace in moscow , told deutsche welle .
" this dual system of government which was put together – with medvedev as president and putin as prime minister – has not been without its problems but it 's worked relatively well .
it 's kept the ruling elite relatively cohesive and both medvedev and putin have remained popular politically and are seen as relatively legitimate both at home and internationally .
so it has been a success story for the experiment – which is what this presidency with putin as prime minister is ; a huge political experiment .
" but from a policy perspective , in terms of the reforms that medvedev talked about prior to becoming president ; strengthening the rule of law , diversifying the economy – there really have n't been any policy successes , " he added .
" his rhetoric has been very good .
he speaks very ably on the rule of law , on democracy , on economic liberalism but there was a lot of good rhetoric from putin on these issues for eight years and we did n't see any progress in that direction from him either . "
criticism stems from lack of reform progress much of the analysis of medvedev 's first year in power focuses on these promised reforms and the progress – or lack thereof – that russia has made in the spheres of democracy , human rights and press freedom .
according to professor margot light , a russia expert at the center for the study of global governance at the london school of economics , medvedev has fallen short of the optimists ' expectations .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : medvedev was initially against khodorkovsky 's second trial " there have been many words but very few deeds , " she said .
" medvedev came to power with everyone saying that he was far more liberal than putin .
in fact there has been very little sign of this .
it 's only been in the last couple of weeks that he 's started to talk the liberal talk , by giving an interview to an opposition newspaper , for example .
but apart from that there have been very little progress .
there has been the second trial of -lrb- jailed russian oil oligarch mikhail -rrb- khodorkovsky , even though medvedev himself seemed to be against it ; the electronic media is no freer than it was before he came to power and the non-governmental organizations are still having a tough time so there a very few signs that he has made much progress on the democratization front . "
meanwhile , amnesty international declared on the president 's first anniversary that little had been done to improve human rights in russia since he came to power .
in a statement released on thursday , amnesty said that in some areas the situation has deteriorated despite initial improvements , specifically in relation to attacks against lawyers , journalists and opposition activists which it said were on the rise .
sam greene agrees .
" the situation with the press has n't got any better , in fact in some cases it has actually gotten worse , " he said .
" we 've seen more violence against the press .
this is not state-sponsored violence but it 's part of the current climate and it is part of the responsibility of the state to improve the atmosphere and to make clear that violence against the media will not be tolerated .
" in terms of democracy , there was some talk about reforms to the electoral laws but they 've been slow in coming , " he added .
" we saw municipal elections around the country in which the ruling party continued to dominate , continued to rely on administrative resources and its ability to manipulate the system .
we saw this very clearly in the recent mayoral elections in sochi just like month . "
leadership partners still hugely popular in russia despite these criticisms , neither medvedev nor putin has suffered a serious reversal in popularity within the populace .
in fact , both retain huge support within russia .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : medvedev is gaining the kind of star status putin enjoys " medvedev enjoys very high ratings but the problem has always been that russians appear to prefer order to justice , " light said .
" russians are in favor of tough measures if they believe that those tough measures actually make the country more orderly .
so the president and putin still enjoy enormous support from the population . "
sam greene admits that medvedev and putin may have seen a minor dip in popularity but this is mainly due to the current economic crisis , which has seen unemployment in russia increase and income decrease , and not because of any democratic or liberal failures .
but greene believes that the population does n't hold the leadership partners responsible for its economic woes .
“ the people do n't blame medvedev and putin for these problems nor do they really expect the government or medvedev to be able to do much about them , " he said .
" the people are quite pragmatic , if not cynical , about the russian government 's ability to deal with this crisis . "
while medvedev 's polices have been increasingly scrutinized since he came to power , the partnership agreement struck between the president and his prime minister has also come under close inspection during this first year .
questions remain over who really is the boss bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the partnership has to and will endure , say experts the state of the two men 's relationship has been the subject of intense speculation lately as medvedev has grown into his role and repeated reports of an imminent split between the two have begun to circulate .
but both sam greene and margot light believe the partnership will endure .
" i think there was a very clear arrangement between the two of them ahead of their presidential election under which it was agreed that they were playing on the same team and playing the same role which was to maintain the outward legitimacy and stability of the political system and to mediate conflict between the various groups in the elite , " greene said .
" i would n't expect them to work at cross purposes unless there was a real split between the powerful elite in the country .
there seems to be a broad consensus that this current system needs to continue so i think the relationship between medvedev and putin will remain stable .
the only thing that 's changed is that medvedev has become a bit more comfortable in the position , has begun to understand what he can and can not do and become more confident with his rhetoric and his public persona . "
" there have been lots of attempts to find cracks between them , " light added .
" i think it 's fanciful .
i see no cracks between them .
if medvedev was there just to hold the place for putin until he could run again , the danger was always that medvedev would like the taste of power and decide he wanted to keep it for himself .
i see no sign that this has happened – yet , at any rate .
" however , internationally , medvedev is still seen very much as an instrument of putin 's policy , " light concluded .
" although he fulfills all the roles the constitution affords to the president , i still think there is a very strong feeling internationally that putin is making the decisions and medvedev is simply doing his bidding . "
author : nick amies editor chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de pro-kremlin candidate wins sochi mayoral poll amid claims of fraud amid claims of fraud , anatoly pakhomov , the pro-kremlin candidate in mayoral polls for the russian city of sochi , won a landslide victory in an election seen as a test of the political climate under president medvedev .
-lrb- 27.04.2009 -rrb- critics call putin treason bill means to quash opposition human rights organizations have criticized a new bill that would abolish jury trials for people suspected of treason , hostage-taking , organizing mass disturbances and several other serious crimes .
-lrb- 18.12.2008 -rrb- opinion : russia 's power duo offers tenuous political stability it 's an action-packed week in russian politics with dmitry medvedev and vladimir putin taking up their respective offices .
yet everything is not as rosy as it might appear , says deutsche welle 's ingo mannteufel .
-lrb- 05.05.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live learning by ear listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
italians hard hit by plastic bag ban east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
doubts remain over medvedev 's power and policy after first year in office -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 02.12.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de russia -pipe- 07.05.2009 doubts remain over medvedev 's power and policy after first year in office großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : medvedev has had a busy first 12 months in power russian president dmitry medvedev marks the one-year anniversary of his coming to power on may 7 .
twelve months on , questions and doubts still remain over his legitimacy and his policies . global opinion was divided when dmitry medvedev became russian president on may 7 last year .
some saw the new leader as a puppet of vladimir putin , his predecessor and the man who medvedev had served loyally throughout his two terms in office .
others saw the incoming president as a man who could drive russia down a more liberal and democratic road , and reverse decades of state oppression .
one year on – a year during which medvedev has waged his first war and has been thrust into the forefront of the worst global economic crisis for over 80 years – questions and doubts still remain over whether medvedev is really the man leading russia and if he is , whether he is the right man to reform his nation .
so to what extent has medvedev been successful in attempting to answer those questions leveled against him ?
" from medvedev 's point of view , it 's probably been quite a successful year , " sam greene , the deputy director for operations at the carnegie endowment for international peace in moscow , told deutsche welle .
" this dual system of government which was put together – with medvedev as president and putin as prime minister – has not been without its problems but it 's worked relatively well .
it 's kept the ruling elite relatively cohesive and both medvedev and putin have remained popular politically and are seen as relatively legitimate both at home and internationally .
so it has been a success story for the experiment – which is what this presidency with putin as prime minister is ; a huge political experiment .
" but from a policy perspective , in terms of the reforms that medvedev talked about prior to becoming president ; strengthening the rule of law , diversifying the economy – there really have n't been any policy successes , " he added .
" his rhetoric has been very good .
he speaks very ably on the rule of law , on democracy , on economic liberalism but there was a lot of good rhetoric from putin on these issues for eight years and we did n't see any progress in that direction from him either . "
criticism stems from lack of reform progress much of the analysis of medvedev 's first year in power focuses on these promised reforms and the progress – or lack thereof – that russia has made in the spheres of democracy , human rights and press freedom .
according to professor margot light , a russia expert at the center for the study of global governance at the london school of economics , medvedev has fallen short of the optimists ' expectations .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : medvedev was initially against khodorkovsky 's second trial " there have been many words but very few deeds , " she said .
" medvedev came to power with everyone saying that he was far more liberal than putin .
in fact there has been very little sign of this .
it 's only been in the last couple of weeks that he 's started to talk the liberal talk , by giving an interview to an opposition newspaper , for example .
but apart from that there have been very little progress .
there has been the second trial of -lrb- jailed russian oil oligarch mikhail -rrb- khodorkovsky , even though medvedev himself seemed to be against it ; the electronic media is no freer than it was before he came to power and the non-governmental organizations are still having a tough time so there a very few signs that he has made much progress on the democratization front . "
meanwhile , amnesty international declared on the president 's first anniversary that little had been done to improve human rights in russia since he came to power .
in a statement released on thursday , amnesty said that in some areas the situation has deteriorated despite initial improvements , specifically in relation to attacks against lawyers , journalists and opposition activists which it said were on the rise .
sam greene agrees .
" the situation with the press has n't got any better , in fact in some cases it has actually gotten worse , " he said .
" we 've seen more violence against the press .
this is not state-sponsored violence but it 's part of the current climate and it is part of the responsibility of the state to improve the atmosphere and to make clear that violence against the media will not be tolerated .
" in terms of democracy , there was some talk about reforms to the electoral laws but they 've been slow in coming , " he added .
" we saw municipal elections around the country in which the ruling party continued to dominate , continued to rely on administrative resources and its ability to manipulate the system .
we saw this very clearly in the recent mayoral elections in sochi just like month . "
leadership partners still hugely popular in russia despite these criticisms , neither medvedev nor putin has suffered a serious reversal in popularity within the populace .
in fact , both retain huge support within russia .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : medvedev is gaining the kind of star status putin enjoys " medvedev enjoys very high ratings but the problem has always been that russians appear to prefer order to justice , " light said .
" russians are in favor of tough measures if they believe that those tough measures actually make the country more orderly .
so the president and putin still enjoy enormous support from the population . "
sam greene admits that medvedev and putin may have seen a minor dip in popularity but this is mainly due to the current economic crisis , which has seen unemployment in russia increase and income decrease , and not because of any democratic or liberal failures .
but greene believes that the population does n't hold the leadership partners responsible for its economic woes .
“ the people do n't blame medvedev and putin for these problems nor do they really expect the government or medvedev to be able to do much about them , " he said .
" the people are quite pragmatic , if not cynical , about the russian government 's ability to deal with this crisis . "
while medvedev 's polices have been increasingly scrutinized since he came to power , the partnership agreement struck between the president and his prime minister has also come under close inspection during this first year .
questions remain over who really is the boss bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the partnership has to and will endure , say experts the state of the two men 's relationship has been the subject of intense speculation lately as medvedev has grown into his role and repeated reports of an imminent split between the two have begun to circulate .
but both sam greene and margot light believe the partnership will endure .
" i think there was a very clear arrangement between the two of them ahead of their presidential election under which it was agreed that they were playing on the same team and playing the same role which was to maintain the outward legitimacy and stability of the political system and to mediate conflict between the various groups in the elite , " greene said .
" i would n't expect them to work at cross purposes unless there was a real split between the powerful elite in the country .
there seems to be a broad consensus that this current system needs to continue so i think the relationship between medvedev and putin will remain stable .
the only thing that 's changed is that medvedev has become a bit more comfortable in the position , has begun to understand what he can and can not do and become more confident with his rhetoric and his public persona . "
" there have been lots of attempts to find cracks between them , " light added .
" i think it 's fanciful .
i see no cracks between them .
if medvedev was there just to hold the place for putin until he could run again , the danger was always that medvedev would like the taste of power and decide he wanted to keep it for himself .
i see no sign that this has happened – yet , at any rate .
" however , internationally , medvedev is still seen very much as an instrument of putin 's policy , " light concluded .
" although he fulfills all the roles the constitution affords to the president , i still think there is a very strong feeling internationally that putin is making the decisions and medvedev is simply doing his bidding . "
author : nick amies editor chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de pro-kremlin candidate wins sochi mayoral poll amid claims of fraud amid claims of fraud , anatoly pakhomov , the pro-kremlin candidate in mayoral polls for the russian city of sochi , won a landslide victory in an election seen as a test of the political climate under president medvedev .
-lrb- 27.04.2009 -rrb- critics call putin treason bill means to quash opposition human rights organizations have criticized a new bill that would abolish jury trials for people suspected of treason , hostage-taking , organizing mass disturbances and several other serious crimes .
-lrb- 18.12.2008 -rrb- opinion : russia 's power duo offers tenuous political stability it 's an action-packed week in russian politics with dmitry medvedev and vladimir putin taking up their respective offices .
yet everything is not as rosy as it might appear , says deutsche welle 's ingo mannteufel .
-lrb- 05.05.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
doubts remain over medvedev 's power and policy after first year in office -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 07.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de russia -pipe- 07.05.2009 doubts remain over medvedev 's power and policy after first year in office großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : medvedev has had a busy first 12 months in power russian president dmitry medvedev marks the one-year anniversary of his coming to power on may 7 .
twelve months on , questions and doubts still remain over his legitimacy and his policies . global opinion was divided when dmitry medvedev became russian president on may 7 last year .
some saw the new leader as a puppet of vladimir putin , his predecessor and the man who medvedev had served loyally throughout his two terms in office .
others saw the incoming president as a man who could drive russia down a more liberal and democratic road , and reverse decades of state oppression .
one year on – a year during which medvedev has waged his first war and has been thrust into the forefront of the worst global economic crisis for over 80 years – questions and doubts still remain over whether medvedev is really the man leading russia and if he is , whether he is the right man to reform his nation .
so to what extent has medvedev been successful in attempting to answer those questions leveled against him ?
" from medvedev 's point of view , it 's probably been quite a successful year , " sam greene , the deputy director for operations at the carnegie endowment for international peace in moscow , told deutsche welle .
" this dual system of government which was put together – with medvedev as president and putin as prime minister – has not been without its problems but it 's worked relatively well .
it 's kept the ruling elite relatively cohesive and both medvedev and putin have remained popular politically and are seen as relatively legitimate both at home and internationally .
so it has been a success story for the experiment – which is what this presidency with putin as prime minister is ; a huge political experiment .
" but from a policy perspective , in terms of the reforms that medvedev talked about prior to becoming president ; strengthening the rule of law , diversifying the economy – there really have n't been any policy successes , " he added .
" his rhetoric has been very good .
he speaks very ably on the rule of law , on democracy , on economic liberalism but there was a lot of good rhetoric from putin on these issues for eight years and we did n't see any progress in that direction from him either . "
criticism stems from lack of reform progress much of the analysis of medvedev 's first year in power focuses on these promised reforms and the progress – or lack thereof – that russia has made in the spheres of democracy , human rights and press freedom .
according to professor margot light , a russia expert at the center for the study of global governance at the london school of economics , medvedev has fallen short of the optimists ' expectations .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : medvedev was initially against khodorkovsky 's second trial " there have been many words but very few deeds , " she said .
" medvedev came to power with everyone saying that he was far more liberal than putin .
in fact there has been very little sign of this .
it 's only been in the last couple of weeks that he 's started to talk the liberal talk , by giving an interview to an opposition newspaper , for example .
but apart from that there have been very little progress .
there has been the second trial of -lrb- jailed russian oil oligarch mikhail -rrb- khodorkovsky , even though medvedev himself seemed to be against it ; the electronic media is no freer than it was before he came to power and the non-governmental organizations are still having a tough time so there a very few signs that he has made much progress on the democratization front . "
meanwhile , amnesty international declared on the president 's first anniversary that little had been done to improve human rights in russia since he came to power .
in a statement released on thursday , amnesty said that in some areas the situation has deteriorated despite initial improvements , specifically in relation to attacks against lawyers , journalists and opposition activists which it said were on the rise .
sam greene agrees .
" the situation with the press has n't got any better , in fact in some cases it has actually gotten worse , " he said .
" we 've seen more violence against the press .
this is not state-sponsored violence but it 's part of the current climate and it is part of the responsibility of the state to improve the atmosphere and to make clear that violence against the media will not be tolerated .
" in terms of democracy , there was some talk about reforms to the electoral laws but they 've been slow in coming , " he added .
" we saw municipal elections around the country in which the ruling party continued to dominate , continued to rely on administrative resources and its ability to manipulate the system .
we saw this very clearly in the recent mayoral elections in sochi just like month . "
leadership partners still hugely popular in russia despite these criticisms , neither medvedev nor putin has suffered a serious reversal in popularity within the populace .
in fact , both retain huge support within russia .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : medvedev is gaining the kind of star status putin enjoys " medvedev enjoys very high ratings but the problem has always been that russians appear to prefer order to justice , " light said .
" russians are in favor of tough measures if they believe that those tough measures actually make the country more orderly .
so the president and putin still enjoy enormous support from the population . "
sam greene admits that medvedev and putin may have seen a minor dip in popularity but this is mainly due to the current economic crisis , which has seen unemployment in russia increase and income decrease , and not because of any democratic or liberal failures .
but greene believes that the population does n't hold the leadership partners responsible for its economic woes .
“ the people do n't blame medvedev and putin for these problems nor do they really expect the government or medvedev to be able to do much about them , " he said .
" the people are quite pragmatic , if not cynical , about the russian government 's ability to deal with this crisis . "
while medvedev 's polices have been increasingly scrutinized since he came to power , the partnership agreement struck between the president and his prime minister has also come under close inspection during this first year .
questions remain over who really is the boss bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the partnership has to and will endure , say experts the state of the two men 's relationship has been the subject of intense speculation lately as medvedev has grown into his role and repeated reports of an imminent split between the two have begun to circulate .
but both sam greene and margot light believe the partnership will endure .
" i think there was a very clear arrangement between the two of them ahead of their presidential election under which it was agreed that they were playing on the same team and playing the same role which was to maintain the outward legitimacy and stability of the political system and to mediate conflict between the various groups in the elite , " greene said .
" i would n't expect them to work at cross purposes unless there was a real split between the powerful elite in the country .
there seems to be a broad consensus that this current system needs to continue so i think the relationship between medvedev and putin will remain stable .
the only thing that 's changed is that medvedev has become a bit more comfortable in the position , has begun to understand what he can and can not do and become more confident with his rhetoric and his public persona . "
" there have been lots of attempts to find cracks between them , " light added .
" i think it 's fanciful .
i see no cracks between them .
if medvedev was there just to hold the place for putin until he could run again , the danger was always that medvedev would like the taste of power and decide he wanted to keep it for himself .
i see no sign that this has happened – yet , at any rate .
" however , internationally , medvedev is still seen very much as an instrument of putin 's policy , " light concluded .
" although he fulfills all the roles the constitution affords to the president , i still think there is a very strong feeling internationally that putin is making the decisions and medvedev is simply doing his bidding . "
author : nick amies editor chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de pro-kremlin candidate wins sochi mayoral poll amid claims of fraud amid claims of fraud , anatoly pakhomov , the pro-kremlin candidate in mayoral polls for the russian city of sochi , won a landslide victory in an election seen as a test of the political climate under president medvedev .
-lrb- 27.04.2009 -rrb- critics call putin treason bill means to quash opposition human rights organizations have criticized a new bill that would abolish jury trials for people suspected of treason , hostage-taking , organizing mass disturbances and several other serious crimes .
-lrb- 18.12.2008 -rrb- opinion : russia 's power duo offers tenuous political stability it 's an action-packed week in russian politics with dmitry medvedev and vladimir putin taking up their respective offices .
yet everything is not as rosy as it might appear , says deutsche welle 's ingo mannteufel .
-lrb- 05.05.2008 -rrb- 9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live in focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
terrorism europeans give mostly positive reactions to the killing of osama bin laden .
listen to the audio bundesliga near the end dw sports pundits have just two weeks left to hit the jackpot with their picks .
here goes nothing .
rescued one year after greece was bailed out by the eu and imf , debt problems still persist .
watch the video poptastic sweden 's past success with the eurovision song contest has given it high expectations .
listen to the audio postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
french burqa ban fits secular ideals is berlusconi giving italy a bad name ?
a dubious record for belgium inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
european central bank cuts rates to record low -pipe- nrs-import -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de economy -pipe- 07.05.2009 european central bank cuts rates to record low großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : jean-claude trichet , the ecb president .
the european central bank has cut its main interest rate to a record low one percent .
the cut was the fourth this year by the frankfurt-based bank , and it may not be the last . ecb president jean-claude trichet announced the cut on thursday , saying the bank was planning to shore up financial market confidence and boost liquidity by extending the period over which the ecb lends funds to banks at fixed rates from 6 months to 12 months and purchasing bonds .
the quarter point rate cut was the fourth this year by the frankfurt-based bank , which sets monetary policy for countries that share the euro currency .
trichet said that inflationary pressures had diminished in the economic downturn , but that the euro-zone economy appeared to be stabilising .
" the latest economic data suggest tentative signs of a stabilisation at very low levels after a first quarter which was significantly weaker than expected , " he told the news conference after the bank 's decision .
" the world economy including the eurozone is still undergoing a severe downturn with the prospect of both external and domestic demand remaining very weak over 2009 before gradually recovering in the course of 2010 , " trichet said .
he also said inflation expectations were consistent with keeping it in line with the bank 's target of price growth at or just below 2 percent .
eurozone inflation is at a record low of 0.6 percent and although some economic data are showing signs of stabilisation , the european commission this week forecast the eurozone 's economy would shrink by 4.0 percent this year .
the ecb has cut rates from 4.25 percent since last october .
trichet indicated that thursday 's rate cut was not necessarily the last . ch / pfd , rtr / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de eu agrees to boost aid to struggling member countries the european union has agreed to double the amount of a bailout fund to 50 billion euros -lrb- $ 67 billion -rrb- .
the fund was created to provide emergency loans to eastern eu countries hit hard by the financial crisis .
-lrb- 05.05.2009 -rrb- japanese pm lauds swift german reaction to financial crisis japanese prime minister taro aso was in berlin on tuesday as part of a three-day trip to europe .
the global economic downturn was on aso 's mind as he met with german chancellor angela merkel .
-lrb- 05.05.2009 -rrb- spring employment boost fails to materialize a much-hoped-for springtime jobs boost has failed to materialize , official german figures show .
-lrb- 30.04.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
european central bank cuts rates to record low -pipe- nrs-import -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 01.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de economy -pipe- 07.05.2009 european central bank cuts rates to record low großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : jean-claude trichet , the ecb president .
the european central bank has cut its main interest rate to a record low one percent .
the cut was the fourth this year by the frankfurt-based bank , and it may not be the last . ecb president jean-claude trichet announced the cut on thursday , saying the bank was planning to shore up financial market confidence and boost liquidity by extending the period over which the ecb lends funds to banks at fixed rates from 6 months to 12 months and purchasing bonds .
the quarter point rate cut was the fourth this year by the frankfurt-based bank , which sets monetary policy for countries that share the euro currency .
trichet said that inflationary pressures had diminished in the economic downturn , but that the euro-zone economy appeared to be stabilising .
" the latest economic data suggest tentative signs of a stabilisation at very low levels after a first quarter which was significantly weaker than expected , " he told the news conference after the bank 's decision .
" the world economy including the eurozone is still undergoing a severe downturn with the prospect of both external and domestic demand remaining very weak over 2009 before gradually recovering in the course of 2010 , " trichet said .
he also said inflation expectations were consistent with keeping it in line with the bank 's target of price growth at or just below 2 percent .
eurozone inflation is at a record low of 0.6 percent and although some economic data are showing signs of stabilisation , the european commission this week forecast the eurozone 's economy would shrink by 4.0 percent this year .
the ecb has cut rates from 4.25 percent since last october .
trichet indicated that thursday 's rate cut was not necessarily the last . ch / pfd , rtr / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de eu agrees to boost aid to struggling member countries the european union has agreed to double the amount of a bailout fund to 50 billion euros -lrb- $ 67 billion -rrb- .
the fund was created to provide emergency loans to eastern eu countries hit hard by the financial crisis .
-lrb- 05.05.2009 -rrb- japanese pm lauds swift german reaction to financial crisis japanese prime minister taro aso was in berlin on tuesday as part of a three-day trip to europe .
the global economic downturn was on aso 's mind as he met with german chancellor angela merkel .
-lrb- 05.05.2009 -rrb- spring employment boost fails to materialize a much-hoped-for springtime jobs boost has failed to materialize , official german figures show .
-lrb- 30.04.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
european central bank cuts rates to record low -pipe- nrs-import -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 23.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de economy -pipe- 07.05.2009 european central bank cuts rates to record low großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : jean-claude trichet , the ecb president .
the european central bank has cut its main interest rate to a record low one percent .
the cut was the fourth this year by the frankfurt-based bank , and it may not be the last . ecb president jean-claude trichet announced the cut on thursday , saying the bank was planning to shore up financial market confidence and boost liquidity by extending the period over which the ecb lends funds to banks at fixed rates from 6 months to 12 months and purchasing bonds .
the quarter point rate cut was the fourth this year by the frankfurt-based bank , which sets monetary policy for countries that share the euro currency .
trichet said that inflationary pressures had diminished in the economic downturn , but that the euro-zone economy appeared to be stabilising .
" the latest economic data suggest tentative signs of a stabilisation at very low levels after a first quarter which was significantly weaker than expected , " he told the news conference after the bank 's decision .
" the world economy including the eurozone is still undergoing a severe downturn with the prospect of both external and domestic demand remaining very weak over 2009 before gradually recovering in the course of 2010 , " trichet said .
he also said inflation expectations were consistent with keeping it in line with the bank 's target of price growth at or just below 2 percent .
eurozone inflation is at a record low of 0.6 percent and although some economic data are showing signs of stabilisation , the european commission this week forecast the eurozone 's economy would shrink by 4.0 percent this year .
the ecb has cut rates from 4.25 percent since last october .
trichet indicated that thursday 's rate cut was not necessarily the last . ch / pfd , rtr / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de eu agrees to boost aid to struggling member countries the european union has agreed to double the amount of a bailout fund to 50 billion euros -lrb- $ 67 billion -rrb- .
the fund was created to provide emergency loans to eastern eu countries hit hard by the financial crisis .
-lrb- 05.05.2009 -rrb- japanese pm lauds swift german reaction to financial crisis japanese prime minister taro aso was in berlin on tuesday as part of a three-day trip to europe .
the global economic downturn was on aso 's mind as he met with german chancellor angela merkel .
-lrb- 05.05.2009 -rrb- spring employment boost fails to materialize a much-hoped-for springtime jobs boost has failed to materialize , official german figures show .
-lrb- 30.04.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
european central bank cuts rates to record low -pipe- nrs-import -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 30.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de economy -pipe- 07.05.2009 european central bank cuts rates to record low großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : jean-claude trichet , the ecb president .
the european central bank has cut its main interest rate to a record low one percent .
the cut was the fourth this year by the frankfurt-based bank , and it may not be the last . ecb president jean-claude trichet announced the cut on thursday , saying the bank was planning to shore up financial market confidence and boost liquidity by extending the period over which the ecb lends funds to banks at fixed rates from 6 months to 12 months and purchasing bonds .
the quarter point rate cut was the fourth this year by the frankfurt-based bank , which sets monetary policy for countries that share the euro currency .
trichet said that inflationary pressures had diminished in the economic downturn , but that the euro-zone economy appeared to be stabilising .
" the latest economic data suggest tentative signs of a stabilisation at very low levels after a first quarter which was significantly weaker than expected , " he told the news conference after the bank 's decision .
" the world economy including the eurozone is still undergoing a severe downturn with the prospect of both external and domestic demand remaining very weak over 2009 before gradually recovering in the course of 2010 , " trichet said .
he also said inflation expectations were consistent with keeping it in line with the bank 's target of price growth at or just below 2 percent .
eurozone inflation is at a record low of 0.6 percent and although some economic data are showing signs of stabilisation , the european commission this week forecast the eurozone 's economy would shrink by 4.0 percent this year .
the ecb has cut rates from 4.25 percent since last october .
trichet indicated that thursday 's rate cut was not necessarily the last . ch / pfd , rtr / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de eu agrees to boost aid to struggling member countries the european union has agreed to double the amount of a bailout fund to 50 billion euros -lrb- $ 67 billion -rrb- .
the fund was created to provide emergency loans to eastern eu countries hit hard by the financial crisis .
-lrb- 05.05.2009 -rrb- japanese pm lauds swift german reaction to financial crisis japanese prime minister taro aso was in berlin on tuesday as part of a three-day trip to europe .
the global economic downturn was on aso 's mind as he met with german chancellor angela merkel .
-lrb- 05.05.2009 -rrb- spring employment boost fails to materialize a much-hoped-for springtime jobs boost has failed to materialize , official german figures show .
-lrb- 30.04.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
european central bank cuts rates to record low -pipe- nrs-import -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 15.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de economy -pipe- 07.05.2009 european central bank cuts rates to record low großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : jean-claude trichet , the ecb president .
the european central bank has cut its main interest rate to a record low one percent .
the cut was the fourth this year by the frankfurt-based bank , and it may not be the last . ecb president jean-claude trichet announced the cut on thursday , saying the bank was planning to shore up financial market confidence and boost liquidity by extending the period over which the ecb lends funds to banks at fixed rates from 6 months to 12 months and purchasing bonds .
the quarter point rate cut was the fourth this year by the frankfurt-based bank , which sets monetary policy for countries that share the euro currency .
trichet said that inflationary pressures had diminished in the economic downturn , but that the euro-zone economy appeared to be stabilising .
" the latest economic data suggest tentative signs of a stabilisation at very low levels after a first quarter which was significantly weaker than expected , " he told the news conference after the bank 's decision .
" the world economy including the eurozone is still undergoing a severe downturn with the prospect of both external and domestic demand remaining very weak over 2009 before gradually recovering in the course of 2010 , " trichet said .
he also said inflation expectations were consistent with keeping it in line with the bank 's target of price growth at or just below 2 percent .
eurozone inflation is at a record low of 0.6 percent and although some economic data are showing signs of stabilisation , the european commission this week forecast the eurozone 's economy would shrink by 4.0 percent this year .
the ecb has cut rates from 4.25 percent since last october .
trichet indicated that thursday 's rate cut was not necessarily the last . ch / pfd , rtr / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de eu agrees to boost aid to struggling member countries the european union has agreed to double the amount of a bailout fund to 50 billion euros -lrb- $ 67 billion -rrb- .
the fund was created to provide emergency loans to eastern eu countries hit hard by the financial crisis .
-lrb- 05.05.2009 -rrb- japanese pm lauds swift german reaction to financial crisis japanese prime minister taro aso was in berlin on tuesday as part of a three-day trip to europe .
the global economic downturn was on aso 's mind as he met with german chancellor angela merkel .
-lrb- 05.05.2009 -rrb- spring employment boost fails to materialize a much-hoped-for springtime jobs boost has failed to materialize , official german figures show .
-lrb- 30.04.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
european central bank cuts rates to record low -pipe- nrs-import -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 06.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de economy -pipe- 07.05.2009 european central bank cuts rates to record low großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : jean-claude trichet , the ecb president .
the european central bank has cut its main interest rate to a record low one percent .
the cut was the fourth this year by the frankfurt-based bank , and it may not be the last . ecb president jean-claude trichet announced the cut on thursday , saying the bank was planning to shore up financial market confidence and boost liquidity by extending the period over which the ecb lends funds to banks at fixed rates from 6 months to 12 months and purchasing bonds .
the quarter point rate cut was the fourth this year by the frankfurt-based bank , which sets monetary policy for countries that share the euro currency .
trichet said that inflationary pressures had diminished in the economic downturn , but that the euro-zone economy appeared to be stabilising .
" the latest economic data suggest tentative signs of a stabilisation at very low levels after a first quarter which was significantly weaker than expected , " he told the news conference after the bank 's decision .
" the world economy including the eurozone is still undergoing a severe downturn with the prospect of both external and domestic demand remaining very weak over 2009 before gradually recovering in the course of 2010 , " trichet said .
he also said inflation expectations were consistent with keeping it in line with the bank 's target of price growth at or just below 2 percent .
eurozone inflation is at a record low of 0.6 percent and although some economic data are showing signs of stabilisation , the european commission this week forecast the eurozone 's economy would shrink by 4.0 percent this year .
the ecb has cut rates from 4.25 percent since last october .
trichet indicated that thursday 's rate cut was not necessarily the last . ch / pfd , rtr / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de eu agrees to boost aid to struggling member countries the european union has agreed to double the amount of a bailout fund to 50 billion euros -lrb- $ 67 billion -rrb- .
the fund was created to provide emergency loans to eastern eu countries hit hard by the financial crisis .
-lrb- 05.05.2009 -rrb- japanese pm lauds swift german reaction to financial crisis japanese prime minister taro aso was in berlin on tuesday as part of a three-day trip to europe .
the global economic downturn was on aso 's mind as he met with german chancellor angela merkel .
-lrb- 05.05.2009 -rrb- spring employment boost fails to materialize a much-hoped-for springtime jobs boost has failed to materialize , official german figures show .
-lrb- 30.04.2009 -rrb- 9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
european central bank cuts rates to record low -pipe- nrs-import -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 26.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de economy -pipe- 07.05.2009 european central bank cuts rates to record low großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : jean-claude trichet , the ecb president .
the european central bank has cut its main interest rate to a record low one percent .
the cut was the fourth this year by the frankfurt-based bank , and it may not be the last . ecb president jean-claude trichet announced the cut on thursday , saying the bank was planning to shore up financial market confidence and boost liquidity by extending the period over which the ecb lends funds to banks at fixed rates from 6 months to 12 months and purchasing bonds .
the quarter point rate cut was the fourth this year by the frankfurt-based bank , which sets monetary policy for countries that share the euro currency .
trichet said that inflationary pressures had diminished in the economic downturn , but that the euro-zone economy appeared to be stabilising .
" the latest economic data suggest tentative signs of a stabilisation at very low levels after a first quarter which was significantly weaker than expected , " he told the news conference after the bank 's decision .
" the world economy including the eurozone is still undergoing a severe downturn with the prospect of both external and domestic demand remaining very weak over 2009 before gradually recovering in the course of 2010 , " trichet said .
he also said inflation expectations were consistent with keeping it in line with the bank 's target of price growth at or just below 2 percent .
eurozone inflation is at a record low of 0.6 percent and although some economic data are showing signs of stabilisation , the european commission this week forecast the eurozone 's economy would shrink by 4.0 percent this year .
the ecb has cut rates from 4.25 percent since last october .
trichet indicated that thursday 's rate cut was not necessarily the last . ch / pfd , rtr / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de eu agrees to boost aid to struggling member countries the european union has agreed to double the amount of a bailout fund to 50 billion euros -lrb- $ 67 billion -rrb- .
the fund was created to provide emergency loans to eastern eu countries hit hard by the financial crisis .
-lrb- 05.05.2009 -rrb- japanese pm lauds swift german reaction to financial crisis japanese prime minister taro aso was in berlin on tuesday as part of a three-day trip to europe .
the global economic downturn was on aso 's mind as he met with german chancellor angela merkel .
-lrb- 05.05.2009 -rrb- spring employment boost fails to materialize a much-hoped-for springtime jobs boost has failed to materialize , official german figures show .
-lrb- 30.04.2009 -rrb- 9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
the secret behind germany 's unemployment rate remaining stagnant -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de labor market -pipe- 07.05.2009 the secret behind germany 's unemployment rate remaining stagnant großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the automobile industry faces eerily empty halls as working hours are slashed german businesses , hard-hit by the financial crisis , resort to a time-tested instrument : rather than fire employees , their working hours are reduced . germany 's economy is expected to shrink by 6 percent this year , according to both the government and leading economic institutes .
but the number of jobless has not skyrocketed , and that is due to the german practice of reduced working hours – not a new concept here , but routinely employed in crises like the 1970s oil embargo , and again after reunification in the early 1990s .
they are all deeply in the red : that is what germany 's leading businesses have in common these days when they look at their first quarter figures .
but rather than lay off valuable workers , they 've ordered reduced working hours .
more than a third of automaker daimler 's and roughly a quarter of bmw 's employees , for instance , are working reduced hours .
at chemical giant basf , more than 4,000 people work shorter hours , and another 3,000 are to join them in june .
production at printer heidelberger druck is down to 11 days a month . instrument to stabilize the job market about 1,4 million people worked shorter hours in april , says germany 's federal labour agency .
the labor market is stable as a result of these many shorter working hours , says agency chief frank-juerrgen weise .
employers revert to shorter working hours when the number of orders dwindles , but the firm wants to keep its skilled workers and specialists .
while the employers only pay wages for the reduced hours , they do continue to pay the full social security dues .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : hundreds-of-thousands manage to keep their jobs but work reduced hours benefits are available from germany 's labor agency for a maximum of 18 months .
workers without children , for instance , can expect 60 percent of their last net salary , families with children are granted seven percent more .
to top that , labour minister olaf scholz last week proposed taking over all social security payments from the companies after half a year , as well as extending the term of shorter working hours from 18 months to two years .
dieter hundt , president of the german employers ' federation bda , was initially opposed to extending to 24 months the option of reduced working hours .
but he welcomed the government 's plan .
" discarding all social security payments is extremely important for the companies , " he said after a meeting last week with scholz and michael sommer , head of the dgb labor federation .
here in germany , social security payments include old age insurance , jobless insurance and health and nursing care insurance – all in all , more than 20 percent of the gross pay package . supporting reduced working hours is expected to cost the federal labor agency about 500 million euros for 100,000 people per year .
critics fear abuse of labor office plans hilmar schneider , director of labor market policies at the institute for the future of labor , iza , is critical of the labor agency 's policy of taking over all social security payments after six months of reduced work . a firm could keep on an employee but reduce his hours to zero , he explains , making him de facto unemployed .
but that employee would still receive his full pay from the labor agency for 24 months . then , the employee could register as unemployed – and would again be eligible for 24 months of financial support .
firms could of course lay off workers , hilmar schneider says , but that is something the government is trying to prevent at all costs .
" with parliamentary elections in september , " the labour market expert says , " the media would be full of mass lay-offs in time for the election . "
danhong zhang / dagmar breitenbach / rob mudge send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de spring employment boost fails to materialize a much-hoped-for springtime jobs boost has failed to materialize , official german figures show .
-lrb- 30.04.2009 -rrb- economic institutes see hard times ahead leading german economic institutes say europe 's largest economy is caught up in the maelstrom of a global recession .
their forecast is even gloomier than the imf 's prediction for 2009 .
-lrb- 23.04.2009 -rrb- germany extends new car subsidy program german chancellor angela merkel 's grand coalition has agreed to boost subsidies for consumers who trade in their old cars for new ones from 1.5 billion euros to five billion euros -lrb- us $ 6.6 billion -rrb- .
-lrb- 08.04.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic listen here to more about " kurzarbeit " 9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live im focus - dokumentationen und reportagen we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live spectrum listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive. tourism germany 's north sea coast boasts some of the longest and most attractive beaches in europe .
watch the video dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
the secret behind germany 's unemployment rate remaining stagnant -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 07.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de labor market -pipe- 07.05.2009 the secret behind germany 's unemployment rate remaining stagnant großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the automobile industry faces eerily empty halls as working hours are slashed german businesses , hard-hit by the financial crisis , resort to a time-tested instrument : rather than fire employees , their working hours are reduced . germany 's economy is expected to shrink by 6 percent this year , according to both the government and leading economic institutes .
but the number of jobless has not skyrocketed , and that is due to the german practice of reduced working hours – not a new concept here , but routinely employed in crises like the 1970s oil embargo , and again after reunification in the early 1990s .
they are all deeply in the red : that is what germany 's leading businesses have in common these days when they look at their first quarter figures .
but rather than lay off valuable workers , they 've ordered reduced working hours .
more than a third of automaker daimler 's and roughly a quarter of bmw 's employees , for instance , are working reduced hours .
at chemical giant basf , more than 4,000 people work shorter hours , and another 3,000 are to join them in june .
production at printer heidelberger druck is down to 11 days a month . instrument to stabilize the job market about 1,4 million people worked shorter hours in april , says germany 's federal labour agency .
the labor market is stable as a result of these many shorter working hours , says agency chief frank-juerrgen weise .
employers revert to shorter working hours when the number of orders dwindles , but the firm wants to keep its skilled workers and specialists .
while the employers only pay wages for the reduced hours , they do continue to pay the full social security dues .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : hundreds-of-thousands manage to keep their jobs but work reduced hours benefits are available from germany 's labor agency for a maximum of 18 months .
workers without children , for instance , can expect 60 percent of their last net salary , families with children are granted seven percent more .
to top that , labour minister olaf scholz last week proposed taking over all social security payments from the companies after half a year , as well as extending the term of shorter working hours from 18 months to two years .
dieter hundt , president of the german employers ' federation bda , was initially opposed to extending to 24 months the option of reduced working hours .
but he welcomed the government 's plan .
" discarding all social security payments is extremely important for the companies , " he said after a meeting last week with scholz and michael sommer , head of the dgb labor federation .
here in germany , social security payments include old age insurance , jobless insurance and health and nursing care insurance – all in all , more than 20 percent of the gross pay package . supporting reduced working hours is expected to cost the federal labor agency about 500 million euros for 100,000 people per year .
critics fear abuse of labor office plans hilmar schneider , director of labor market policies at the institute for the future of labor , iza , is critical of the labor agency 's policy of taking over all social security payments after six months of reduced work . a firm could keep on an employee but reduce his hours to zero , he explains , making him de facto unemployed .
but that employee would still receive his full pay from the labor agency for 24 months . then , the employee could register as unemployed – and would again be eligible for 24 months of financial support .
firms could of course lay off workers , hilmar schneider says , but that is something the government is trying to prevent at all costs .
" with parliamentary elections in september , " the labour market expert says , " the media would be full of mass lay-offs in time for the election . "
danhong zhang / dagmar breitenbach / rob mudge send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de spring employment boost fails to materialize a much-hoped-for springtime jobs boost has failed to materialize , official german figures show .
-lrb- 30.04.2009 -rrb- economic institutes see hard times ahead leading german economic institutes say europe 's largest economy is caught up in the maelstrom of a global recession .
their forecast is even gloomier than the imf 's prediction for 2009 .
-lrb- 23.04.2009 -rrb- germany extends new car subsidy program german chancellor angela merkel 's grand coalition has agreed to boost subsidies for consumers who trade in their old cars for new ones from 1.5 billion euros to five billion euros -lrb- us $ 6.6 billion -rrb- .
-lrb- 08.04.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic listen here to more about " kurzarbeit " 9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live quadriga we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inside europe listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
the secret behind germany 's unemployment rate remaining stagnant -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 24.01.2011 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de labor market -pipe- 07.05.2009 the secret behind germany 's unemployment rate remaining stagnant großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the automobile industry faces eerily empty halls as working hours are slashed german businesses , hard-hit by the financial crisis , resort to a time-tested instrument : rather than fire employees , their working hours are reduced . germany 's economy is expected to shrink by 6 percent this year , according to both the government and leading economic institutes .
but the number of jobless has not skyrocketed , and that is due to the german practice of reduced working hours – not a new concept here , but routinely employed in crises like the 1970s oil embargo , and again after reunification in the early 1990s .
they are all deeply in the red : that is what germany 's leading businesses have in common these days when they look at their first quarter figures .
but rather than lay off valuable workers , they 've ordered reduced working hours .
more than a third of automaker daimler 's and roughly a quarter of bmw 's employees , for instance , are working reduced hours .
at chemical giant basf , more than 4,000 people work shorter hours , and another 3,000 are to join them in june .
production at printer heidelberger druck is down to 11 days a month . instrument to stabilize the job market about 1,4 million people worked shorter hours in april , says germany 's federal labour agency .
the labor market is stable as a result of these many shorter working hours , says agency chief frank-juerrgen weise .
employers revert to shorter working hours when the number of orders dwindles , but the firm wants to keep its skilled workers and specialists .
while the employers only pay wages for the reduced hours , they do continue to pay the full social security dues .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : hundreds-of-thousands manage to keep their jobs but work reduced hours benefits are available from germany 's labor agency for a maximum of 18 months .
workers without children , for instance , can expect 60 percent of their last net salary , families with children are granted seven percent more .
to top that , labour minister olaf scholz last week proposed taking over all social security payments from the companies after half a year , as well as extending the term of shorter working hours from 18 months to two years .
dieter hundt , president of the german employers ' federation bda , was initially opposed to extending to 24 months the option of reduced working hours .
but he welcomed the government 's plan .
" discarding all social security payments is extremely important for the companies , " he said after a meeting last week with scholz and michael sommer , head of the dgb labor federation .
here in germany , social security payments include old age insurance , jobless insurance and health and nursing care insurance – all in all , more than 20 percent of the gross pay package . supporting reduced working hours is expected to cost the federal labor agency about 500 million euros for 100,000 people per year .
critics fear abuse of labor office plans hilmar schneider , director of labor market policies at the institute for the future of labor , iza , is critical of the labor agency 's policy of taking over all social security payments after six months of reduced work . a firm could keep on an employee but reduce his hours to zero , he explains , making him de facto unemployed .
but that employee would still receive his full pay from the labor agency for 24 months . then , the employee could register as unemployed – and would again be eligible for 24 months of financial support .
firms could of course lay off workers , hilmar schneider says , but that is something the government is trying to prevent at all costs .
" with parliamentary elections in september , " the labour market expert says , " the media would be full of mass lay-offs in time for the election . "
danhong zhang / dagmar breitenbach / rob mudge send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de spring employment boost fails to materialize a much-hoped-for springtime jobs boost has failed to materialize , official german figures show .
-lrb- 30.04.2009 -rrb- economic institutes see hard times ahead leading german economic institutes say europe 's largest economy is caught up in the maelstrom of a global recession .
their forecast is even gloomier than the imf 's prediction for 2009 .
-lrb- 23.04.2009 -rrb- germany extends new car subsidy program german chancellor angela merkel 's grand coalition has agreed to boost subsidies for consumers who trade in their old cars for new ones from 1.5 billion euros to five billion euros -lrb- us $ 6.6 billion -rrb- .
-lrb- 08.04.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic listen here to more about " kurzarbeit " feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live kultur.21 we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live in-box feedback from around the world listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
the secret behind germany 's unemployment rate remaining stagnant -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 02.04.2011 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de labor market -pipe- 07.05.2009 the secret behind germany 's unemployment rate remaining stagnant großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the automobile industry faces eerily empty halls as working hours are slashed german businesses , hard-hit by the financial crisis , resort to a time-tested instrument : rather than fire employees , their working hours are reduced . germany 's economy is expected to shrink by 6 percent this year , according to both the government and leading economic institutes .
but the number of jobless has not skyrocketed , and that is due to the german practice of reduced working hours – not a new concept here , but routinely employed in crises like the 1970s oil embargo , and again after reunification in the early 1990s .
they are all deeply in the red : that is what germany 's leading businesses have in common these days when they look at their first quarter figures .
but rather than lay off valuable workers , they 've ordered reduced working hours .
more than a third of automaker daimler 's and roughly a quarter of bmw 's employees , for instance , are working reduced hours .
at chemical giant basf , more than 4,000 people work shorter hours , and another 3,000 are to join them in june .
production at printer heidelberger druck is down to 11 days a month . instrument to stabilize the job market about 1,4 million people worked shorter hours in april , says germany 's federal labour agency .
the labor market is stable as a result of these many shorter working hours , says agency chief frank-juerrgen weise .
employers revert to shorter working hours when the number of orders dwindles , but the firm wants to keep its skilled workers and specialists .
while the employers only pay wages for the reduced hours , they do continue to pay the full social security dues .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : hundreds-of-thousands manage to keep their jobs but work reduced hours benefits are available from germany 's labor agency for a maximum of 18 months .
workers without children , for instance , can expect 60 percent of their last net salary , families with children are granted seven percent more .
to top that , labour minister olaf scholz last week proposed taking over all social security payments from the companies after half a year , as well as extending the term of shorter working hours from 18 months to two years .
dieter hundt , president of the german employers ' federation bda , was initially opposed to extending to 24 months the option of reduced working hours .
but he welcomed the government 's plan .
" discarding all social security payments is extremely important for the companies , " he said after a meeting last week with scholz and michael sommer , head of the dgb labor federation .
here in germany , social security payments include old age insurance , jobless insurance and health and nursing care insurance – all in all , more than 20 percent of the gross pay package . supporting reduced working hours is expected to cost the federal labor agency about 500 million euros for 100,000 people per year .
critics fear abuse of labor office plans hilmar schneider , director of labor market policies at the institute for the future of labor , iza , is critical of the labor agency 's policy of taking over all social security payments after six months of reduced work . a firm could keep on an employee but reduce his hours to zero , he explains , making him de facto unemployed .
but that employee would still receive his full pay from the labor agency for 24 months . then , the employee could register as unemployed – and would again be eligible for 24 months of financial support .
firms could of course lay off workers , hilmar schneider says , but that is something the government is trying to prevent at all costs .
" with parliamentary elections in september , " the labour market expert says , " the media would be full of mass lay-offs in time for the election . "
danhong zhang / dagmar breitenbach / rob mudge send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de spring employment boost fails to materialize a much-hoped-for springtime jobs boost has failed to materialize , official german figures show .
-lrb- 30.04.2009 -rrb- economic institutes see hard times ahead leading german economic institutes say europe 's largest economy is caught up in the maelstrom of a global recession .
their forecast is even gloomier than the imf 's prediction for 2009 .
-lrb- 23.04.2009 -rrb- germany extends new car subsidy program german chancellor angela merkel 's grand coalition has agreed to boost subsidies for consumers who trade in their old cars for new ones from 1.5 billion euros to five billion euros -lrb- us $ 6.6 billion -rrb- .
-lrb- 08.04.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic listen here to more about " kurzarbeit " feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
the secret behind germany 's unemployment rate remaining stagnant -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 16.12.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de labor market -pipe- 07.05.2009 the secret behind germany 's unemployment rate remaining stagnant großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the automobile industry faces eerily empty halls as working hours are slashed german businesses , hard-hit by the financial crisis , resort to a time-tested instrument : rather than fire employees , their working hours are reduced . germany 's economy is expected to shrink by 6 percent this year , according to both the government and leading economic institutes .
but the number of jobless has not skyrocketed , and that is due to the german practice of reduced working hours – not a new concept here , but routinely employed in crises like the 1970s oil embargo , and again after reunification in the early 1990s .
they are all deeply in the red : that is what germany 's leading businesses have in common these days when they look at their first quarter figures .
but rather than lay off valuable workers , they 've ordered reduced working hours .
more than a third of automaker daimler 's and roughly a quarter of bmw 's employees , for instance , are working reduced hours .
at chemical giant basf , more than 4,000 people work shorter hours , and another 3,000 are to join them in june .
production at printer heidelberger druck is down to 11 days a month . instrument to stabilize the job market about 1,4 million people worked shorter hours in april , says germany 's federal labour agency .
the labor market is stable as a result of these many shorter working hours , says agency chief frank-juerrgen weise .
employers revert to shorter working hours when the number of orders dwindles , but the firm wants to keep its skilled workers and specialists .
while the employers only pay wages for the reduced hours , they do continue to pay the full social security dues .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : hundreds-of-thousands manage to keep their jobs but work reduced hours benefits are available from germany 's labor agency for a maximum of 18 months .
workers without children , for instance , can expect 60 percent of their last net salary , families with children are granted seven percent more .
to top that , labour minister olaf scholz last week proposed taking over all social security payments from the companies after half a year , as well as extending the term of shorter working hours from 18 months to two years .
dieter hundt , president of the german employers ' federation bda , was initially opposed to extending to 24 months the option of reduced working hours .
but he welcomed the government 's plan .
" discarding all social security payments is extremely important for the companies , " he said after a meeting last week with scholz and michael sommer , head of the dgb labor federation .
here in germany , social security payments include old age insurance , jobless insurance and health and nursing care insurance – all in all , more than 20 percent of the gross pay package . supporting reduced working hours is expected to cost the federal labor agency about 500 million euros for 100,000 people per year .
critics fear abuse of labor office plans hilmar schneider , director of labor market policies at the institute for the future of labor , iza , is critical of the labor agency 's policy of taking over all social security payments after six months of reduced work . a firm could keep on an employee but reduce his hours to zero , he explains , making him de facto unemployed .
but that employee would still receive his full pay from the labor agency for 24 months . then , the employee could register as unemployed – and would again be eligible for 24 months of financial support .
firms could of course lay off workers , hilmar schneider says , but that is something the government is trying to prevent at all costs .
" with parliamentary elections in september , " the labour market expert says , " the media would be full of mass lay-offs in time for the election . "
danhong zhang / dagmar breitenbach / rob mudge send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de spring employment boost fails to materialize a much-hoped-for springtime jobs boost has failed to materialize , official german figures show .
-lrb- 30.04.2009 -rrb- economic institutes see hard times ahead leading german economic institutes say europe 's largest economy is caught up in the maelstrom of a global recession .
their forecast is even gloomier than the imf 's prediction for 2009 .
-lrb- 23.04.2009 -rrb- germany extends new car subsidy program german chancellor angela merkel 's grand coalition has agreed to boost subsidies for consumers who trade in their old cars for new ones from 1.5 billion euros to five billion euros -lrb- us $ 6.6 billion -rrb- .
-lrb- 08.04.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic listen here to more about " kurzarbeit " feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
travel passau is called the three river city , but it is just as famous for its baroque splendor .
passau - baroque facades and vibrant arts watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
the secret behind germany 's unemployment rate remaining stagnant -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 22.09.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de labor market -pipe- 07.05.2009 the secret behind germany 's unemployment rate remaining stagnant großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the automobile industry faces eerily empty halls as working hours are slashed german businesses , hard-hit by the financial crisis , resort to a time-tested instrument : rather than fire employees , their working hours are reduced . germany 's economy is expected to shrink by 6 percent this year , according to both the government and leading economic institutes .
but the number of jobless has not skyrocketed , and that is due to the german practice of reduced working hours – not a new concept here , but routinely employed in crises like the 1970s oil embargo , and again after reunification in the early 1990s .
they are all deeply in the red : that is what germany 's leading businesses have in common these days when they look at their first quarter figures .
but rather than lay off valuable workers , they 've ordered reduced working hours .
more than a third of automaker daimler 's and roughly a quarter of bmw 's employees , for instance , are working reduced hours .
at chemical giant basf , more than 4,000 people work shorter hours , and another 3,000 are to join them in june .
production at printer heidelberger druck is down to 11 days a month . instrument to stabilize the job market about 1,4 million people worked shorter hours in april , says germany 's federal labour agency .
the labor market is stable as a result of these many shorter working hours , says agency chief frank-juerrgen weise .
employers revert to shorter working hours when the number of orders dwindles , but the firm wants to keep its skilled workers and specialists .
while the employers only pay wages for the reduced hours , they do continue to pay the full social security dues .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : hundreds-of-thousands manage to keep their jobs but work reduced hours benefits are available from germany 's labor agency for a maximum of 18 months .
workers without children , for instance , can expect 60 percent of their last net salary , families with children are granted seven percent more .
to top that , labour minister olaf scholz last week proposed taking over all social security payments from the companies after half a year , as well as extending the term of shorter working hours from 18 months to two years .
dieter hundt , president of the german employers ' federation bda , was initially opposed to extending to 24 months the option of reduced working hours .
but he welcomed the government 's plan .
" discarding all social security payments is extremely important for the companies , " he said after a meeting last week with scholz and michael sommer , head of the dgb labor federation .
here in germany , social security payments include old age insurance , jobless insurance and health and nursing care insurance – all in all , more than 20 percent of the gross pay package . supporting reduced working hours is expected to cost the federal labor agency about 500 million euros for 100,000 people per year .
critics fear abuse of labor office plans hilmar schneider , director of labor market policies at the institute for the future of labor , iza , is critical of the labor agency 's policy of taking over all social security payments after six months of reduced work . a firm could keep on an employee but reduce his hours to zero , he explains , making him de facto unemployed .
but that employee would still receive his full pay from the labor agency for 24 months . then , the employee could register as unemployed – and would again be eligible for 24 months of financial support .
firms could of course lay off workers , hilmar schneider says , but that is something the government is trying to prevent at all costs .
" with parliamentary elections in september , " the labour market expert says , " the media would be full of mass lay-offs in time for the election . "
danhong zhang / dagmar breitenbach / rob mudge send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de spring employment boost fails to materialize a much-hoped-for springtime jobs boost has failed to materialize , official german figures show .
-lrb- 30.04.2009 -rrb- economic institutes see hard times ahead leading german economic institutes say europe 's largest economy is caught up in the maelstrom of a global recession .
their forecast is even gloomier than the imf 's prediction for 2009 .
-lrb- 23.04.2009 -rrb- germany extends new car subsidy program german chancellor angela merkel 's grand coalition has agreed to boost subsidies for consumers who trade in their old cars for new ones from 1.5 billion euros to five billion euros -lrb- us $ 6.6 billion -rrb- .
-lrb- 08.04.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic listen here to more about " kurzarbeit " feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live im focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
the secret behind germany 's unemployment rate remaining stagnant -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 01.11.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de labor market -pipe- 07.05.2009 the secret behind germany 's unemployment rate remaining stagnant großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the automobile industry faces eerily empty halls as working hours are slashed german businesses , hard-hit by the financial crisis , resort to a time-tested instrument : rather than fire employees , their working hours are reduced . germany 's economy is expected to shrink by 6 percent this year , according to both the government and leading economic institutes .
but the number of jobless has not skyrocketed , and that is due to the german practice of reduced working hours – not a new concept here , but routinely employed in crises like the 1970s oil embargo , and again after reunification in the early 1990s .
they are all deeply in the red : that is what germany 's leading businesses have in common these days when they look at their first quarter figures .
but rather than lay off valuable workers , they 've ordered reduced working hours .
more than a third of automaker daimler 's and roughly a quarter of bmw 's employees , for instance , are working reduced hours .
at chemical giant basf , more than 4,000 people work shorter hours , and another 3,000 are to join them in june .
production at printer heidelberger druck is down to 11 days a month . instrument to stabilize the job market about 1,4 million people worked shorter hours in april , says germany 's federal labour agency .
the labor market is stable as a result of these many shorter working hours , says agency chief frank-juerrgen weise .
employers revert to shorter working hours when the number of orders dwindles , but the firm wants to keep its skilled workers and specialists .
while the employers only pay wages for the reduced hours , they do continue to pay the full social security dues .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : hundreds-of-thousands manage to keep their jobs but work reduced hours benefits are available from germany 's labor agency for a maximum of 18 months .
workers without children , for instance , can expect 60 percent of their last net salary , families with children are granted seven percent more .
to top that , labour minister olaf scholz last week proposed taking over all social security payments from the companies after half a year , as well as extending the term of shorter working hours from 18 months to two years .
dieter hundt , president of the german employers ' federation bda , was initially opposed to extending to 24 months the option of reduced working hours .
but he welcomed the government 's plan .
" discarding all social security payments is extremely important for the companies , " he said after a meeting last week with scholz and michael sommer , head of the dgb labor federation .
here in germany , social security payments include old age insurance , jobless insurance and health and nursing care insurance – all in all , more than 20 percent of the gross pay package . supporting reduced working hours is expected to cost the federal labor agency about 500 million euros for 100,000 people per year .
critics fear abuse of labor office plans hilmar schneider , director of labor market policies at the institute for the future of labor , iza , is critical of the labor agency 's policy of taking over all social security payments after six months of reduced work . a firm could keep on an employee but reduce his hours to zero , he explains , making him de facto unemployed .
but that employee would still receive his full pay from the labor agency for 24 months . then , the employee could register as unemployed – and would again be eligible for 24 months of financial support .
firms could of course lay off workers , hilmar schneider says , but that is something the government is trying to prevent at all costs .
" with parliamentary elections in september , " the labour market expert says , " the media would be full of mass lay-offs in time for the election . "
danhong zhang / dagmar breitenbach / rob mudge send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de spring employment boost fails to materialize a much-hoped-for springtime jobs boost has failed to materialize , official german figures show .
-lrb- 30.04.2009 -rrb- economic institutes see hard times ahead leading german economic institutes say europe 's largest economy is caught up in the maelstrom of a global recession .
their forecast is even gloomier than the imf 's prediction for 2009 .
-lrb- 23.04.2009 -rrb- germany extends new car subsidy program german chancellor angela merkel 's grand coalition has agreed to boost subsidies for consumers who trade in their old cars for new ones from 1.5 billion euros to five billion euros -lrb- us $ 6.6 billion -rrb- .
-lrb- 08.04.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic listen here to more about " kurzarbeit " feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live concert hour beethovenfest 2010 listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german industrial orders make surprise jump -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.10.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de business -pipe- 07.05.2009 german industrial orders make surprise jump großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : daimler truck factory in woerth - demand for german manufactured goods is up german industrial orders in march showed their first rise for six months , on the back of an increase in orders from abroad . preliminary government figures show that german industrial orders grew an unexpected 3.3 percent in march , driven by an increase in demand from abroad .
the rise - economists had expected a moderate fall for the world 's top exporter - is the first piece of hard data to back up the government 's prediction that the economy is set to grow slightly in 2010 .
the german economy is expected to experience negative growth of around six percent this year .
germany 's economics ministry said the seasonally adjusted rise did not even begin to make up for recent months , with orders for goods falling by 14.5 percent in the first quarter .
the ministry said , though , that the latest numbers showed the trend had changed .
the march increase compared with a 3.1 percent drop in february ; and was largely due to a 5.6 percent increase in orders from abroad .
domestic orders also grew by just over one percent .
the month-on-month climb in march was stronger than expected and indicated that europe 's biggest economy may already be on the rebound from the worst effects of the global recession .
however , the european commission slashed its economic projections on monday , saying europe 's economy would shrink by four per cent this year .
that 's double the figure that it predicted at the start of the year . ch / pfd , rtr / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german business confidence falls ; economists say turnaround near business confidence in europe 's largest economy has reached an all time low , but according to some economists , things could level out and even rebound in the coming months .
-lrb- 26.03.2009 -rrb- europe to lose 3.5 million jobs in 2009 , study says a new study by the eu commission says that jobless rolls in the european union will swell by a further 3.5 million this year as the global economic slowdown batters labor markets across europe .
-lrb- 18.02.2009 -rrb- airbus warns of " horrible " year ahead european aircraft manufacturing giant airbus expects a dismal year with orders plummeting as the global economic crisis hits the aviation industry .
-lrb- 15.01.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live concert hour listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german industrial orders make surprise jump -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 01.04.2011 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de business -pipe- 07.05.2009 german industrial orders make surprise jump großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : daimler truck factory in woerth - demand for german manufactured goods is up german industrial orders in march showed their first rise for six months , on the back of an increase in orders from abroad . preliminary government figures show that german industrial orders grew an unexpected 3.3 percent in march , driven by an increase in demand from abroad .
the rise - economists had expected a moderate fall for the world 's top exporter - is the first piece of hard data to back up the government 's prediction that the economy is set to grow slightly in 2010 .
the german economy is expected to experience negative growth of around six percent this year .
germany 's economics ministry said the seasonally adjusted rise did not even begin to make up for recent months , with orders for goods falling by 14.5 percent in the first quarter .
the ministry said , though , that the latest numbers showed the trend had changed .
the march increase compared with a 3.1 percent drop in february ; and was largely due to a 5.6 percent increase in orders from abroad .
domestic orders also grew by just over one percent .
the month-on-month climb in march was stronger than expected and indicated that europe 's biggest economy may already be on the rebound from the worst effects of the global recession .
however , the european commission slashed its economic projections on monday , saying europe 's economy would shrink by four per cent this year .
that 's double the figure that it predicted at the start of the year . ch / pfd , rtr / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german business confidence falls ; economists say turnaround near business confidence in europe 's largest economy has reached an all time low , but according to some economists , things could level out and even rebound in the coming months .
-lrb- 26.03.2009 -rrb- europe to lose 3.5 million jobs in 2009 , study says a new study by the eu commission says that jobless rolls in the european union will swell by a further 3.5 million this year as the global economic slowdown batters labor markets across europe .
-lrb- 18.02.2009 -rrb- airbus warns of " horrible " year ahead european aircraft manufacturing giant airbus expects a dismal year with orders plummeting as the global economic crisis hits the aviation industry .
-lrb- 15.01.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live popxport we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german industrial orders make surprise jump -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 23.01.2011 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de business -pipe- 07.05.2009 german industrial orders make surprise jump großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : daimler truck factory in woerth - demand for german manufactured goods is up german industrial orders in march showed their first rise for six months , on the back of an increase in orders from abroad . preliminary government figures show that german industrial orders grew an unexpected 3.3 percent in march , driven by an increase in demand from abroad .
the rise - economists had expected a moderate fall for the world 's top exporter - is the first piece of hard data to back up the government 's prediction that the economy is set to grow slightly in 2010 .
the german economy is expected to experience negative growth of around six percent this year .
germany 's economics ministry said the seasonally adjusted rise did not even begin to make up for recent months , with orders for goods falling by 14.5 percent in the first quarter .
the ministry said , though , that the latest numbers showed the trend had changed .
the march increase compared with a 3.1 percent drop in february ; and was largely due to a 5.6 percent increase in orders from abroad .
domestic orders also grew by just over one percent .
the month-on-month climb in march was stronger than expected and indicated that europe 's biggest economy may already be on the rebound from the worst effects of the global recession .
however , the european commission slashed its economic projections on monday , saying europe 's economy would shrink by four per cent this year .
that 's double the figure that it predicted at the start of the year . ch / pfd , rtr / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german business confidence falls ; economists say turnaround near business confidence in europe 's largest economy has reached an all time low , but according to some economists , things could level out and even rebound in the coming months .
-lrb- 26.03.2009 -rrb- europe to lose 3.5 million jobs in 2009 , study says a new study by the eu commission says that jobless rolls in the european union will swell by a further 3.5 million this year as the global economic slowdown batters labor markets across europe .
-lrb- 18.02.2009 -rrb- airbus warns of " horrible " year ahead european aircraft manufacturing giant airbus expects a dismal year with orders plummeting as the global economic crisis hits the aviation industry .
-lrb- 15.01.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inside europe listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german industrial orders make surprise jump -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 15.09.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de business -pipe- 07.05.2009 german industrial orders make surprise jump großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : daimler truck factory in woerth - demand for german manufactured goods is up german industrial orders in march showed their first rise for six months , on the back of an increase in orders from abroad . preliminary government figures show that german industrial orders grew an unexpected 3.3 percent in march , driven by an increase in demand from abroad .
the rise - economists had expected a moderate fall for the world 's top exporter - is the first piece of hard data to back up the government 's prediction that the economy is set to grow slightly in 2010 .
the german economy is expected to experience negative growth of around six percent this year .
germany 's economics ministry said the seasonally adjusted rise did not even begin to make up for recent months , with orders for goods falling by 14.5 percent in the first quarter .
the ministry said , though , that the latest numbers showed the trend had changed .
the march increase compared with a 3.1 percent drop in february ; and was largely due to a 5.6 percent increase in orders from abroad .
domestic orders also grew by just over one percent .
the month-on-month climb in march was stronger than expected and indicated that europe 's biggest economy may already be on the rebound from the worst effects of the global recession .
however , the european commission slashed its economic projections on monday , saying europe 's economy would shrink by four per cent this year .
that 's double the figure that it predicted at the start of the year . ch / pfd , rtr / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german business confidence falls ; economists say turnaround near business confidence in europe 's largest economy has reached an all time low , but according to some economists , things could level out and even rebound in the coming months .
-lrb- 26.03.2009 -rrb- europe to lose 3.5 million jobs in 2009 , study says a new study by the eu commission says that jobless rolls in the european union will swell by a further 3.5 million this year as the global economic slowdown batters labor markets across europe .
-lrb- 18.02.2009 -rrb- airbus warns of " horrible " year ahead european aircraft manufacturing giant airbus expects a dismal year with orders plummeting as the global economic crisis hits the aviation industry .
-lrb- 15.01.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german industrial orders make surprise jump -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 30.11.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de business -pipe- 07.05.2009 german industrial orders make surprise jump großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : daimler truck factory in woerth - demand for german manufactured goods is up german industrial orders in march showed their first rise for six months , on the back of an increase in orders from abroad . preliminary government figures show that german industrial orders grew an unexpected 3.3 percent in march , driven by an increase in demand from abroad .
the rise - economists had expected a moderate fall for the world 's top exporter - is the first piece of hard data to back up the government 's prediction that the economy is set to grow slightly in 2010 .
the german economy is expected to experience negative growth of around six percent this year .
germany 's economics ministry said the seasonally adjusted rise did not even begin to make up for recent months , with orders for goods falling by 14.5 percent in the first quarter .
the ministry said , though , that the latest numbers showed the trend had changed .
the march increase compared with a 3.1 percent drop in february ; and was largely due to a 5.6 percent increase in orders from abroad .
domestic orders also grew by just over one percent .
the month-on-month climb in march was stronger than expected and indicated that europe 's biggest economy may already be on the rebound from the worst effects of the global recession .
however , the european commission slashed its economic projections on monday , saying europe 's economy would shrink by four per cent this year .
that 's double the figure that it predicted at the start of the year . ch / pfd , rtr / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german business confidence falls ; economists say turnaround near business confidence in europe 's largest economy has reached an all time low , but according to some economists , things could level out and even rebound in the coming months .
-lrb- 26.03.2009 -rrb- europe to lose 3.5 million jobs in 2009 , study says a new study by the eu commission says that jobless rolls in the european union will swell by a further 3.5 million this year as the global economic slowdown batters labor markets across europe .
-lrb- 18.02.2009 -rrb- airbus warns of " horrible " year ahead european aircraft manufacturing giant airbus expects a dismal year with orders plummeting as the global economic crisis hits the aviation industry .
-lrb- 15.01.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live im focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inspired minds one to one with composer brett dean listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
travel passau is called the three river city , but it is just as famous for its baroque splendor .
passau - baroque facades and vibrant arts watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german industrial orders make surprise jump -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 06.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de business -pipe- 07.05.2009 german industrial orders make surprise jump großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : daimler truck factory in woerth - demand for german manufactured goods is up german industrial orders in march showed their first rise for six months , on the back of an increase in orders from abroad . preliminary government figures show that german industrial orders grew an unexpected 3.3 percent in march , driven by an increase in demand from abroad .
the rise - economists had expected a moderate fall for the world 's top exporter - is the first piece of hard data to back up the government 's prediction that the economy is set to grow slightly in 2010 .
the german economy is expected to experience negative growth of around six percent this year .
germany 's economics ministry said the seasonally adjusted rise did not even begin to make up for recent months , with orders for goods falling by 14.5 percent in the first quarter .
the ministry said , though , that the latest numbers showed the trend had changed .
the march increase compared with a 3.1 percent drop in february ; and was largely due to a 5.6 percent increase in orders from abroad .
domestic orders also grew by just over one percent .
the month-on-month climb in march was stronger than expected and indicated that europe 's biggest economy may already be on the rebound from the worst effects of the global recession .
however , the european commission slashed its economic projections on monday , saying europe 's economy would shrink by four per cent this year .
that 's double the figure that it predicted at the start of the year . ch / pfd , rtr / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german business confidence falls ; economists say turnaround near business confidence in europe 's largest economy has reached an all time low , but according to some economists , things could level out and even rebound in the coming months .
-lrb- 26.03.2009 -rrb- europe to lose 3.5 million jobs in 2009 , study says a new study by the eu commission says that jobless rolls in the european union will swell by a further 3.5 million this year as the global economic slowdown batters labor markets across europe .
-lrb- 18.02.2009 -rrb- airbus warns of " horrible " year ahead european aircraft manufacturing giant airbus expects a dismal year with orders plummeting as the global economic crisis hits the aviation industry .
-lrb- 15.01.2009 -rrb- 9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german industrial orders make surprise jump -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 26.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de business -pipe- 07.05.2009 german industrial orders make surprise jump großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : daimler truck factory in woerth - demand for german manufactured goods is up german industrial orders in march showed their first rise for six months , on the back of an increase in orders from abroad . preliminary government figures show that german industrial orders grew an unexpected 3.3 percent in march , driven by an increase in demand from abroad .
the rise - economists had expected a moderate fall for the world 's top exporter - is the first piece of hard data to back up the government 's prediction that the economy is set to grow slightly in 2010 .
the german economy is expected to experience negative growth of around six percent this year .
germany 's economics ministry said the seasonally adjusted rise did not even begin to make up for recent months , with orders for goods falling by 14.5 percent in the first quarter .
the ministry said , though , that the latest numbers showed the trend had changed .
the march increase compared with a 3.1 percent drop in february ; and was largely due to a 5.6 percent increase in orders from abroad .
domestic orders also grew by just over one percent .
the month-on-month climb in march was stronger than expected and indicated that europe 's biggest economy may already be on the rebound from the worst effects of the global recession .
however , the european commission slashed its economic projections on monday , saying europe 's economy would shrink by four per cent this year .
that 's double the figure that it predicted at the start of the year . ch / pfd , rtr / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german business confidence falls ; economists say turnaround near business confidence in europe 's largest economy has reached an all time low , but according to some economists , things could level out and even rebound in the coming months .
-lrb- 26.03.2009 -rrb- europe to lose 3.5 million jobs in 2009 , study says a new study by the eu commission says that jobless rolls in the european union will swell by a further 3.5 million this year as the global economic slowdown batters labor markets across europe .
-lrb- 18.02.2009 -rrb- airbus warns of " horrible " year ahead european aircraft manufacturing giant airbus expects a dismal year with orders plummeting as the global economic crisis hits the aviation industry .
-lrb- 15.01.2009 -rrb- 9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit tagesthema we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive. tourism germany 's north sea coast boasts some of the longest and most attractive beaches in europe .
watch the video dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
steinmeier urges israeli counterpart to accept two-state plan -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.09.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de israel -pipe- 07.05.2009 steinmeier urges israeli counterpart to accept two-state plan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lieberman has been making his first official visit to berlin while in berlin , israel 's foreign minister has left a cloud over the mideast peace process , calling it a waste of money . israeli foreign minister avigdor lieberman has left german parliamentarians pessimistic about the future of the middle east peace process .
in berlin , the last stop of his four-day european tour , the right-wing minister refused to commit to a two-state solution for israel and the palestinian territories .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lieberman -lrb- right -rrb- with ruprecht polenz , chairman of the foreign affairs committee during talks with members of the german parliamentary foreign affairs committee lieberman said the peace process had been little more than a waste of money .
he also brought up iran , saying the country was a major threat .
later in the day , lieberman paid his respects at berlin 's holocaust memorial , laying a wreath at the 19,000-square-meter monument in the center of berlin .
lieberman later held talks with german interior minister wolfgang schaeuble , followed by dinner with his german counterpart frank-walter steinmeier .
germany 's top diplomat urged the controversial israeli foreign minister to adopt a two-state plan as the basis for peace in the middle east and the " sole path to peace and security . "
steinmeier emphasized that the german government expected the new israeli administration under prime minister benjamin netanyahu would abide with previous peace commitments .
the german minister said it was important to stregthen moderate forces in the region and actively involve them in the peace process .
with regard to the situation in the gaza strip , steinmeier said it was imperative that palestinians had access to aid supplies .
the israeli foreign minister , who heads a nationalist party in prime minister benjamin netanyahu 's coalition , caused a stir on his first day in office , when he announced that israel was no longer bound by the so-called annapolis peace process , which formed the basis of the israeli-palestinian peace talks in 2008 .
lieberman 's european visit - which has included meetings in rome , paris and european union talks in prague - was mostly conducted out of the media eye .
in berlin , no joint press conference or photo call was scheduled for his meeting with steinmeier .
this echoed lieberman 's reception in france , where foreign minister bernard kouchner chose not to hold a joint press conference as had been customary when lieberman 's predecessor tzipi livni came to paris . ch / pfd / nrt , rtr / dpa / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de merkel says " no alternative " to two-state solution in middle east german chancellor angela merkel has said there is no alternative to a two-state solution to the mideast crisis following talks in berlin on wednesday with jordan 's king abdullah ii .
-lrb- 06.05.2009 -rrb- netanyahu demands that palestinians recognize israel as jewish state israeli prime minister benjamin netanyahu has demanded palestinians recognize israel as a jewish state .
the call was made during his meeting with the visiting us special envoy to the middle east , george mitchell .
-lrb- 16.04.2009 -rrb- opinion : labour decision to join likud harms hopes for peace israeli labour party head ehud barack 's decision to take part in a government led by hardliner benjamin netanyahu is a disservice to the labour party and , more importantly , to hopes for peace , writes dw 's peter philipp .
-lrb- 25.03.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live sports report listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
steinmeier urges israeli counterpart to accept two-state plan -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 03.04.2011 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de israel -pipe- 07.05.2009 steinmeier urges israeli counterpart to accept two-state plan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lieberman has been making his first official visit to berlin while in berlin , israel 's foreign minister has left a cloud over the mideast peace process , calling it a waste of money . israeli foreign minister avigdor lieberman has left german parliamentarians pessimistic about the future of the middle east peace process .
in berlin , the last stop of his four-day european tour , the right-wing minister refused to commit to a two-state solution for israel and the palestinian territories .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lieberman -lrb- right -rrb- with ruprecht polenz , chairman of the foreign affairs committee during talks with members of the german parliamentary foreign affairs committee lieberman said the peace process had been little more than a waste of money .
he also brought up iran , saying the country was a major threat .
later in the day , lieberman paid his respects at berlin 's holocaust memorial , laying a wreath at the 19,000-square-meter monument in the center of berlin .
lieberman later held talks with german interior minister wolfgang schaeuble , followed by dinner with his german counterpart frank-walter steinmeier .
germany 's top diplomat urged the controversial israeli foreign minister to adopt a two-state plan as the basis for peace in the middle east and the " sole path to peace and security . "
steinmeier emphasized that the german government expected the new israeli administration under prime minister benjamin netanyahu would abide with previous peace commitments .
the german minister said it was important to stregthen moderate forces in the region and actively involve them in the peace process .
with regard to the situation in the gaza strip , steinmeier said it was imperative that palestinians had access to aid supplies .
the israeli foreign minister , who heads a nationalist party in prime minister benjamin netanyahu 's coalition , caused a stir on his first day in office , when he announced that israel was no longer bound by the so-called annapolis peace process , which formed the basis of the israeli-palestinian peace talks in 2008 .
lieberman 's european visit - which has included meetings in rome , paris and european union talks in prague - was mostly conducted out of the media eye .
in berlin , no joint press conference or photo call was scheduled for his meeting with steinmeier .
this echoed lieberman 's reception in france , where foreign minister bernard kouchner chose not to hold a joint press conference as had been customary when lieberman 's predecessor tzipi livni came to paris . ch / pfd / nrt , rtr / dpa / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de merkel says " no alternative " to two-state solution in middle east german chancellor angela merkel has said there is no alternative to a two-state solution to the mideast crisis following talks in berlin on wednesday with jordan 's king abdullah ii .
-lrb- 06.05.2009 -rrb- netanyahu demands that palestinians recognize israel as jewish state israeli prime minister benjamin netanyahu has demanded palestinians recognize israel as a jewish state .
the call was made during his meeting with the visiting us special envoy to the middle east , george mitchell .
-lrb- 16.04.2009 -rrb- opinion : labour decision to join likud harms hopes for peace israeli labour party head ehud barack 's decision to take part in a government led by hardliner benjamin netanyahu is a disservice to the labour party and , more importantly , to hopes for peace , writes dw 's peter philipp .
-lrb- 25.03.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live living in germany listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
steinmeier urges israeli counterpart to accept two-state plan -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 19.10.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de israel -pipe- 07.05.2009 steinmeier urges israeli counterpart to accept two-state plan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lieberman has been making his first official visit to berlin while in berlin , israel 's foreign minister has left a cloud over the mideast peace process , calling it a waste of money . israeli foreign minister avigdor lieberman has left german parliamentarians pessimistic about the future of the middle east peace process .
in berlin , the last stop of his four-day european tour , the right-wing minister refused to commit to a two-state solution for israel and the palestinian territories .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lieberman -lrb- right -rrb- with ruprecht polenz , chairman of the foreign affairs committee during talks with members of the german parliamentary foreign affairs committee lieberman said the peace process had been little more than a waste of money .
he also brought up iran , saying the country was a major threat .
later in the day , lieberman paid his respects at berlin 's holocaust memorial , laying a wreath at the 19,000-square-meter monument in the center of berlin .
lieberman later held talks with german interior minister wolfgang schaeuble , followed by dinner with his german counterpart frank-walter steinmeier .
germany 's top diplomat urged the controversial israeli foreign minister to adopt a two-state plan as the basis for peace in the middle east and the " sole path to peace and security . "
steinmeier emphasized that the german government expected the new israeli administration under prime minister benjamin netanyahu would abide with previous peace commitments .
the german minister said it was important to stregthen moderate forces in the region and actively involve them in the peace process .
with regard to the situation in the gaza strip , steinmeier said it was imperative that palestinians had access to aid supplies .
the israeli foreign minister , who heads a nationalist party in prime minister benjamin netanyahu 's coalition , caused a stir on his first day in office , when he announced that israel was no longer bound by the so-called annapolis peace process , which formed the basis of the israeli-palestinian peace talks in 2008 .
lieberman 's european visit - which has included meetings in rome , paris and european union talks in prague - was mostly conducted out of the media eye .
in berlin , no joint press conference or photo call was scheduled for his meeting with steinmeier .
this echoed lieberman 's reception in france , where foreign minister bernard kouchner chose not to hold a joint press conference as had been customary when lieberman 's predecessor tzipi livni came to paris . ch / pfd / nrt , rtr / dpa / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de merkel says " no alternative " to two-state solution in middle east german chancellor angela merkel has said there is no alternative to a two-state solution to the mideast crisis following talks in berlin on wednesday with jordan 's king abdullah ii .
-lrb- 06.05.2009 -rrb- netanyahu demands that palestinians recognize israel as jewish state israeli prime minister benjamin netanyahu has demanded palestinians recognize israel as a jewish state .
the call was made during his meeting with the visiting us special envoy to the middle east , george mitchell .
-lrb- 16.04.2009 -rrb- opinion : labour decision to join likud harms hopes for peace israeli labour party head ehud barack 's decision to take part in a government led by hardliner benjamin netanyahu is a disservice to the labour party and , more importantly , to hopes for peace , writes dw 's peter philipp .
-lrb- 25.03.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live global 3000 we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live living in germany listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
steinmeier urges israeli counterpart to accept two-state plan -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 24.01.2011 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de israel -pipe- 07.05.2009 steinmeier urges israeli counterpart to accept two-state plan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lieberman has been making his first official visit to berlin while in berlin , israel 's foreign minister has left a cloud over the mideast peace process , calling it a waste of money . israeli foreign minister avigdor lieberman has left german parliamentarians pessimistic about the future of the middle east peace process .
in berlin , the last stop of his four-day european tour , the right-wing minister refused to commit to a two-state solution for israel and the palestinian territories .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lieberman -lrb- right -rrb- with ruprecht polenz , chairman of the foreign affairs committee during talks with members of the german parliamentary foreign affairs committee lieberman said the peace process had been little more than a waste of money .
he also brought up iran , saying the country was a major threat .
later in the day , lieberman paid his respects at berlin 's holocaust memorial , laying a wreath at the 19,000-square-meter monument in the center of berlin .
lieberman later held talks with german interior minister wolfgang schaeuble , followed by dinner with his german counterpart frank-walter steinmeier .
germany 's top diplomat urged the controversial israeli foreign minister to adopt a two-state plan as the basis for peace in the middle east and the " sole path to peace and security . "
steinmeier emphasized that the german government expected the new israeli administration under prime minister benjamin netanyahu would abide with previous peace commitments .
the german minister said it was important to stregthen moderate forces in the region and actively involve them in the peace process .
with regard to the situation in the gaza strip , steinmeier said it was imperative that palestinians had access to aid supplies .
the israeli foreign minister , who heads a nationalist party in prime minister benjamin netanyahu 's coalition , caused a stir on his first day in office , when he announced that israel was no longer bound by the so-called annapolis peace process , which formed the basis of the israeli-palestinian peace talks in 2008 .
lieberman 's european visit - which has included meetings in rome , paris and european union talks in prague - was mostly conducted out of the media eye .
in berlin , no joint press conference or photo call was scheduled for his meeting with steinmeier .
this echoed lieberman 's reception in france , where foreign minister bernard kouchner chose not to hold a joint press conference as had been customary when lieberman 's predecessor tzipi livni came to paris . ch / pfd / nrt , rtr / dpa / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de merkel says " no alternative " to two-state solution in middle east german chancellor angela merkel has said there is no alternative to a two-state solution to the mideast crisis following talks in berlin on wednesday with jordan 's king abdullah ii .
-lrb- 06.05.2009 -rrb- netanyahu demands that palestinians recognize israel as jewish state israeli prime minister benjamin netanyahu has demanded palestinians recognize israel as a jewish state .
the call was made during his meeting with the visiting us special envoy to the middle east , george mitchell .
-lrb- 16.04.2009 -rrb- opinion : labour decision to join likud harms hopes for peace israeli labour party head ehud barack 's decision to take part in a government led by hardliner benjamin netanyahu is a disservice to the labour party and , more importantly , to hopes for peace , writes dw 's peter philipp .
-lrb- 25.03.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live concert hour listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
steinmeier urges israeli counterpart to accept two-state plan -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 02.12.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de israel -pipe- 07.05.2009 steinmeier urges israeli counterpart to accept two-state plan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lieberman has been making his first official visit to berlin while in berlin , israel 's foreign minister has left a cloud over the mideast peace process , calling it a waste of money . israeli foreign minister avigdor lieberman has left german parliamentarians pessimistic about the future of the middle east peace process .
in berlin , the last stop of his four-day european tour , the right-wing minister refused to commit to a two-state solution for israel and the palestinian territories .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lieberman -lrb- right -rrb- with ruprecht polenz , chairman of the foreign affairs committee during talks with members of the german parliamentary foreign affairs committee lieberman said the peace process had been little more than a waste of money .
he also brought up iran , saying the country was a major threat .
later in the day , lieberman paid his respects at berlin 's holocaust memorial , laying a wreath at the 19,000-square-meter monument in the center of berlin .
lieberman later held talks with german interior minister wolfgang schaeuble , followed by dinner with his german counterpart frank-walter steinmeier .
germany 's top diplomat urged the controversial israeli foreign minister to adopt a two-state plan as the basis for peace in the middle east and the " sole path to peace and security . "
steinmeier emphasized that the german government expected the new israeli administration under prime minister benjamin netanyahu would abide with previous peace commitments .
the german minister said it was important to stregthen moderate forces in the region and actively involve them in the peace process .
with regard to the situation in the gaza strip , steinmeier said it was imperative that palestinians had access to aid supplies .
the israeli foreign minister , who heads a nationalist party in prime minister benjamin netanyahu 's coalition , caused a stir on his first day in office , when he announced that israel was no longer bound by the so-called annapolis peace process , which formed the basis of the israeli-palestinian peace talks in 2008 .
lieberman 's european visit - which has included meetings in rome , paris and european union talks in prague - was mostly conducted out of the media eye .
in berlin , no joint press conference or photo call was scheduled for his meeting with steinmeier .
this echoed lieberman 's reception in france , where foreign minister bernard kouchner chose not to hold a joint press conference as had been customary when lieberman 's predecessor tzipi livni came to paris . ch / pfd / nrt , rtr / dpa / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de merkel says " no alternative " to two-state solution in middle east german chancellor angela merkel has said there is no alternative to a two-state solution to the mideast crisis following talks in berlin on wednesday with jordan 's king abdullah ii .
-lrb- 06.05.2009 -rrb- netanyahu demands that palestinians recognize israel as jewish state israeli prime minister benjamin netanyahu has demanded palestinians recognize israel as a jewish state .
the call was made during his meeting with the visiting us special envoy to the middle east , george mitchell .
-lrb- 16.04.2009 -rrb- opinion : labour decision to join likud harms hopes for peace israeli labour party head ehud barack 's decision to take part in a government led by hardliner benjamin netanyahu is a disservice to the labour party and , more importantly , to hopes for peace , writes dw 's peter philipp .
-lrb- 25.03.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live motor mobil we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live world in progress listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
travel passau is called the three river city , but it is just as famous for its baroque splendor .
passau - baroque facades and vibrant arts watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
steinmeier urges israeli counterpart to accept two-state plan -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 07.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de israel -pipe- 07.05.2009 steinmeier urges israeli counterpart to accept two-state plan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lieberman has been making his first official visit to berlin while in berlin , israel 's foreign minister has left a cloud over the mideast peace process , calling it a waste of money . israeli foreign minister avigdor lieberman has left german parliamentarians pessimistic about the future of the middle east peace process .
in berlin , the last stop of his four-day european tour , the right-wing minister refused to commit to a two-state solution for israel and the palestinian territories .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lieberman -lrb- right -rrb- with ruprecht polenz , chairman of the foreign affairs committee during talks with members of the german parliamentary foreign affairs committee lieberman said the peace process had been little more than a waste of money .
he also brought up iran , saying the country was a major threat .
later in the day , lieberman paid his respects at berlin 's holocaust memorial , laying a wreath at the 19,000-square-meter monument in the center of berlin .
lieberman later held talks with german interior minister wolfgang schaeuble , followed by dinner with his german counterpart frank-walter steinmeier .
germany 's top diplomat urged the controversial israeli foreign minister to adopt a two-state plan as the basis for peace in the middle east and the " sole path to peace and security . "
steinmeier emphasized that the german government expected the new israeli administration under prime minister benjamin netanyahu would abide with previous peace commitments .
the german minister said it was important to stregthen moderate forces in the region and actively involve them in the peace process .
with regard to the situation in the gaza strip , steinmeier said it was imperative that palestinians had access to aid supplies .
the israeli foreign minister , who heads a nationalist party in prime minister benjamin netanyahu 's coalition , caused a stir on his first day in office , when he announced that israel was no longer bound by the so-called annapolis peace process , which formed the basis of the israeli-palestinian peace talks in 2008 .
lieberman 's european visit - which has included meetings in rome , paris and european union talks in prague - was mostly conducted out of the media eye .
in berlin , no joint press conference or photo call was scheduled for his meeting with steinmeier .
this echoed lieberman 's reception in france , where foreign minister bernard kouchner chose not to hold a joint press conference as had been customary when lieberman 's predecessor tzipi livni came to paris . ch / pfd / nrt , rtr / dpa / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de merkel says " no alternative " to two-state solution in middle east german chancellor angela merkel has said there is no alternative to a two-state solution to the mideast crisis following talks in berlin on wednesday with jordan 's king abdullah ii .
-lrb- 06.05.2009 -rrb- netanyahu demands that palestinians recognize israel as jewish state israeli prime minister benjamin netanyahu has demanded palestinians recognize israel as a jewish state .
the call was made during his meeting with the visiting us special envoy to the middle east , george mitchell .
-lrb- 16.04.2009 -rrb- opinion : labour decision to join likud harms hopes for peace israeli labour party head ehud barack 's decision to take part in a government led by hardliner benjamin netanyahu is a disservice to the labour party and , more importantly , to hopes for peace , writes dw 's peter philipp .
-lrb- 25.03.2009 -rrb- 9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live arts.21 we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inside europe listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
steinmeier urges israeli counterpart to accept two-state plan -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 28.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de israel -pipe- 07.05.2009 steinmeier urges israeli counterpart to accept two-state plan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lieberman has been making his first official visit to berlin while in berlin , israel 's foreign minister has left a cloud over the mideast peace process , calling it a waste of money . israeli foreign minister avigdor lieberman has left german parliamentarians pessimistic about the future of the middle east peace process .
in berlin , the last stop of his four-day european tour , the right-wing minister refused to commit to a two-state solution for israel and the palestinian territories .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lieberman -lrb- right -rrb- with ruprecht polenz , chairman of the foreign affairs committee during talks with members of the german parliamentary foreign affairs committee lieberman said the peace process had been little more than a waste of money .
he also brought up iran , saying the country was a major threat .
later in the day , lieberman paid his respects at berlin 's holocaust memorial , laying a wreath at the 19,000-square-meter monument in the center of berlin .
lieberman later held talks with german interior minister wolfgang schaeuble , followed by dinner with his german counterpart frank-walter steinmeier .
germany 's top diplomat urged the controversial israeli foreign minister to adopt a two-state plan as the basis for peace in the middle east and the " sole path to peace and security . "
steinmeier emphasized that the german government expected the new israeli administration under prime minister benjamin netanyahu would abide with previous peace commitments .
the german minister said it was important to stregthen moderate forces in the region and actively involve them in the peace process .
with regard to the situation in the gaza strip , steinmeier said it was imperative that palestinians had access to aid supplies .
the israeli foreign minister , who heads a nationalist party in prime minister benjamin netanyahu 's coalition , caused a stir on his first day in office , when he announced that israel was no longer bound by the so-called annapolis peace process , which formed the basis of the israeli-palestinian peace talks in 2008 .
lieberman 's european visit - which has included meetings in rome , paris and european union talks in prague - was mostly conducted out of the media eye .
in berlin , no joint press conference or photo call was scheduled for his meeting with steinmeier .
this echoed lieberman 's reception in france , where foreign minister bernard kouchner chose not to hold a joint press conference as had been customary when lieberman 's predecessor tzipi livni came to paris . ch / pfd / nrt , rtr / dpa / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de merkel says " no alternative " to two-state solution in middle east german chancellor angela merkel has said there is no alternative to a two-state solution to the mideast crisis following talks in berlin on wednesday with jordan 's king abdullah ii .
-lrb- 06.05.2009 -rrb- netanyahu demands that palestinians recognize israel as jewish state israeli prime minister benjamin netanyahu has demanded palestinians recognize israel as a jewish state .
the call was made during his meeting with the visiting us special envoy to the middle east , george mitchell .
-lrb- 16.04.2009 -rrb- opinion : labour decision to join likud harms hopes for peace israeli labour party head ehud barack 's decision to take part in a government led by hardliner benjamin netanyahu is a disservice to the labour party and , more importantly , to hopes for peace , writes dw 's peter philipp .
-lrb- 25.03.2009 -rrb- 9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live made in germany - das wirtschaftsmagazin we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive. tourism germany 's north sea coast boasts some of the longest and most attractive beaches in europe .
watch the video dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
suspected war criminal loses us court appeal to stop deportation -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de world war ii -pipe- 07.05.2009 suspected war criminal loses us court appeal to stop deportation großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : john demjanjuk appears to be losing legal battle against deportation to germany a us supreme court judge has said he will not block the alleged nazi death camp guard john demjanjuk 's deportation to germany to face a war crimes trial . the 89-year-old demjanjuk claims he is too ill to fly to germany .
he is accused of being a guard at the sobibor extermination camp during world war ii and of being an accessory to the murder of some 29,000 jews .
demjanjuk , who is ukrainian born , denies the charges , saying he was captured by the nazis and then kept as a prisoner of war .
german authorities allege that demjanjuk , then 23 , worked from march-september 1943 as a guard in nazi-occupied poland at the sobibor concentration camp .
prosecutors in munich issued an arrest warrant for him in march .
the us supreme court move was seen as one of the last ways to prevent his being taken to germany .
however , under court rules , his lawyers may still submit applications for a stay to the court 's other eight justices .
the lower court had dismissed arguments by demjanjuk 's lawyer that transporting him to germany would pose an undue risk to his health .
it accepted us government assurances that he would receive sufficient medical care during the trip .
the us justice department said it would continue to work with the german government on demjanjuk 's removal , but a spokeswoman could not provide details about the timing of a possible deportation .
a german tribunal earlier on thursday ruled that the german government is under no duty to oppose demjanjuk 's expulsion from us soil to germany .
following world war ii , demjanjuk lived in germany as a refugee until 1952 when he changed his first name from ivan to john and moved to the united states .
demjanjuk was acquitted in 1993 by the israeli supreme court of charges that he worked at a different death camp , treblinka , saving him from the death sentence of a lower court in israel .
but when he returned to the us , he was stripped of his us citizenship . nrt , mh dpa / reuters / ap send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ? 9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
in depth focus on libya dw-world looks at the turmoil in libya : what it means for tripoli and the rest of the world .
podcast series a berlin designer prompts thought about waste by turning trash , like used teabags , into treasures .
download the report subscribe to the series on itunes past episodes climate change check out deutsche welle 's multimedia coverage of people and projects combating climate change .
the global ideas page learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
suspected war criminal loses us court appeal to stop deportation -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 01.11.2010 home news germany europe world from tierra del fuego to tijuana asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de world war ii -pipe- 07.05.2009 suspected war criminal loses us court appeal to stop deportation großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : john demjanjuk appears to be losing legal battle against deportation to germany a us supreme court judge has said he will not block the alleged nazi death camp guard john demjanjuk 's deportation to germany to face a war crimes trial . the 89-year-old demjanjuk claims he is too ill to fly to germany .
he is accused of being a guard at the sobibor extermination camp during world war ii and of being an accessory to the murder of some 29,000 jews .
demjanjuk , who is ukrainian born , denies the charges , saying he was captured by the nazis and then kept as a prisoner of war .
german authorities allege that demjanjuk , then 23 , worked from march-september 1943 as a guard in nazi-occupied poland at the sobibor concentration camp .
prosecutors in munich issued an arrest warrant for him in march .
the us supreme court move was seen as one of the last ways to prevent his being taken to germany .
however , under court rules , his lawyers may still submit applications for a stay to the court 's other eight justices .
the lower court had dismissed arguments by demjanjuk 's lawyer that transporting him to germany would pose an undue risk to his health .
it accepted us government assurances that he would receive sufficient medical care during the trip .
the us justice department said it would continue to work with the german government on demjanjuk 's removal , but a spokeswoman could not provide details about the timing of a possible deportation .
a german tribunal earlier on thursday ruled that the german government is under no duty to oppose demjanjuk 's expulsion from us soil to germany .
following world war ii , demjanjuk lived in germany as a refugee until 1952 when he changed his first name from ivan to john and moved to the united states .
demjanjuk was acquitted in 1993 by the israeli supreme court of charges that he worked at a different death camp , treblinka , saving him from the death sentence of a lower court in israel .
but when he returned to the us , he was stripped of his us citizenship . nrt , mh dpa / reuters / ap send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live concert hour beethovenfest 2010 listen live learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan new web site check out deutsche welle 's new asia page in english .
dw asia online news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's newest media partner latin america take a multimedia journey discover the region and its people © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
suspected war criminal loses us court appeal to stop deportation -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 22.09.2010 home news germany europe world from tierra del fuego to tijuana asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de world war ii -pipe- 07.05.2009 suspected war criminal loses us court appeal to stop deportation großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : john demjanjuk appears to be losing legal battle against deportation to germany a us supreme court judge has said he will not block the alleged nazi death camp guard john demjanjuk 's deportation to germany to face a war crimes trial . the 89-year-old demjanjuk claims he is too ill to fly to germany .
he is accused of being a guard at the sobibor extermination camp during world war ii and of being an accessory to the murder of some 29,000 jews .
demjanjuk , who is ukrainian born , denies the charges , saying he was captured by the nazis and then kept as a prisoner of war .
german authorities allege that demjanjuk , then 23 , worked from march-september 1943 as a guard in nazi-occupied poland at the sobibor concentration camp .
prosecutors in munich issued an arrest warrant for him in march .
the us supreme court move was seen as one of the last ways to prevent his being taken to germany .
however , under court rules , his lawyers may still submit applications for a stay to the court 's other eight justices .
the lower court had dismissed arguments by demjanjuk 's lawyer that transporting him to germany would pose an undue risk to his health .
it accepted us government assurances that he would receive sufficient medical care during the trip .
the us justice department said it would continue to work with the german government on demjanjuk 's removal , but a spokeswoman could not provide details about the timing of a possible deportation .
a german tribunal earlier on thursday ruled that the german government is under no duty to oppose demjanjuk 's expulsion from us soil to germany .
following world war ii , demjanjuk lived in germany as a refugee until 1952 when he changed his first name from ivan to john and moved to the united states .
demjanjuk was acquitted in 1993 by the israeli supreme court of charges that he worked at a different death camp , treblinka , saving him from the death sentence of a lower court in israel .
but when he returned to the us , he was stripped of his us citizenship . nrt , mh dpa / reuters / ap send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live im focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live diplomatic row dw 's china correspondent on rising sino-japanese tensions following arrest of chinese trawlerman .
listen to the interview learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan new web site check out deutsche welle 's new asia page in english .
dw asia online news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's newest media partner latin america take a multimedia journey discover the region and its people © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
suspected war criminal loses us court appeal to stop deportation -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 02.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de world war ii -pipe- 07.05.2009 suspected war criminal loses us court appeal to stop deportation großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : john demjanjuk appears to be losing legal battle against deportation to germany a us supreme court judge has said he will not block the alleged nazi death camp guard john demjanjuk 's deportation to germany to face a war crimes trial . the 89-year-old demjanjuk claims he is too ill to fly to germany .
he is accused of being a guard at the sobibor extermination camp during world war ii and of being an accessory to the murder of some 29,000 jews .
demjanjuk , who is ukrainian born , denies the charges , saying he was captured by the nazis and then kept as a prisoner of war .
german authorities allege that demjanjuk , then 23 , worked from march-september 1943 as a guard in nazi-occupied poland at the sobibor concentration camp .
prosecutors in munich issued an arrest warrant for him in march .
the us supreme court move was seen as one of the last ways to prevent his being taken to germany .
however , under court rules , his lawyers may still submit applications for a stay to the court 's other eight justices .
the lower court had dismissed arguments by demjanjuk 's lawyer that transporting him to germany would pose an undue risk to his health .
it accepted us government assurances that he would receive sufficient medical care during the trip .
the us justice department said it would continue to work with the german government on demjanjuk 's removal , but a spokeswoman could not provide details about the timing of a possible deportation .
a german tribunal earlier on thursday ruled that the german government is under no duty to oppose demjanjuk 's expulsion from us soil to germany .
following world war ii , demjanjuk lived in germany as a refugee until 1952 when he changed his first name from ivan to john and moved to the united states .
demjanjuk was acquitted in 1993 by the israeli supreme court of charges that he worked at a different death camp , treblinka , saving him from the death sentence of a lower court in israel .
but when he returned to the us , he was stripped of his us citizenship . nrt , mh dpa / reuters / ap send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
caucasus violence explodes in the republic of dagestan amid militants ' efforts to create a muslim nation .
listen to the report .
bundles of booty where do dictators stash their cash ?
asset trackers use ' ladders ' to follow the money .
listen to the report .
transatlantic voices germany 's gremlins berlin needs an overdue debate on what the responsibility to protect means for germany and europe .
international conference media representatives around the world gather in bonn to discuss human rights .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
suspected war criminal loses us court appeal to stop deportation -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 16.12.2010 home news germany europe world from tierra del fuego to tijuana asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de world war ii -pipe- 07.05.2009 suspected war criminal loses us court appeal to stop deportation großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : john demjanjuk appears to be losing legal battle against deportation to germany a us supreme court judge has said he will not block the alleged nazi death camp guard john demjanjuk 's deportation to germany to face a war crimes trial . the 89-year-old demjanjuk claims he is too ill to fly to germany .
he is accused of being a guard at the sobibor extermination camp during world war ii and of being an accessory to the murder of some 29,000 jews .
demjanjuk , who is ukrainian born , denies the charges , saying he was captured by the nazis and then kept as a prisoner of war .
german authorities allege that demjanjuk , then 23 , worked from march-september 1943 as a guard in nazi-occupied poland at the sobibor concentration camp .
prosecutors in munich issued an arrest warrant for him in march .
the us supreme court move was seen as one of the last ways to prevent his being taken to germany .
however , under court rules , his lawyers may still submit applications for a stay to the court 's other eight justices .
the lower court had dismissed arguments by demjanjuk 's lawyer that transporting him to germany would pose an undue risk to his health .
it accepted us government assurances that he would receive sufficient medical care during the trip .
the us justice department said it would continue to work with the german government on demjanjuk 's removal , but a spokeswoman could not provide details about the timing of a possible deportation .
a german tribunal earlier on thursday ruled that the german government is under no duty to oppose demjanjuk 's expulsion from us soil to germany .
following world war ii , demjanjuk lived in germany as a refugee until 1952 when he changed his first name from ivan to john and moved to the united states .
demjanjuk was acquitted in 1993 by the israeli supreme court of charges that he worked at a different death camp , treblinka , saving him from the death sentence of a lower court in israel .
but when he returned to the us , he was stripped of his us citizenship . nrt , mh dpa / reuters / ap send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
focus wikileaks read our dw-world focus on the latest wikileaks revelations and their impact around the globe .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan new web site check out deutsche welle 's new asia page in english .
dw asia online latin america take a multimedia journey discover the region and its people news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's newest media partner © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
suspected war criminal loses us court appeal to stop deportation -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 24.01.2011 home news germany europe world from tierra del fuego to tijuana asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de world war ii -pipe- 07.05.2009 suspected war criminal loses us court appeal to stop deportation großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : john demjanjuk appears to be losing legal battle against deportation to germany a us supreme court judge has said he will not block the alleged nazi death camp guard john demjanjuk 's deportation to germany to face a war crimes trial . the 89-year-old demjanjuk claims he is too ill to fly to germany .
he is accused of being a guard at the sobibor extermination camp during world war ii and of being an accessory to the murder of some 29,000 jews .
demjanjuk , who is ukrainian born , denies the charges , saying he was captured by the nazis and then kept as a prisoner of war .
german authorities allege that demjanjuk , then 23 , worked from march-september 1943 as a guard in nazi-occupied poland at the sobibor concentration camp .
prosecutors in munich issued an arrest warrant for him in march .
the us supreme court move was seen as one of the last ways to prevent his being taken to germany .
however , under court rules , his lawyers may still submit applications for a stay to the court 's other eight justices .
the lower court had dismissed arguments by demjanjuk 's lawyer that transporting him to germany would pose an undue risk to his health .
it accepted us government assurances that he would receive sufficient medical care during the trip .
the us justice department said it would continue to work with the german government on demjanjuk 's removal , but a spokeswoman could not provide details about the timing of a possible deportation .
a german tribunal earlier on thursday ruled that the german government is under no duty to oppose demjanjuk 's expulsion from us soil to germany .
following world war ii , demjanjuk lived in germany as a refugee until 1952 when he changed his first name from ivan to john and moved to the united states .
demjanjuk was acquitted in 1993 by the israeli supreme court of charges that he worked at a different death camp , treblinka , saving him from the death sentence of a lower court in israel .
but when he returned to the us , he was stripped of his us citizenship . nrt , mh dpa / reuters / ap send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan latin america take a multimedia journey discover the region and its people news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's newest media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
suspected war criminal loses us court appeal to stop deportation -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 07.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de world war ii -pipe- 07.05.2009 suspected war criminal loses us court appeal to stop deportation großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : john demjanjuk appears to be losing legal battle against deportation to germany a us supreme court judge has said he will not block the alleged nazi death camp guard john demjanjuk 's deportation to germany to face a war crimes trial . the 89-year-old demjanjuk claims he is too ill to fly to germany .
he is accused of being a guard at the sobibor extermination camp during world war ii and of being an accessory to the murder of some 29,000 jews .
demjanjuk , who is ukrainian born , denies the charges , saying he was captured by the nazis and then kept as a prisoner of war .
german authorities allege that demjanjuk , then 23 , worked from march-september 1943 as a guard in nazi-occupied poland at the sobibor concentration camp .
prosecutors in munich issued an arrest warrant for him in march .
the us supreme court move was seen as one of the last ways to prevent his being taken to germany .
however , under court rules , his lawyers may still submit applications for a stay to the court 's other eight justices .
the lower court had dismissed arguments by demjanjuk 's lawyer that transporting him to germany would pose an undue risk to his health .
it accepted us government assurances that he would receive sufficient medical care during the trip .
the us justice department said it would continue to work with the german government on demjanjuk 's removal , but a spokeswoman could not provide details about the timing of a possible deportation .
a german tribunal earlier on thursday ruled that the german government is under no duty to oppose demjanjuk 's expulsion from us soil to germany .
following world war ii , demjanjuk lived in germany as a refugee until 1952 when he changed his first name from ivan to john and moved to the united states .
demjanjuk was acquitted in 1993 by the israeli supreme court of charges that he worked at a different death camp , treblinka , saving him from the death sentence of a lower court in israel .
but when he returned to the us , he was stripped of his us citizenship . nrt , mh dpa / reuters / ap send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ? 9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
focus on syria rattling a regime in-depth coverage of the violent protests against the syrian government .
focus on libya libya 's uprising dw-world looks at the turmoil in libya : what it means for tripoli and the rest of the world .
podcast series a former street child in indonesia gives back to kids in need .
listen to the report subscribe to the series on itunes past episodes international conference media representatives around the world gather in bonn to discuss human rights .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
bremen book a place in the uefa cup final , clinching a win against rivals hamburg -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 22.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de soccer -pipe- 07.05.2009 bremen book a place in the uefa cup final , clinching a win against rivals hamburg großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bremen 's diego scores but will miss the uefa cup final .
werder bremen came from a goal down to win 3-2 away to sv hamburg thursday to book a uefa cup final date in istanbul against ukrainian side shakhtar donetsk . diego , claudio pizarro and frank baumann were the goal-scoring heroes for bremen to advance to their first ever european final on may 20 in istanbul .
bremen went into the clash trailing 1-0 from the first leg but conceded a goal to hosts hamburg in the 13th minute when joris mathijsen powered his way upfield from defence before finding ivica olic who chipped the ball over bremen 's goalkeepr tim wiese .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : hamburgs 's ivica olic , left , scores his side 's first goal past bremen 's goalkeeper tim wiese olic could have doubled hamburg 's lead on 27 minutes but his effort from close range was saved .
within two minutes bremen were level when diego and pizarro combined well before the brazilian slotted the ball past frank rost .
diego nearly netted a second on 37 minutes but his shot from 25 metres hit the crossbar .
however , the 24-year-old was booked two minutes before the break for an off-the-ball row with alex silva , who also saw yellow , meaning the brazilian will miss the final .
" it was a difficult situation i did n't do anything , not to go to the final is very bad for me , " said diego .
peruvian striker pizarro scored on 66 minutes , beating rost at the near post although the hamburg goalkeeper really should have done better .
baumann looked to have put the game beyond hamburg with bremen 's third seven minutes from time and although olic popped up to score his second of the game to make it 3-2 on the night to set up a tense finale , bremen held on to make it to their first uefa cup final .
" we played well , it was tough to come from two goals down , " said pizarro .
" diego played a great match its a pity he 's not in the final but thats football . "
bremen are the first german side to reach a uefa cup final since borussia dortmund reached the final in 2002 only to lose against feyenoord rotterdam .
ruhr valley side schalke 04 were the last german winners back in 1997 .
same procedure ?
thursday 's semi-final fixture is the third in a series of four matches to be played between the two northern german clubs within a 19-day period . the first game went bremen 's way when goalkeeper tim wiese made three saves in a penalty shootout to knock hamburg out of the german cup semi-final on april 22 . the second saw hamburg gain revenge eight days later with its 0-1 victory in bremen .
the fourth and final derby match is a bundesliga fixture scheduled for sunday , may 10 . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : thomas schaaf has coached werder bremen for a decade intense rivalry as the two biggest cities in northern germany , hamburg and bremen have a long history of competing with each other as hanseatic trading powers , regional centers of industry and culture , and sporting contenders . " what 's very special is that they more or less share the same backyard from which they can get their soccer fans , " deutsche welle 's sports head wolfgang van kann says .
" so it 's always a question of who is better , and where the fans will go . " from a historical perspective , it 's difficult to say which club has been more successful .
according to the so-called " eternal table , " which records the performances of all bundesliga clubs since the competition was founded in 1963 , werder bremen and hamburg are ranked second and third respectively .
at the time of writing , they were separated by just six points . " clearly hamburg has the longer tradition and the longer streak of success , " van kann says .
" bremen has only come up in the last one or two decades , but with huge success . " while hamburg has n't won a title since it lifted the german cup in 1987 , bremen won the german double in 2004 and has qualified for the champions league for the past five seasons . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : fans were disgusted when hooligans killed a 16-year-old in 1982 " the clubs have always been very different , " van kann explains .
" for example you can see that hamburg has had several coaches within the past few years , while bremen has only had one coach for the last 10 years . " fan violence one thing the two clubs do have in common is a dedicated fan base .
hamburg boasts almost 55,000 members , while bremen has more than 30,000 .
but violence involving so-called " ultras " and militant fan groups has driven a wedge between the two cities on more than one occasion . the worst incident took place in october 1982 , when hamburg hosted bremen for a second-round german cup match .
despite a large police presence around the main train station and the stadium , hooligans belonging to a group known as the " hamburg lions " attacked visitors with beer cans , stones and fireworks . a 16-year-old bremen fan named adrian maleika was killed after he was hit on the head by a stone .
while most of germany was shocked , a number of hard-line fans were quoted in the press as being indifferent or hungry for revenge . tensions between supporters of the rival clubs threatened to boil over until representatives of more than 200 fan groups met in the town of scheessel , half-way between bremen and hamburg , and signed a " peace deal " banning revenge attacks . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : werder bremen topped the bundesliga in 1993 and 2004 while provocative lyrics sung in stadiums during northern derbies occasionally refer to the incident , most fans have put the conflict behind them , and prefer to remember - or forget - these four landmark matches from the past 30 years : bremen 6-0 hamburg , may 1 , 2004 the most one-sided result between the two clubs was in bremen as the 2003-04 bundesliga season drew to an end .
some 42,000 spectators watched hamburg striker sergej barbarez score an own-goal and trigger an avalanche of bremen goals .
one match later , werder bremen won the championship with a spectacular 3-1 victory over bayern munich . bremen 4-2 hamburg , october 27 , 1993 just over 34,000 fans turned out to watch the fourth round german cup fixture in bremen 's weserstadion .
austrian midfielder andreas herzog gave bremen an early lead , but hamburg managed to score twice after the break before bernd hobsch leveled the scores in the 74th minute .
when hamburg 's andreas sassen was shown a red card , bremen 's frank neubarth and wynton rufer capitalized by both finding the net in the final four minutes .
the convincing victory saw werder bremen progress through the tournament to win the 1993 german cup . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : horst hrubesch was a key player for hamburg in 1982 .
bremen 5-0 hamburg , may 29 , 1993 bremen also secured the bundesliga crown with one game to spare in 1993 thanks to this overwhelming victory .
andreas herzog and wynton rufer both scored as the home crowd celebrated their club 's third title .
bremen ended the season one point ahead of bayern munich , leaving hamburg to finish 11th .
legendary bremen coach otto rehhagel described the victory as a " milestone " for the club . hamburg 5-0 bremen , may 15 , 1982 one of hamburg 's two highest-ever wins against their northern derby rivals came in the closing stages of the 1981/1982 campaign .
a total of 53,400 fans watched horst hrubesch - now germany 's under-21 coach - score a hat-trick as hamburg demolished bremen 's defense to win the bundesliga title at the expense of second-placed fc cologne . author : sam edmonds editor : darren mara send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de hamburg move closer to uefa final after bremen defeat sv hamburg took the advantage on thursday after defeating bremen 1-0 in the first leg of their uefa cup semi-final matches .
hamburg 's coach says their position is good for the second leg , but bremen is not giving up .
-lrb- 01.05.2009 -rrb- german , ukrainian clubs fight for uefa cup honors domestic pride will be at stake in europe when ukrainian and german clubs battle against each other in the semi-finals of the uefa cup in first-leg matches on thursday .
-lrb- 30.04.2009 -rrb- werder bremen beat hamburg in cup semi-final bremen beat hamburg on penalties to reach the cup final .
bremen 's goalie tim wiese was the man of the game as he saved three penalties .
his side will now face leverkusen in the final .
-lrb- 23.04.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live kino we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live bundesliga predictions spot on dw pundits hope to get a little closer to perfection with their match day 19 picks .
dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results at a glance .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia moenchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
steinmeier urges israeli counterpart to accept two-state plan -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 14.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de israel -pipe- 07.05.2009 steinmeier urges israeli counterpart to accept two-state plan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lieberman has been making his first official visit to berlin while in berlin , israel 's foreign minister has left a cloud over the mideast peace process , calling it a waste of money . israeli foreign minister avigdor lieberman has left german parliamentarians pessimistic about the future of the middle east peace process .
in berlin , the last stop of his four-day european tour , the right-wing minister refused to commit to a two-state solution for israel and the palestinian territories .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lieberman -lrb- right -rrb- with ruprecht polenz , chairman of the foreign affairs committee during talks with members of the german parliamentary foreign affairs committee lieberman said the peace process had been little more than a waste of money .
he also brought up iran , saying the country was a major threat .
later in the day , lieberman paid his respects at berlin 's holocaust memorial , laying a wreath at the 19,000-square-meter monument in the center of berlin .
lieberman later held talks with german interior minister wolfgang schaeuble , followed by dinner with his german counterpart frank-walter steinmeier .
germany 's top diplomat urged the controversial israeli foreign minister to adopt a two-state plan as the basis for peace in the middle east and the " sole path to peace and security . "
steinmeier emphasized that the german government expected the new israeli administration under prime minister benjamin netanyahu would abide with previous peace commitments .
the german minister said it was important to stregthen moderate forces in the region and actively involve them in the peace process .
with regard to the situation in the gaza strip , steinmeier said it was imperative that palestinians had access to aid supplies .
the israeli foreign minister , who heads a nationalist party in prime minister benjamin netanyahu 's coalition , caused a stir on his first day in office , when he announced that israel was no longer bound by the so-called annapolis peace process , which formed the basis of the israeli-palestinian peace talks in 2008 .
lieberman 's european visit - which has included meetings in rome , paris and european union talks in prague - was mostly conducted out of the media eye .
in berlin , no joint press conference or photo call was scheduled for his meeting with steinmeier .
this echoed lieberman 's reception in france , where foreign minister bernard kouchner chose not to hold a joint press conference as had been customary when lieberman 's predecessor tzipi livni came to paris . ch / pfd / nrt , rtr / dpa / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de merkel says " no alternative " to two-state solution in middle east german chancellor angela merkel has said there is no alternative to a two-state solution to the mideast crisis following talks in berlin on wednesday with jordan 's king abdullah ii .
-lrb- 06.05.2009 -rrb- netanyahu demands that palestinians recognize israel as jewish state israeli prime minister benjamin netanyahu has demanded palestinians recognize israel as a jewish state .
the call was made during his meeting with the visiting us special envoy to the middle east , george mitchell .
-lrb- 16.04.2009 -rrb- opinion : labour decision to join likud harms hopes for peace israeli labour party head ehud barack 's decision to take part in a government led by hardliner benjamin netanyahu is a disservice to the labour party and , more importantly , to hopes for peace , writes dw 's peter philipp .
-lrb- 25.03.2009 -rrb- 9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live in focus - documentaries and reports we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live arts on the air listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
digital street art artists in berlin reinvent graffiti by projecting light onto buildings using computer systems .
watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
suspected war criminal loses us court appeal to stop deportation -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 25.09.2010 home news germany europe world from tierra del fuego to tijuana asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de world war ii -pipe- 07.05.2009 suspected war criminal loses us court appeal to stop deportation großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : john demjanjuk appears to be losing legal battle against deportation to germany a us supreme court judge has said he will not block the alleged nazi death camp guard john demjanjuk 's deportation to germany to face a war crimes trial . the 89-year-old demjanjuk claims he is too ill to fly to germany .
he is accused of being a guard at the sobibor extermination camp during world war ii and of being an accessory to the murder of some 29,000 jews .
demjanjuk , who is ukrainian born , denies the charges , saying he was captured by the nazis and then kept as a prisoner of war .
german authorities allege that demjanjuk , then 23 , worked from march-september 1943 as a guard in nazi-occupied poland at the sobibor concentration camp .
prosecutors in munich issued an arrest warrant for him in march .
the us supreme court move was seen as one of the last ways to prevent his being taken to germany .
however , under court rules , his lawyers may still submit applications for a stay to the court 's other eight justices .
the lower court had dismissed arguments by demjanjuk 's lawyer that transporting him to germany would pose an undue risk to his health .
it accepted us government assurances that he would receive sufficient medical care during the trip .
the us justice department said it would continue to work with the german government on demjanjuk 's removal , but a spokeswoman could not provide details about the timing of a possible deportation .
a german tribunal earlier on thursday ruled that the german government is under no duty to oppose demjanjuk 's expulsion from us soil to germany .
following world war ii , demjanjuk lived in germany as a refugee until 1952 when he changed his first name from ivan to john and moved to the united states .
demjanjuk was acquitted in 1993 by the israeli supreme court of charges that he worked at a different death camp , treblinka , saving him from the death sentence of a lower court in israel .
but when he returned to the us , he was stripped of his us citizenship . nrt , mh dpa / reuters / ap send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live arts.21 we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inside europe listen live no nukes critics say us president obama 's latest push for a world free of nuclear weapons is unrealistic .
watch the video learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan new web site check out deutsche welle 's new asia page in english .
dw asia online news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's newest media partner latin america take a multimedia journey discover the region and its people © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
suspected war criminal loses us court appeal to stop deportation -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 20.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de world war ii -pipe- 07.05.2009 suspected war criminal loses us court appeal to stop deportation großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : john demjanjuk appears to be losing legal battle against deportation to germany a us supreme court judge has said he will not block the alleged nazi death camp guard john demjanjuk 's deportation to germany to face a war crimes trial . the 89-year-old demjanjuk claims he is too ill to fly to germany .
he is accused of being a guard at the sobibor extermination camp during world war ii and of being an accessory to the murder of some 29,000 jews .
demjanjuk , who is ukrainian born , denies the charges , saying he was captured by the nazis and then kept as a prisoner of war .
german authorities allege that demjanjuk , then 23 , worked from march-september 1943 as a guard in nazi-occupied poland at the sobibor concentration camp .
prosecutors in munich issued an arrest warrant for him in march .
the us supreme court move was seen as one of the last ways to prevent his being taken to germany .
however , under court rules , his lawyers may still submit applications for a stay to the court 's other eight justices .
the lower court had dismissed arguments by demjanjuk 's lawyer that transporting him to germany would pose an undue risk to his health .
it accepted us government assurances that he would receive sufficient medical care during the trip .
the us justice department said it would continue to work with the german government on demjanjuk 's removal , but a spokeswoman could not provide details about the timing of a possible deportation .
a german tribunal earlier on thursday ruled that the german government is under no duty to oppose demjanjuk 's expulsion from us soil to germany .
following world war ii , demjanjuk lived in germany as a refugee until 1952 when he changed his first name from ivan to john and moved to the united states .
demjanjuk was acquitted in 1993 by the israeli supreme court of charges that he worked at a different death camp , treblinka , saving him from the death sentence of a lower court in israel .
but when he returned to the us , he was stripped of his us citizenship . nrt , mh dpa / reuters / ap send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ? 9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
in depth al qaeda 's future deutsche welle takes a closer look at osama bin laden and the terrorist network he spearheaded .
podcast series omar from senegal advocates for refugees on spanish stages .
listen to the report subscribe to the series on itunes past episodes international conference media representatives around the world gather in bonn to discuss human rights .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german industrial orders make surprise jump -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 15.09.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de business -pipe- 07.05.2009 german industrial orders make surprise jump großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : daimler truck factory in woerth - demand for german manufactured goods is up german industrial orders in march showed their first rise for six months , on the back of an increase in orders from abroad . preliminary government figures show that german industrial orders grew an unexpected 3.3 percent in march , driven by an increase in demand from abroad .
the rise - economists had expected a moderate fall for the world 's top exporter - is the first piece of hard data to back up the government 's prediction that the economy is set to grow slightly in 2010 .
the german economy is expected to experience negative growth of around six percent this year .
germany 's economics ministry said the seasonally adjusted rise did not even begin to make up for recent months , with orders for goods falling by 14.5 percent in the first quarter .
the ministry said , though , that the latest numbers showed the trend had changed .
the march increase compared with a 3.1 percent drop in february ; and was largely due to a 5.6 percent increase in orders from abroad .
domestic orders also grew by just over one percent .
the month-on-month climb in march was stronger than expected and indicated that europe 's biggest economy may already be on the rebound from the worst effects of the global recession .
however , the european commission slashed its economic projections on monday , saying europe 's economy would shrink by four per cent this year .
that 's double the figure that it predicted at the start of the year . ch / pfd , rtr / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german business confidence falls ; economists say turnaround near business confidence in europe 's largest economy has reached an all time low , but according to some economists , things could level out and even rebound in the coming months .
-lrb- 26.03.2009 -rrb- europe to lose 3.5 million jobs in 2009 , study says a new study by the eu commission says that jobless rolls in the european union will swell by a further 3.5 million this year as the global economic slowdown batters labor markets across europe .
-lrb- 18.02.2009 -rrb- airbus warns of " horrible " year ahead european aircraft manufacturing giant airbus expects a dismal year with orders plummeting as the global economic crisis hits the aviation industry .
-lrb- 15.01.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german industrial orders make surprise jump -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 25.01.2011 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de business -pipe- 07.05.2009 german industrial orders make surprise jump großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : daimler truck factory in woerth - demand for german manufactured goods is up german industrial orders in march showed their first rise for six months , on the back of an increase in orders from abroad . preliminary government figures show that german industrial orders grew an unexpected 3.3 percent in march , driven by an increase in demand from abroad .
the rise - economists had expected a moderate fall for the world 's top exporter - is the first piece of hard data to back up the government 's prediction that the economy is set to grow slightly in 2010 .
the german economy is expected to experience negative growth of around six percent this year .
germany 's economics ministry said the seasonally adjusted rise did not even begin to make up for recent months , with orders for goods falling by 14.5 percent in the first quarter .
the ministry said , though , that the latest numbers showed the trend had changed .
the march increase compared with a 3.1 percent drop in february ; and was largely due to a 5.6 percent increase in orders from abroad .
domestic orders also grew by just over one percent .
the month-on-month climb in march was stronger than expected and indicated that europe 's biggest economy may already be on the rebound from the worst effects of the global recession .
however , the european commission slashed its economic projections on monday , saying europe 's economy would shrink by four per cent this year .
that 's double the figure that it predicted at the start of the year . ch / pfd , rtr / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german business confidence falls ; economists say turnaround near business confidence in europe 's largest economy has reached an all time low , but according to some economists , things could level out and even rebound in the coming months .
-lrb- 26.03.2009 -rrb- europe to lose 3.5 million jobs in 2009 , study says a new study by the eu commission says that jobless rolls in the european union will swell by a further 3.5 million this year as the global economic slowdown batters labor markets across europe .
-lrb- 18.02.2009 -rrb- airbus warns of " horrible " year ahead european aircraft manufacturing giant airbus expects a dismal year with orders plummeting as the global economic crisis hits the aviation industry .
-lrb- 15.01.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german industrial orders make surprise jump -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 20.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de business -pipe- 07.05.2009 german industrial orders make surprise jump großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : daimler truck factory in woerth - demand for german manufactured goods is up german industrial orders in march showed their first rise for six months , on the back of an increase in orders from abroad . preliminary government figures show that german industrial orders grew an unexpected 3.3 percent in march , driven by an increase in demand from abroad .
the rise - economists had expected a moderate fall for the world 's top exporter - is the first piece of hard data to back up the government 's prediction that the economy is set to grow slightly in 2010 .
the german economy is expected to experience negative growth of around six percent this year .
germany 's economics ministry said the seasonally adjusted rise did not even begin to make up for recent months , with orders for goods falling by 14.5 percent in the first quarter .
the ministry said , though , that the latest numbers showed the trend had changed .
the march increase compared with a 3.1 percent drop in february ; and was largely due to a 5.6 percent increase in orders from abroad .
domestic orders also grew by just over one percent .
the month-on-month climb in march was stronger than expected and indicated that europe 's biggest economy may already be on the rebound from the worst effects of the global recession .
however , the european commission slashed its economic projections on monday , saying europe 's economy would shrink by four per cent this year .
that 's double the figure that it predicted at the start of the year . ch / pfd , rtr / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german business confidence falls ; economists say turnaround near business confidence in europe 's largest economy has reached an all time low , but according to some economists , things could level out and even rebound in the coming months .
-lrb- 26.03.2009 -rrb- europe to lose 3.5 million jobs in 2009 , study says a new study by the eu commission says that jobless rolls in the european union will swell by a further 3.5 million this year as the global economic slowdown batters labor markets across europe .
-lrb- 18.02.2009 -rrb- airbus warns of " horrible " year ahead european aircraft manufacturing giant airbus expects a dismal year with orders plummeting as the global economic crisis hits the aviation industry .
-lrb- 15.01.2009 -rrb- 9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
culture west german photographer thomas hoepker documented life abroad - in east germany - in the 1970s .
watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german industrial orders make surprise jump -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 17.10.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de business -pipe- 07.05.2009 german industrial orders make surprise jump großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : daimler truck factory in woerth - demand for german manufactured goods is up german industrial orders in march showed their first rise for six months , on the back of an increase in orders from abroad . preliminary government figures show that german industrial orders grew an unexpected 3.3 percent in march , driven by an increase in demand from abroad .
the rise - economists had expected a moderate fall for the world 's top exporter - is the first piece of hard data to back up the government 's prediction that the economy is set to grow slightly in 2010 .
the german economy is expected to experience negative growth of around six percent this year .
germany 's economics ministry said the seasonally adjusted rise did not even begin to make up for recent months , with orders for goods falling by 14.5 percent in the first quarter .
the ministry said , though , that the latest numbers showed the trend had changed .
the march increase compared with a 3.1 percent drop in february ; and was largely due to a 5.6 percent increase in orders from abroad .
domestic orders also grew by just over one percent .
the month-on-month climb in march was stronger than expected and indicated that europe 's biggest economy may already be on the rebound from the worst effects of the global recession .
however , the european commission slashed its economic projections on monday , saying europe 's economy would shrink by four per cent this year .
that 's double the figure that it predicted at the start of the year . ch / pfd , rtr / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german business confidence falls ; economists say turnaround near business confidence in europe 's largest economy has reached an all time low , but according to some economists , things could level out and even rebound in the coming months .
-lrb- 26.03.2009 -rrb- europe to lose 3.5 million jobs in 2009 , study says a new study by the eu commission says that jobless rolls in the european union will swell by a further 3.5 million this year as the global economic slowdown batters labor markets across europe .
-lrb- 18.02.2009 -rrb- airbus warns of " horrible " year ahead european aircraft manufacturing giant airbus expects a dismal year with orders plummeting as the global economic crisis hits the aviation industry .
-lrb- 15.01.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german industrial orders make surprise jump -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 22.12.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de business -pipe- 07.05.2009 german industrial orders make surprise jump großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : daimler truck factory in woerth - demand for german manufactured goods is up german industrial orders in march showed their first rise for six months , on the back of an increase in orders from abroad . preliminary government figures show that german industrial orders grew an unexpected 3.3 percent in march , driven by an increase in demand from abroad .
the rise - economists had expected a moderate fall for the world 's top exporter - is the first piece of hard data to back up the government 's prediction that the economy is set to grow slightly in 2010 .
the german economy is expected to experience negative growth of around six percent this year .
germany 's economics ministry said the seasonally adjusted rise did not even begin to make up for recent months , with orders for goods falling by 14.5 percent in the first quarter .
the ministry said , though , that the latest numbers showed the trend had changed .
the march increase compared with a 3.1 percent drop in february ; and was largely due to a 5.6 percent increase in orders from abroad .
domestic orders also grew by just over one percent .
the month-on-month climb in march was stronger than expected and indicated that europe 's biggest economy may already be on the rebound from the worst effects of the global recession .
however , the european commission slashed its economic projections on monday , saying europe 's economy would shrink by four per cent this year .
that 's double the figure that it predicted at the start of the year . ch / pfd , rtr / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german business confidence falls ; economists say turnaround near business confidence in europe 's largest economy has reached an all time low , but according to some economists , things could level out and even rebound in the coming months .
-lrb- 26.03.2009 -rrb- europe to lose 3.5 million jobs in 2009 , study says a new study by the eu commission says that jobless rolls in the european union will swell by a further 3.5 million this year as the global economic slowdown batters labor markets across europe .
-lrb- 18.02.2009 -rrb- airbus warns of " horrible " year ahead european aircraft manufacturing giant airbus expects a dismal year with orders plummeting as the global economic crisis hits the aviation industry .
-lrb- 15.01.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live arts on the air listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
travel passau is called the three river city , but it is just as famous for its baroque splendor .
passau - baroque facades and vibrant arts watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
suspected war criminal loses us court appeal to stop deportation -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 23.12.2010 home news germany europe world from tierra del fuego to tijuana asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de world war ii -pipe- 07.05.2009 suspected war criminal loses us court appeal to stop deportation großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : john demjanjuk appears to be losing legal battle against deportation to germany a us supreme court judge has said he will not block the alleged nazi death camp guard john demjanjuk 's deportation to germany to face a war crimes trial . the 89-year-old demjanjuk claims he is too ill to fly to germany .
he is accused of being a guard at the sobibor extermination camp during world war ii and of being an accessory to the murder of some 29,000 jews .
demjanjuk , who is ukrainian born , denies the charges , saying he was captured by the nazis and then kept as a prisoner of war .
german authorities allege that demjanjuk , then 23 , worked from march-september 1943 as a guard in nazi-occupied poland at the sobibor concentration camp .
prosecutors in munich issued an arrest warrant for him in march .
the us supreme court move was seen as one of the last ways to prevent his being taken to germany .
however , under court rules , his lawyers may still submit applications for a stay to the court 's other eight justices .
the lower court had dismissed arguments by demjanjuk 's lawyer that transporting him to germany would pose an undue risk to his health .
it accepted us government assurances that he would receive sufficient medical care during the trip .
the us justice department said it would continue to work with the german government on demjanjuk 's removal , but a spokeswoman could not provide details about the timing of a possible deportation .
a german tribunal earlier on thursday ruled that the german government is under no duty to oppose demjanjuk 's expulsion from us soil to germany .
following world war ii , demjanjuk lived in germany as a refugee until 1952 when he changed his first name from ivan to john and moved to the united states .
demjanjuk was acquitted in 1993 by the israeli supreme court of charges that he worked at a different death camp , treblinka , saving him from the death sentence of a lower court in israel .
but when he returned to the us , he was stripped of his us citizenship . nrt , mh dpa / reuters / ap send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
us-pakistan relations the new york times is reporting that the us is planning special operations in pakistan .
taliban expert ahmed rashid talks about the new york times report the road ahead the nato exit strategy aims to hand security to afghan forces , however that is a long way off .
watch the video focus wikileaks read our dw-world focus on the latest wikileaks revelations and their impact around the globe .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan new web site check out deutsche welle 's new asia page in english .
dw asia online latin america take a multimedia journey discover the region and its people news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's newest media partner © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
suspected war criminal loses us court appeal to stop deportation -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 26.01.2011 home news germany europe world from tierra del fuego to tijuana asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de world war ii -pipe- 07.05.2009 suspected war criminal loses us court appeal to stop deportation großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : john demjanjuk appears to be losing legal battle against deportation to germany a us supreme court judge has said he will not block the alleged nazi death camp guard john demjanjuk 's deportation to germany to face a war crimes trial . the 89-year-old demjanjuk claims he is too ill to fly to germany .
he is accused of being a guard at the sobibor extermination camp during world war ii and of being an accessory to the murder of some 29,000 jews .
demjanjuk , who is ukrainian born , denies the charges , saying he was captured by the nazis and then kept as a prisoner of war .
german authorities allege that demjanjuk , then 23 , worked from march-september 1943 as a guard in nazi-occupied poland at the sobibor concentration camp .
prosecutors in munich issued an arrest warrant for him in march .
the us supreme court move was seen as one of the last ways to prevent his being taken to germany .
however , under court rules , his lawyers may still submit applications for a stay to the court 's other eight justices .
the lower court had dismissed arguments by demjanjuk 's lawyer that transporting him to germany would pose an undue risk to his health .
it accepted us government assurances that he would receive sufficient medical care during the trip .
the us justice department said it would continue to work with the german government on demjanjuk 's removal , but a spokeswoman could not provide details about the timing of a possible deportation .
a german tribunal earlier on thursday ruled that the german government is under no duty to oppose demjanjuk 's expulsion from us soil to germany .
following world war ii , demjanjuk lived in germany as a refugee until 1952 when he changed his first name from ivan to john and moved to the united states .
demjanjuk was acquitted in 1993 by the israeli supreme court of charges that he worked at a different death camp , treblinka , saving him from the death sentence of a lower court in israel .
but when he returned to the us , he was stripped of his us citizenship . nrt , mh dpa / reuters / ap send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan latin america take a multimedia journey discover the region and its people news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's newest media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
suspected war criminal loses us court appeal to stop deportation -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 31.10.2010 home news germany europe world from tierra del fuego to tijuana asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de world war ii -pipe- 07.05.2009 suspected war criminal loses us court appeal to stop deportation großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : john demjanjuk appears to be losing legal battle against deportation to germany a us supreme court judge has said he will not block the alleged nazi death camp guard john demjanjuk 's deportation to germany to face a war crimes trial . the 89-year-old demjanjuk claims he is too ill to fly to germany .
he is accused of being a guard at the sobibor extermination camp during world war ii and of being an accessory to the murder of some 29,000 jews .
demjanjuk , who is ukrainian born , denies the charges , saying he was captured by the nazis and then kept as a prisoner of war .
german authorities allege that demjanjuk , then 23 , worked from march-september 1943 as a guard in nazi-occupied poland at the sobibor concentration camp .
prosecutors in munich issued an arrest warrant for him in march .
the us supreme court move was seen as one of the last ways to prevent his being taken to germany .
however , under court rules , his lawyers may still submit applications for a stay to the court 's other eight justices .
the lower court had dismissed arguments by demjanjuk 's lawyer that transporting him to germany would pose an undue risk to his health .
it accepted us government assurances that he would receive sufficient medical care during the trip .
the us justice department said it would continue to work with the german government on demjanjuk 's removal , but a spokeswoman could not provide details about the timing of a possible deportation .
a german tribunal earlier on thursday ruled that the german government is under no duty to oppose demjanjuk 's expulsion from us soil to germany .
following world war ii , demjanjuk lived in germany as a refugee until 1952 when he changed his first name from ivan to john and moved to the united states .
demjanjuk was acquitted in 1993 by the israeli supreme court of charges that he worked at a different death camp , treblinka , saving him from the death sentence of a lower court in israel .
but when he returned to the us , he was stripped of his us citizenship . nrt , mh dpa / reuters / ap send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live discover germany we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live music this week abba wowed audiences with their first concert 40 years ago listen live learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan new web site check out deutsche welle 's new asia page in english .
dw asia online news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's newest media partner latin america take a multimedia journey discover the region and its people © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
steinmeier urges israeli counterpart to accept two-state plan -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 16.09.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de israel -pipe- 07.05.2009 steinmeier urges israeli counterpart to accept two-state plan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lieberman has been making his first official visit to berlin while in berlin , israel 's foreign minister has left a cloud over the mideast peace process , calling it a waste of money . israeli foreign minister avigdor lieberman has left german parliamentarians pessimistic about the future of the middle east peace process .
in berlin , the last stop of his four-day european tour , the right-wing minister refused to commit to a two-state solution for israel and the palestinian territories .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lieberman -lrb- right -rrb- with ruprecht polenz , chairman of the foreign affairs committee during talks with members of the german parliamentary foreign affairs committee lieberman said the peace process had been little more than a waste of money .
he also brought up iran , saying the country was a major threat .
later in the day , lieberman paid his respects at berlin 's holocaust memorial , laying a wreath at the 19,000-square-meter monument in the center of berlin .
lieberman later held talks with german interior minister wolfgang schaeuble , followed by dinner with his german counterpart frank-walter steinmeier .
germany 's top diplomat urged the controversial israeli foreign minister to adopt a two-state plan as the basis for peace in the middle east and the " sole path to peace and security . "
steinmeier emphasized that the german government expected the new israeli administration under prime minister benjamin netanyahu would abide with previous peace commitments .
the german minister said it was important to stregthen moderate forces in the region and actively involve them in the peace process .
with regard to the situation in the gaza strip , steinmeier said it was imperative that palestinians had access to aid supplies .
the israeli foreign minister , who heads a nationalist party in prime minister benjamin netanyahu 's coalition , caused a stir on his first day in office , when he announced that israel was no longer bound by the so-called annapolis peace process , which formed the basis of the israeli-palestinian peace talks in 2008 .
lieberman 's european visit - which has included meetings in rome , paris and european union talks in prague - was mostly conducted out of the media eye .
in berlin , no joint press conference or photo call was scheduled for his meeting with steinmeier .
this echoed lieberman 's reception in france , where foreign minister bernard kouchner chose not to hold a joint press conference as had been customary when lieberman 's predecessor tzipi livni came to paris . ch / pfd / nrt , rtr / dpa / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de merkel says " no alternative " to two-state solution in middle east german chancellor angela merkel has said there is no alternative to a two-state solution to the mideast crisis following talks in berlin on wednesday with jordan 's king abdullah ii .
-lrb- 06.05.2009 -rrb- netanyahu demands that palestinians recognize israel as jewish state israeli prime minister benjamin netanyahu has demanded palestinians recognize israel as a jewish state .
the call was made during his meeting with the visiting us special envoy to the middle east , george mitchell .
-lrb- 16.04.2009 -rrb- opinion : labour decision to join likud harms hopes for peace israeli labour party head ehud barack 's decision to take part in a government led by hardliner benjamin netanyahu is a disservice to the labour party and , more importantly , to hopes for peace , writes dw 's peter philipp .
-lrb- 25.03.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live world in progress development in a globalized world listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
suspected war criminal loses us court appeal to stop deportation -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de world war ii -pipe- 07.05.2009 suspected war criminal loses us court appeal to stop deportation großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : john demjanjuk appears to be losing legal battle against deportation to germany a us supreme court judge has said he will not block the alleged nazi death camp guard john demjanjuk 's deportation to germany to face a war crimes trial . the 89-year-old demjanjuk claims he is too ill to fly to germany .
he is accused of being a guard at the sobibor extermination camp during world war ii and of being an accessory to the murder of some 29,000 jews .
demjanjuk , who is ukrainian born , denies the charges , saying he was captured by the nazis and then kept as a prisoner of war .
german authorities allege that demjanjuk , then 23 , worked from march-september 1943 as a guard in nazi-occupied poland at the sobibor concentration camp .
prosecutors in munich issued an arrest warrant for him in march .
the us supreme court move was seen as one of the last ways to prevent his being taken to germany .
however , under court rules , his lawyers may still submit applications for a stay to the court 's other eight justices .
the lower court had dismissed arguments by demjanjuk 's lawyer that transporting him to germany would pose an undue risk to his health .
it accepted us government assurances that he would receive sufficient medical care during the trip .
the us justice department said it would continue to work with the german government on demjanjuk 's removal , but a spokeswoman could not provide details about the timing of a possible deportation .
a german tribunal earlier on thursday ruled that the german government is under no duty to oppose demjanjuk 's expulsion from us soil to germany .
following world war ii , demjanjuk lived in germany as a refugee until 1952 when he changed his first name from ivan to john and moved to the united states .
demjanjuk was acquitted in 1993 by the israeli supreme court of charges that he worked at a different death camp , treblinka , saving him from the death sentence of a lower court in israel .
but when he returned to the us , he was stripped of his us citizenship . nrt , mh dpa / reuters / ap send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ? 9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
cairo crisis egypt 's military council has warned protesters it will move in to break up the demonstrations .
watch the video in depth focus on libya dw-world looks at the turmoil in libya : what it means for tripoli and the rest of the world .
international conference media representatives around the world gather in bonn to discuss human rights .
podcast series by teaching stand-up comedy , bryan encourages his students to discover their talents .
download the report subscribe to the series on itunes past episodes learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german industrial orders make surprise jump -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de business -pipe- 07.05.2009 german industrial orders make surprise jump großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : daimler truck factory in woerth - demand for german manufactured goods is up german industrial orders in march showed their first rise for six months , on the back of an increase in orders from abroad . preliminary government figures show that german industrial orders grew an unexpected 3.3 percent in march , driven by an increase in demand from abroad .
the rise - economists had expected a moderate fall for the world 's top exporter - is the first piece of hard data to back up the government 's prediction that the economy is set to grow slightly in 2010 .
the german economy is expected to experience negative growth of around six percent this year .
germany 's economics ministry said the seasonally adjusted rise did not even begin to make up for recent months , with orders for goods falling by 14.5 percent in the first quarter .
the ministry said , though , that the latest numbers showed the trend had changed .
the march increase compared with a 3.1 percent drop in february ; and was largely due to a 5.6 percent increase in orders from abroad .
domestic orders also grew by just over one percent .
the month-on-month climb in march was stronger than expected and indicated that europe 's biggest economy may already be on the rebound from the worst effects of the global recession .
however , the european commission slashed its economic projections on monday , saying europe 's economy would shrink by four per cent this year .
that 's double the figure that it predicted at the start of the year . ch / pfd , rtr / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german business confidence falls ; economists say turnaround near business confidence in europe 's largest economy has reached an all time low , but according to some economists , things could level out and even rebound in the coming months .
-lrb- 26.03.2009 -rrb- europe to lose 3.5 million jobs in 2009 , study says a new study by the eu commission says that jobless rolls in the european union will swell by a further 3.5 million this year as the global economic slowdown batters labor markets across europe .
-lrb- 18.02.2009 -rrb- airbus warns of " horrible " year ahead european aircraft manufacturing giant airbus expects a dismal year with orders plummeting as the global economic crisis hits the aviation industry .
-lrb- 15.01.2009 -rrb- 9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit tagesthema we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
digital street art artists in berlin reinvent graffiti by projecting light onto buildings using computer systems .
watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german industrial orders make surprise jump -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 20.11.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de business -pipe- 07.05.2009 german industrial orders make surprise jump großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : daimler truck factory in woerth - demand for german manufactured goods is up german industrial orders in march showed their first rise for six months , on the back of an increase in orders from abroad . preliminary government figures show that german industrial orders grew an unexpected 3.3 percent in march , driven by an increase in demand from abroad .
the rise - economists had expected a moderate fall for the world 's top exporter - is the first piece of hard data to back up the government 's prediction that the economy is set to grow slightly in 2010 .
the german economy is expected to experience negative growth of around six percent this year .
germany 's economics ministry said the seasonally adjusted rise did not even begin to make up for recent months , with orders for goods falling by 14.5 percent in the first quarter .
the ministry said , though , that the latest numbers showed the trend had changed .
the march increase compared with a 3.1 percent drop in february ; and was largely due to a 5.6 percent increase in orders from abroad .
domestic orders also grew by just over one percent .
the month-on-month climb in march was stronger than expected and indicated that europe 's biggest economy may already be on the rebound from the worst effects of the global recession .
however , the european commission slashed its economic projections on monday , saying europe 's economy would shrink by four per cent this year .
that 's double the figure that it predicted at the start of the year . ch / pfd , rtr / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german business confidence falls ; economists say turnaround near business confidence in europe 's largest economy has reached an all time low , but according to some economists , things could level out and even rebound in the coming months .
-lrb- 26.03.2009 -rrb- europe to lose 3.5 million jobs in 2009 , study says a new study by the eu commission says that jobless rolls in the european union will swell by a further 3.5 million this year as the global economic slowdown batters labor markets across europe .
-lrb- 18.02.2009 -rrb- airbus warns of " horrible " year ahead european aircraft manufacturing giant airbus expects a dismal year with orders plummeting as the global economic crisis hits the aviation industry .
-lrb- 15.01.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live popxport we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
steinmeier urges israeli counterpart to accept two-state plan -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.10.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de israel -pipe- 07.05.2009 steinmeier urges israeli counterpart to accept two-state plan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lieberman has been making his first official visit to berlin while in berlin , israel 's foreign minister has left a cloud over the mideast peace process , calling it a waste of money . israeli foreign minister avigdor lieberman has left german parliamentarians pessimistic about the future of the middle east peace process .
in berlin , the last stop of his four-day european tour , the right-wing minister refused to commit to a two-state solution for israel and the palestinian territories .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lieberman -lrb- right -rrb- with ruprecht polenz , chairman of the foreign affairs committee during talks with members of the german parliamentary foreign affairs committee lieberman said the peace process had been little more than a waste of money .
he also brought up iran , saying the country was a major threat .
later in the day , lieberman paid his respects at berlin 's holocaust memorial , laying a wreath at the 19,000-square-meter monument in the center of berlin .
lieberman later held talks with german interior minister wolfgang schaeuble , followed by dinner with his german counterpart frank-walter steinmeier .
germany 's top diplomat urged the controversial israeli foreign minister to adopt a two-state plan as the basis for peace in the middle east and the " sole path to peace and security . "
steinmeier emphasized that the german government expected the new israeli administration under prime minister benjamin netanyahu would abide with previous peace commitments .
the german minister said it was important to stregthen moderate forces in the region and actively involve them in the peace process .
with regard to the situation in the gaza strip , steinmeier said it was imperative that palestinians had access to aid supplies .
the israeli foreign minister , who heads a nationalist party in prime minister benjamin netanyahu 's coalition , caused a stir on his first day in office , when he announced that israel was no longer bound by the so-called annapolis peace process , which formed the basis of the israeli-palestinian peace talks in 2008 .
lieberman 's european visit - which has included meetings in rome , paris and european union talks in prague - was mostly conducted out of the media eye .
in berlin , no joint press conference or photo call was scheduled for his meeting with steinmeier .
this echoed lieberman 's reception in france , where foreign minister bernard kouchner chose not to hold a joint press conference as had been customary when lieberman 's predecessor tzipi livni came to paris . ch / pfd / nrt , rtr / dpa / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de merkel says " no alternative " to two-state solution in middle east german chancellor angela merkel has said there is no alternative to a two-state solution to the mideast crisis following talks in berlin on wednesday with jordan 's king abdullah ii .
-lrb- 06.05.2009 -rrb- netanyahu demands that palestinians recognize israel as jewish state israeli prime minister benjamin netanyahu has demanded palestinians recognize israel as a jewish state .
the call was made during his meeting with the visiting us special envoy to the middle east , george mitchell .
-lrb- 16.04.2009 -rrb- opinion : labour decision to join likud harms hopes for peace israeli labour party head ehud barack 's decision to take part in a government led by hardliner benjamin netanyahu is a disservice to the labour party and , more importantly , to hopes for peace , writes dw 's peter philipp .
-lrb- 25.03.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
steinmeier urges israeli counterpart to accept two-state plan -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 24.12.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de israel -pipe- 07.05.2009 steinmeier urges israeli counterpart to accept two-state plan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lieberman has been making his first official visit to berlin while in berlin , israel 's foreign minister has left a cloud over the mideast peace process , calling it a waste of money . israeli foreign minister avigdor lieberman has left german parliamentarians pessimistic about the future of the middle east peace process .
in berlin , the last stop of his four-day european tour , the right-wing minister refused to commit to a two-state solution for israel and the palestinian territories .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lieberman -lrb- right -rrb- with ruprecht polenz , chairman of the foreign affairs committee during talks with members of the german parliamentary foreign affairs committee lieberman said the peace process had been little more than a waste of money .
he also brought up iran , saying the country was a major threat .
later in the day , lieberman paid his respects at berlin 's holocaust memorial , laying a wreath at the 19,000-square-meter monument in the center of berlin .
lieberman later held talks with german interior minister wolfgang schaeuble , followed by dinner with his german counterpart frank-walter steinmeier .
germany 's top diplomat urged the controversial israeli foreign minister to adopt a two-state plan as the basis for peace in the middle east and the " sole path to peace and security . "
steinmeier emphasized that the german government expected the new israeli administration under prime minister benjamin netanyahu would abide with previous peace commitments .
the german minister said it was important to stregthen moderate forces in the region and actively involve them in the peace process .
with regard to the situation in the gaza strip , steinmeier said it was imperative that palestinians had access to aid supplies .
the israeli foreign minister , who heads a nationalist party in prime minister benjamin netanyahu 's coalition , caused a stir on his first day in office , when he announced that israel was no longer bound by the so-called annapolis peace process , which formed the basis of the israeli-palestinian peace talks in 2008 .
lieberman 's european visit - which has included meetings in rome , paris and european union talks in prague - was mostly conducted out of the media eye .
in berlin , no joint press conference or photo call was scheduled for his meeting with steinmeier .
this echoed lieberman 's reception in france , where foreign minister bernard kouchner chose not to hold a joint press conference as had been customary when lieberman 's predecessor tzipi livni came to paris . ch / pfd / nrt , rtr / dpa / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de merkel says " no alternative " to two-state solution in middle east german chancellor angela merkel has said there is no alternative to a two-state solution to the mideast crisis following talks in berlin on wednesday with jordan 's king abdullah ii .
-lrb- 06.05.2009 -rrb- netanyahu demands that palestinians recognize israel as jewish state israeli prime minister benjamin netanyahu has demanded palestinians recognize israel as a jewish state .
the call was made during his meeting with the visiting us special envoy to the middle east , george mitchell .
-lrb- 16.04.2009 -rrb- opinion : labour decision to join likud harms hopes for peace israeli labour party head ehud barack 's decision to take part in a government led by hardliner benjamin netanyahu is a disservice to the labour party and , more importantly , to hopes for peace , writes dw 's peter philipp .
-lrb- 25.03.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
travel passau is called the three river city , but it is just as famous for its baroque splendor .
passau - baroque facades and vibrant arts watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
steinmeier urges israeli counterpart to accept two-state plan -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 21.11.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de israel -pipe- 07.05.2009 steinmeier urges israeli counterpart to accept two-state plan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lieberman has been making his first official visit to berlin while in berlin , israel 's foreign minister has left a cloud over the mideast peace process , calling it a waste of money . israeli foreign minister avigdor lieberman has left german parliamentarians pessimistic about the future of the middle east peace process .
in berlin , the last stop of his four-day european tour , the right-wing minister refused to commit to a two-state solution for israel and the palestinian territories .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lieberman -lrb- right -rrb- with ruprecht polenz , chairman of the foreign affairs committee during talks with members of the german parliamentary foreign affairs committee lieberman said the peace process had been little more than a waste of money .
he also brought up iran , saying the country was a major threat .
later in the day , lieberman paid his respects at berlin 's holocaust memorial , laying a wreath at the 19,000-square-meter monument in the center of berlin .
lieberman later held talks with german interior minister wolfgang schaeuble , followed by dinner with his german counterpart frank-walter steinmeier .
germany 's top diplomat urged the controversial israeli foreign minister to adopt a two-state plan as the basis for peace in the middle east and the " sole path to peace and security . "
steinmeier emphasized that the german government expected the new israeli administration under prime minister benjamin netanyahu would abide with previous peace commitments .
the german minister said it was important to stregthen moderate forces in the region and actively involve them in the peace process .
with regard to the situation in the gaza strip , steinmeier said it was imperative that palestinians had access to aid supplies .
the israeli foreign minister , who heads a nationalist party in prime minister benjamin netanyahu 's coalition , caused a stir on his first day in office , when he announced that israel was no longer bound by the so-called annapolis peace process , which formed the basis of the israeli-palestinian peace talks in 2008 .
lieberman 's european visit - which has included meetings in rome , paris and european union talks in prague - was mostly conducted out of the media eye .
in berlin , no joint press conference or photo call was scheduled for his meeting with steinmeier .
this echoed lieberman 's reception in france , where foreign minister bernard kouchner chose not to hold a joint press conference as had been customary when lieberman 's predecessor tzipi livni came to paris . ch / pfd / nrt , rtr / dpa / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de merkel says " no alternative " to two-state solution in middle east german chancellor angela merkel has said there is no alternative to a two-state solution to the mideast crisis following talks in berlin on wednesday with jordan 's king abdullah ii .
-lrb- 06.05.2009 -rrb- netanyahu demands that palestinians recognize israel as jewish state israeli prime minister benjamin netanyahu has demanded palestinians recognize israel as a jewish state .
the call was made during his meeting with the visiting us special envoy to the middle east , george mitchell .
-lrb- 16.04.2009 -rrb- opinion : labour decision to join likud harms hopes for peace israeli labour party head ehud barack 's decision to take part in a government led by hardliner benjamin netanyahu is a disservice to the labour party and , more importantly , to hopes for peace , writes dw 's peter philipp .
-lrb- 25.03.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live sports report listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
steinmeier urges israeli counterpart to accept two-state plan -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 21.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de israel -pipe- 07.05.2009 steinmeier urges israeli counterpart to accept two-state plan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lieberman has been making his first official visit to berlin while in berlin , israel 's foreign minister has left a cloud over the mideast peace process , calling it a waste of money . israeli foreign minister avigdor lieberman has left german parliamentarians pessimistic about the future of the middle east peace process .
in berlin , the last stop of his four-day european tour , the right-wing minister refused to commit to a two-state solution for israel and the palestinian territories .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lieberman -lrb- right -rrb- with ruprecht polenz , chairman of the foreign affairs committee during talks with members of the german parliamentary foreign affairs committee lieberman said the peace process had been little more than a waste of money .
he also brought up iran , saying the country was a major threat .
later in the day , lieberman paid his respects at berlin 's holocaust memorial , laying a wreath at the 19,000-square-meter monument in the center of berlin .
lieberman later held talks with german interior minister wolfgang schaeuble , followed by dinner with his german counterpart frank-walter steinmeier .
germany 's top diplomat urged the controversial israeli foreign minister to adopt a two-state plan as the basis for peace in the middle east and the " sole path to peace and security . "
steinmeier emphasized that the german government expected the new israeli administration under prime minister benjamin netanyahu would abide with previous peace commitments .
the german minister said it was important to stregthen moderate forces in the region and actively involve them in the peace process .
with regard to the situation in the gaza strip , steinmeier said it was imperative that palestinians had access to aid supplies .
the israeli foreign minister , who heads a nationalist party in prime minister benjamin netanyahu 's coalition , caused a stir on his first day in office , when he announced that israel was no longer bound by the so-called annapolis peace process , which formed the basis of the israeli-palestinian peace talks in 2008 .
lieberman 's european visit - which has included meetings in rome , paris and european union talks in prague - was mostly conducted out of the media eye .
in berlin , no joint press conference or photo call was scheduled for his meeting with steinmeier .
this echoed lieberman 's reception in france , where foreign minister bernard kouchner chose not to hold a joint press conference as had been customary when lieberman 's predecessor tzipi livni came to paris . ch / pfd / nrt , rtr / dpa / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de merkel says " no alternative " to two-state solution in middle east german chancellor angela merkel has said there is no alternative to a two-state solution to the mideast crisis following talks in berlin on wednesday with jordan 's king abdullah ii .
-lrb- 06.05.2009 -rrb- netanyahu demands that palestinians recognize israel as jewish state israeli prime minister benjamin netanyahu has demanded palestinians recognize israel as a jewish state .
the call was made during his meeting with the visiting us special envoy to the middle east , george mitchell .
-lrb- 16.04.2009 -rrb- opinion : labour decision to join likud harms hopes for peace israeli labour party head ehud barack 's decision to take part in a government led by hardliner benjamin netanyahu is a disservice to the labour party and , more importantly , to hopes for peace , writes dw 's peter philipp .
-lrb- 25.03.2009 -rrb- 9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live politik direkt we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
culture west german photographer thomas hoepker documented life abroad - in east germany - in the 1970s .
watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
steinmeier urges israeli counterpart to accept two-state plan -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.01.2011 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de israel -pipe- 07.05.2009 steinmeier urges israeli counterpart to accept two-state plan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lieberman has been making his first official visit to berlin while in berlin , israel 's foreign minister has left a cloud over the mideast peace process , calling it a waste of money . israeli foreign minister avigdor lieberman has left german parliamentarians pessimistic about the future of the middle east peace process .
in berlin , the last stop of his four-day european tour , the right-wing minister refused to commit to a two-state solution for israel and the palestinian territories .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lieberman -lrb- right -rrb- with ruprecht polenz , chairman of the foreign affairs committee during talks with members of the german parliamentary foreign affairs committee lieberman said the peace process had been little more than a waste of money .
he also brought up iran , saying the country was a major threat .
later in the day , lieberman paid his respects at berlin 's holocaust memorial , laying a wreath at the 19,000-square-meter monument in the center of berlin .
lieberman later held talks with german interior minister wolfgang schaeuble , followed by dinner with his german counterpart frank-walter steinmeier .
germany 's top diplomat urged the controversial israeli foreign minister to adopt a two-state plan as the basis for peace in the middle east and the " sole path to peace and security . "
steinmeier emphasized that the german government expected the new israeli administration under prime minister benjamin netanyahu would abide with previous peace commitments .
the german minister said it was important to stregthen moderate forces in the region and actively involve them in the peace process .
with regard to the situation in the gaza strip , steinmeier said it was imperative that palestinians had access to aid supplies .
the israeli foreign minister , who heads a nationalist party in prime minister benjamin netanyahu 's coalition , caused a stir on his first day in office , when he announced that israel was no longer bound by the so-called annapolis peace process , which formed the basis of the israeli-palestinian peace talks in 2008 .
lieberman 's european visit - which has included meetings in rome , paris and european union talks in prague - was mostly conducted out of the media eye .
in berlin , no joint press conference or photo call was scheduled for his meeting with steinmeier .
this echoed lieberman 's reception in france , where foreign minister bernard kouchner chose not to hold a joint press conference as had been customary when lieberman 's predecessor tzipi livni came to paris . ch / pfd / nrt , rtr / dpa / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de merkel says " no alternative " to two-state solution in middle east german chancellor angela merkel has said there is no alternative to a two-state solution to the mideast crisis following talks in berlin on wednesday with jordan 's king abdullah ii .
-lrb- 06.05.2009 -rrb- netanyahu demands that palestinians recognize israel as jewish state israeli prime minister benjamin netanyahu has demanded palestinians recognize israel as a jewish state .
the call was made during his meeting with the visiting us special envoy to the middle east , george mitchell .
-lrb- 16.04.2009 -rrb- opinion : labour decision to join likud harms hopes for peace israeli labour party head ehud barack 's decision to take part in a government led by hardliner benjamin netanyahu is a disservice to the labour party and , more importantly , to hopes for peace , writes dw 's peter philipp .
-lrb- 25.03.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
obama wins pledge from afghan , pakistani leaders to confront militants -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 26.03.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de diplomacy -pipe- 07.05.2009 obama wins pledge from afghan , pakistani leaders to confront militants großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : obama warned of more violence in pakistan and afghanistan at the three-way summit president barack obama won a fresh promise from the leaders of pakistan and afghanistan on wednesday to work together to defeat al qaeda , and vowed he would make " every effort " to avoid civilian deaths . afghanistan 's hamid karzai and pakistan 's asif ali zardari came to washington after heavy criticism of their efforts to combat a taliban resurgence in their countries .
after their talks obama said both men " fully appreciate the seriousness of the threat " posed by al qaeda and their allies .
" the road ahead will be difficult .
there will be more violence and there will be setbacks , " obama said , with karzai and zardari at his side in the grand foyer of the white house .
" but let me be clear - the united states has not only made a lasting commitment to defeat al qaeda but also to support the democratically elected sovereign governments of both pakistan and afghanistan .
that commitment will not waiver and that support will be sustained . "
the obama administration has sharply criticized both karzai and zardari in the past , questioning their commitment and capability to tackle the threat from al qaeda and the taliban .
civilian casualties caused by us military operations in both countries , including drone strikes inside pakistan , have infuriated many afghans and pakistanis and made it harder for both countries ' leaders to cooperate with the united states .
military action earlier this week is believed to have caused dozens of civilian deaths with regional lawmakers and the international committee of the red cross reporting that as many as 100 people may have died in an operation in the bala boluk district of farah province in western afghanistan .
" we deeply , deeply regret that loss , " us secretary of state hillary clinton said of the civilian deaths before meeting karzai and zardari .
later she called that meeting " in some ways a breakthrough " and said she was " very optimistic " the process was making a difference .
obama announced a new approach to the fight against al qaeda in both countries in late march , offering more aid but also more than 20,000 extra troops to afghanistan this year .
pakistan 's zardari , who has been under fierce criticism for his response to taliban militants who have made inroads in the swat and buner valleys this year , pleaded for support for his fledgling democracy .
" my democracy needs attention and needs nurturing , " zardari said .
" pakistani democracy will deliver , the terrorists will be defeated by our joint struggle .
me , my friend president karzai and the united states ... will stand shoulder to shoulder with the world to fight this cancer and this threat . "
the pakistan government recently launched a major military offensive following pressure from the us to stop the advance of extremists in the region .
the islamist taliban says the offensive violates a peace deal it made with islamabad , which allowed the introduction of shariah law in the swat valley in exchange for a ceasefire .
on wednesday , pakistani security forces attacked taliban fighters in the swat valley , killing at least 64 of them after the united states called on the government to show its commitment to fighting militancy .
but the growing taliban influence in north-western pakistan has raised international concerns over the stability of the nuclear-armed country .
meanwhile in berlin , pakistani defence minister chaudry ahmad mukhtar has met with his german counterpart franz josef jung and asked for international help .
mukhtar said pakistan did not have the capacity to fight what he described as a " guerrilla war " in the north-west of the country . nrt , nk dpa / reuters / ap send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de obama to up pressure on , offer incentives to pakistan and afghanistan money for security - that 's the deal that us president barack obama is to offer his pakistani and afghan counterparts on wednesday .
a former german ambassador to pakistan talks us through a potentially historic meeting .
-lrb- 05.05.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic pakistani defence minister visits germany us president barack obama unveils a new afghan war strategy feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
transatlantic voices expert opinion no international cooperation has been declared dead or dying as often as the european union .
international conference media representatives around the world gather in bonn to discuss human rights .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
obama wins pledge from afghan , pakistani leaders to confront militants -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 29.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de diplomacy -pipe- 07.05.2009 obama wins pledge from afghan , pakistani leaders to confront militants großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : obama warned of more violence in pakistan and afghanistan at the three-way summit president barack obama won a fresh promise from the leaders of pakistan and afghanistan on wednesday to work together to defeat al qaeda , and vowed he would make " every effort " to avoid civilian deaths . afghanistan 's hamid karzai and pakistan 's asif ali zardari came to washington after heavy criticism of their efforts to combat a taliban resurgence in their countries .
after their talks obama said both men " fully appreciate the seriousness of the threat " posed by al qaeda and their allies .
" the road ahead will be difficult .
there will be more violence and there will be setbacks , " obama said , with karzai and zardari at his side in the grand foyer of the white house .
" but let me be clear - the united states has not only made a lasting commitment to defeat al qaeda but also to support the democratically elected sovereign governments of both pakistan and afghanistan .
that commitment will not waiver and that support will be sustained . "
the obama administration has sharply criticized both karzai and zardari in the past , questioning their commitment and capability to tackle the threat from al qaeda and the taliban .
civilian casualties caused by us military operations in both countries , including drone strikes inside pakistan , have infuriated many afghans and pakistanis and made it harder for both countries ' leaders to cooperate with the united states .
military action earlier this week is believed to have caused dozens of civilian deaths with regional lawmakers and the international committee of the red cross reporting that as many as 100 people may have died in an operation in the bala boluk district of farah province in western afghanistan .
" we deeply , deeply regret that loss , " us secretary of state hillary clinton said of the civilian deaths before meeting karzai and zardari .
later she called that meeting " in some ways a breakthrough " and said she was " very optimistic " the process was making a difference .
obama announced a new approach to the fight against al qaeda in both countries in late march , offering more aid but also more than 20,000 extra troops to afghanistan this year .
pakistan 's zardari , who has been under fierce criticism for his response to taliban militants who have made inroads in the swat and buner valleys this year , pleaded for support for his fledgling democracy .
" my democracy needs attention and needs nurturing , " zardari said .
" pakistani democracy will deliver , the terrorists will be defeated by our joint struggle .
me , my friend president karzai and the united states ... will stand shoulder to shoulder with the world to fight this cancer and this threat . "
the pakistan government recently launched a major military offensive following pressure from the us to stop the advance of extremists in the region .
the islamist taliban says the offensive violates a peace deal it made with islamabad , which allowed the introduction of shariah law in the swat valley in exchange for a ceasefire .
on wednesday , pakistani security forces attacked taliban fighters in the swat valley , killing at least 64 of them after the united states called on the government to show its commitment to fighting militancy .
but the growing taliban influence in north-western pakistan has raised international concerns over the stability of the nuclear-armed country .
meanwhile in berlin , pakistani defence minister chaudry ahmad mukhtar has met with his german counterpart franz josef jung and asked for international help .
mukhtar said pakistan did not have the capacity to fight what he described as a " guerrilla war " in the north-west of the country . nrt , nk dpa / reuters / ap send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de obama to up pressure on , offer incentives to pakistan and afghanistan money for security - that 's the deal that us president barack obama is to offer his pakistani and afghan counterparts on wednesday .
a former german ambassador to pakistan talks us through a potentially historic meeting .
-lrb- 05.05.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic pakistani defence minister visits germany us president barack obama unveils a new afghan war strategy feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
focus on syria rattling a regime in-depth coverage of the violent protests against the syrian government .
focus on libya libya 's uprising dw-world looks at the turmoil in libya : what it means for tripoli and the rest of the world .
podcast series a london teen helps integrate autistic adults into society .
download the report subscribe to the series on itunes past episodes international conference media representatives around the world gather in bonn to discuss human rights .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
obama wins pledge from afghan , pakistani leaders to confront militants -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 02.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de diplomacy -pipe- 07.05.2009 obama wins pledge from afghan , pakistani leaders to confront militants großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : obama warned of more violence in pakistan and afghanistan at the three-way summit president barack obama won a fresh promise from the leaders of pakistan and afghanistan on wednesday to work together to defeat al qaeda , and vowed he would make " every effort " to avoid civilian deaths . afghanistan 's hamid karzai and pakistan 's asif ali zardari came to washington after heavy criticism of their efforts to combat a taliban resurgence in their countries .
after their talks obama said both men " fully appreciate the seriousness of the threat " posed by al qaeda and their allies .
" the road ahead will be difficult .
there will be more violence and there will be setbacks , " obama said , with karzai and zardari at his side in the grand foyer of the white house .
" but let me be clear - the united states has not only made a lasting commitment to defeat al qaeda but also to support the democratically elected sovereign governments of both pakistan and afghanistan .
that commitment will not waiver and that support will be sustained . "
the obama administration has sharply criticized both karzai and zardari in the past , questioning their commitment and capability to tackle the threat from al qaeda and the taliban .
civilian casualties caused by us military operations in both countries , including drone strikes inside pakistan , have infuriated many afghans and pakistanis and made it harder for both countries ' leaders to cooperate with the united states .
military action earlier this week is believed to have caused dozens of civilian deaths with regional lawmakers and the international committee of the red cross reporting that as many as 100 people may have died in an operation in the bala boluk district of farah province in western afghanistan .
" we deeply , deeply regret that loss , " us secretary of state hillary clinton said of the civilian deaths before meeting karzai and zardari .
later she called that meeting " in some ways a breakthrough " and said she was " very optimistic " the process was making a difference .
obama announced a new approach to the fight against al qaeda in both countries in late march , offering more aid but also more than 20,000 extra troops to afghanistan this year .
pakistan 's zardari , who has been under fierce criticism for his response to taliban militants who have made inroads in the swat and buner valleys this year , pleaded for support for his fledgling democracy .
" my democracy needs attention and needs nurturing , " zardari said .
" pakistani democracy will deliver , the terrorists will be defeated by our joint struggle .
me , my friend president karzai and the united states ... will stand shoulder to shoulder with the world to fight this cancer and this threat . "
the pakistan government recently launched a major military offensive following pressure from the us to stop the advance of extremists in the region .
the islamist taliban says the offensive violates a peace deal it made with islamabad , which allowed the introduction of shariah law in the swat valley in exchange for a ceasefire .
on wednesday , pakistani security forces attacked taliban fighters in the swat valley , killing at least 64 of them after the united states called on the government to show its commitment to fighting militancy .
but the growing taliban influence in north-western pakistan has raised international concerns over the stability of the nuclear-armed country .
meanwhile in berlin , pakistani defence minister chaudry ahmad mukhtar has met with his german counterpart franz josef jung and asked for international help .
mukhtar said pakistan did not have the capacity to fight what he described as a " guerrilla war " in the north-west of the country . nrt , nk dpa / reuters / ap send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de obama to up pressure on , offer incentives to pakistan and afghanistan money for security - that 's the deal that us president barack obama is to offer his pakistani and afghan counterparts on wednesday .
a former german ambassador to pakistan talks us through a potentially historic meeting .
-lrb- 05.05.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic pakistani defence minister visits germany us president barack obama unveils a new afghan war strategy 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
in depth al qaeda 's future deutsche welle takes a closer look at osama bin laden and the terrorist network he spearheaded .
podcast series kades , from one of nairobi 's largest slums , plays djb in shujaaz , a weekly radio show .
download the podcast international conference media representatives around the world gather in bonn to discuss human rights .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
obama wins pledge from afghan , pakistani leaders to confront militants -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 21.09.2010 home news germany europe world from tierra del fuego to tijuana asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de diplomacy -pipe- 07.05.2009 obama wins pledge from afghan , pakistani leaders to confront militants großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : obama warned of more violence in pakistan and afghanistan at the three-way summit president barack obama won a fresh promise from the leaders of pakistan and afghanistan on wednesday to work together to defeat al qaeda , and vowed he would make " every effort " to avoid civilian deaths . afghanistan 's hamid karzai and pakistan 's asif ali zardari came to washington after heavy criticism of their efforts to combat a taliban resurgence in their countries .
after their talks obama said both men " fully appreciate the seriousness of the threat " posed by al qaeda and their allies .
" the road ahead will be difficult .
there will be more violence and there will be setbacks , " obama said , with karzai and zardari at his side in the grand foyer of the white house .
" but let me be clear - the united states has not only made a lasting commitment to defeat al qaeda but also to support the democratically elected sovereign governments of both pakistan and afghanistan .
that commitment will not waiver and that support will be sustained . "
the obama administration has sharply criticized both karzai and zardari in the past , questioning their commitment and capability to tackle the threat from al qaeda and the taliban .
civilian casualties caused by us military operations in both countries , including drone strikes inside pakistan , have infuriated many afghans and pakistanis and made it harder for both countries ' leaders to cooperate with the united states .
military action earlier this week is believed to have caused dozens of civilian deaths with regional lawmakers and the international committee of the red cross reporting that as many as 100 people may have died in an operation in the bala boluk district of farah province in western afghanistan .
" we deeply , deeply regret that loss , " us secretary of state hillary clinton said of the civilian deaths before meeting karzai and zardari .
later she called that meeting " in some ways a breakthrough " and said she was " very optimistic " the process was making a difference .
obama announced a new approach to the fight against al qaeda in both countries in late march , offering more aid but also more than 20,000 extra troops to afghanistan this year .
pakistan 's zardari , who has been under fierce criticism for his response to taliban militants who have made inroads in the swat and buner valleys this year , pleaded for support for his fledgling democracy .
" my democracy needs attention and needs nurturing , " zardari said .
" pakistani democracy will deliver , the terrorists will be defeated by our joint struggle .
me , my friend president karzai and the united states ... will stand shoulder to shoulder with the world to fight this cancer and this threat . "
the pakistan government recently launched a major military offensive following pressure from the us to stop the advance of extremists in the region .
the islamist taliban says the offensive violates a peace deal it made with islamabad , which allowed the introduction of shariah law in the swat valley in exchange for a ceasefire .
on wednesday , pakistani security forces attacked taliban fighters in the swat valley , killing at least 64 of them after the united states called on the government to show its commitment to fighting militancy .
but the growing taliban influence in north-western pakistan has raised international concerns over the stability of the nuclear-armed country .
meanwhile in berlin , pakistani defence minister chaudry ahmad mukhtar has met with his german counterpart franz josef jung and asked for international help .
mukhtar said pakistan did not have the capacity to fight what he described as a " guerrilla war " in the north-west of the country . nrt , nk dpa / reuters / ap send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de obama to up pressure on , offer incentives to pakistan and afghanistan money for security - that 's the deal that us president barack obama is to offer his pakistani and afghan counterparts on wednesday .
a former german ambassador to pakistan talks us through a potentially historic meeting .
-lrb- 05.05.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic pakistani defence minister visits germany us president barack obama unveils a new afghan war strategy feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live kick off !
we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live pulse listen live diplomatic row dw 's china correspondent on rising sino-japanese tensions following arrest of chinese trawlerman .
listen to the interview learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan new web site check out deutsche welle 's new asia page in english .
dw asia online news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's newest media partner latin america take a multimedia journey discover the region and its people © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
obama wins pledge from afghan , pakistani leaders to confront militants -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 07.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de diplomacy -pipe- 07.05.2009 obama wins pledge from afghan , pakistani leaders to confront militants großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : obama warned of more violence in pakistan and afghanistan at the three-way summit president barack obama won a fresh promise from the leaders of pakistan and afghanistan on wednesday to work together to defeat al qaeda , and vowed he would make " every effort " to avoid civilian deaths . afghanistan 's hamid karzai and pakistan 's asif ali zardari came to washington after heavy criticism of their efforts to combat a taliban resurgence in their countries .
after their talks obama said both men " fully appreciate the seriousness of the threat " posed by al qaeda and their allies .
" the road ahead will be difficult .
there will be more violence and there will be setbacks , " obama said , with karzai and zardari at his side in the grand foyer of the white house .
" but let me be clear - the united states has not only made a lasting commitment to defeat al qaeda but also to support the democratically elected sovereign governments of both pakistan and afghanistan .
that commitment will not waiver and that support will be sustained . "
the obama administration has sharply criticized both karzai and zardari in the past , questioning their commitment and capability to tackle the threat from al qaeda and the taliban .
civilian casualties caused by us military operations in both countries , including drone strikes inside pakistan , have infuriated many afghans and pakistanis and made it harder for both countries ' leaders to cooperate with the united states .
military action earlier this week is believed to have caused dozens of civilian deaths with regional lawmakers and the international committee of the red cross reporting that as many as 100 people may have died in an operation in the bala boluk district of farah province in western afghanistan .
" we deeply , deeply regret that loss , " us secretary of state hillary clinton said of the civilian deaths before meeting karzai and zardari .
later she called that meeting " in some ways a breakthrough " and said she was " very optimistic " the process was making a difference .
obama announced a new approach to the fight against al qaeda in both countries in late march , offering more aid but also more than 20,000 extra troops to afghanistan this year .
pakistan 's zardari , who has been under fierce criticism for his response to taliban militants who have made inroads in the swat and buner valleys this year , pleaded for support for his fledgling democracy .
" my democracy needs attention and needs nurturing , " zardari said .
" pakistani democracy will deliver , the terrorists will be defeated by our joint struggle .
me , my friend president karzai and the united states ... will stand shoulder to shoulder with the world to fight this cancer and this threat . "
the pakistan government recently launched a major military offensive following pressure from the us to stop the advance of extremists in the region .
the islamist taliban says the offensive violates a peace deal it made with islamabad , which allowed the introduction of shariah law in the swat valley in exchange for a ceasefire .
on wednesday , pakistani security forces attacked taliban fighters in the swat valley , killing at least 64 of them after the united states called on the government to show its commitment to fighting militancy .
but the growing taliban influence in north-western pakistan has raised international concerns over the stability of the nuclear-armed country .
meanwhile in berlin , pakistani defence minister chaudry ahmad mukhtar has met with his german counterpart franz josef jung and asked for international help .
mukhtar said pakistan did not have the capacity to fight what he described as a " guerrilla war " in the north-west of the country . nrt , nk dpa / reuters / ap send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de obama to up pressure on , offer incentives to pakistan and afghanistan money for security - that 's the deal that us president barack obama is to offer his pakistani and afghan counterparts on wednesday .
a former german ambassador to pakistan talks us through a potentially historic meeting .
-lrb- 05.05.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic pakistani defence minister visits germany us president barack obama unveils a new afghan war strategy 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
wto ruling the world trade organization rules that china 's export restrictions on raw materials are illegal .
watch the video cairo clashes cairo 's tahrir square is back in the headlines after violent clashes between protesters and police .
watch the video in depth focus on libya dw-world looks at the turmoil in libya : what it means for tripoli and the rest of the world .
international conference media representatives around the world gather in bonn to discuss human rights .
podcast series a german musician brings change with song and crowd funding .
download the report subscribe to the series on itunes past episodes learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
steinmeier urges israeli counterpart to accept two-state plan -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 22.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de israel -pipe- 07.05.2009 steinmeier urges israeli counterpart to accept two-state plan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lieberman has been making his first official visit to berlin while in berlin , israel 's foreign minister has left a cloud over the mideast peace process , calling it a waste of money . israeli foreign minister avigdor lieberman has left german parliamentarians pessimistic about the future of the middle east peace process .
in berlin , the last stop of his four-day european tour , the right-wing minister refused to commit to a two-state solution for israel and the palestinian territories .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lieberman -lrb- right -rrb- with ruprecht polenz , chairman of the foreign affairs committee during talks with members of the german parliamentary foreign affairs committee lieberman said the peace process had been little more than a waste of money .
he also brought up iran , saying the country was a major threat .
later in the day , lieberman paid his respects at berlin 's holocaust memorial , laying a wreath at the 19,000-square-meter monument in the center of berlin .
lieberman later held talks with german interior minister wolfgang schaeuble , followed by dinner with his german counterpart frank-walter steinmeier .
germany 's top diplomat urged the controversial israeli foreign minister to adopt a two-state plan as the basis for peace in the middle east and the " sole path to peace and security . "
steinmeier emphasized that the german government expected the new israeli administration under prime minister benjamin netanyahu would abide with previous peace commitments .
the german minister said it was important to stregthen moderate forces in the region and actively involve them in the peace process .
with regard to the situation in the gaza strip , steinmeier said it was imperative that palestinians had access to aid supplies .
the israeli foreign minister , who heads a nationalist party in prime minister benjamin netanyahu 's coalition , caused a stir on his first day in office , when he announced that israel was no longer bound by the so-called annapolis peace process , which formed the basis of the israeli-palestinian peace talks in 2008 .
lieberman 's european visit - which has included meetings in rome , paris and european union talks in prague - was mostly conducted out of the media eye .
in berlin , no joint press conference or photo call was scheduled for his meeting with steinmeier .
this echoed lieberman 's reception in france , where foreign minister bernard kouchner chose not to hold a joint press conference as had been customary when lieberman 's predecessor tzipi livni came to paris . ch / pfd / nrt , rtr / dpa / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de merkel says " no alternative " to two-state solution in middle east german chancellor angela merkel has said there is no alternative to a two-state solution to the mideast crisis following talks in berlin on wednesday with jordan 's king abdullah ii .
-lrb- 06.05.2009 -rrb- netanyahu demands that palestinians recognize israel as jewish state israeli prime minister benjamin netanyahu has demanded palestinians recognize israel as a jewish state .
the call was made during his meeting with the visiting us special envoy to the middle east , george mitchell .
-lrb- 16.04.2009 -rrb- opinion : labour decision to join likud harms hopes for peace israeli labour party head ehud barack 's decision to take part in a government led by hardliner benjamin netanyahu is a disservice to the labour party and , more importantly , to hopes for peace , writes dw 's peter philipp .
-lrb- 25.03.2009 -rrb- 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - news with business we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive. diplomacy germany impounds a plane owned by thailand 's crown prince after bangkok fails to pay its debts .
watch the video dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
steinmeier urges israeli counterpart to accept two-state plan -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de israel -pipe- 07.05.2009 steinmeier urges israeli counterpart to accept two-state plan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lieberman has been making his first official visit to berlin while in berlin , israel 's foreign minister has left a cloud over the mideast peace process , calling it a waste of money . israeli foreign minister avigdor lieberman has left german parliamentarians pessimistic about the future of the middle east peace process .
in berlin , the last stop of his four-day european tour , the right-wing minister refused to commit to a two-state solution for israel and the palestinian territories .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lieberman -lrb- right -rrb- with ruprecht polenz , chairman of the foreign affairs committee during talks with members of the german parliamentary foreign affairs committee lieberman said the peace process had been little more than a waste of money .
he also brought up iran , saying the country was a major threat .
later in the day , lieberman paid his respects at berlin 's holocaust memorial , laying a wreath at the 19,000-square-meter monument in the center of berlin .
lieberman later held talks with german interior minister wolfgang schaeuble , followed by dinner with his german counterpart frank-walter steinmeier .
germany 's top diplomat urged the controversial israeli foreign minister to adopt a two-state plan as the basis for peace in the middle east and the " sole path to peace and security . "
steinmeier emphasized that the german government expected the new israeli administration under prime minister benjamin netanyahu would abide with previous peace commitments .
the german minister said it was important to stregthen moderate forces in the region and actively involve them in the peace process .
with regard to the situation in the gaza strip , steinmeier said it was imperative that palestinians had access to aid supplies .
the israeli foreign minister , who heads a nationalist party in prime minister benjamin netanyahu 's coalition , caused a stir on his first day in office , when he announced that israel was no longer bound by the so-called annapolis peace process , which formed the basis of the israeli-palestinian peace talks in 2008 .
lieberman 's european visit - which has included meetings in rome , paris and european union talks in prague - was mostly conducted out of the media eye .
in berlin , no joint press conference or photo call was scheduled for his meeting with steinmeier .
this echoed lieberman 's reception in france , where foreign minister bernard kouchner chose not to hold a joint press conference as had been customary when lieberman 's predecessor tzipi livni came to paris . ch / pfd / nrt , rtr / dpa / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de merkel says " no alternative " to two-state solution in middle east german chancellor angela merkel has said there is no alternative to a two-state solution to the mideast crisis following talks in berlin on wednesday with jordan 's king abdullah ii .
-lrb- 06.05.2009 -rrb- netanyahu demands that palestinians recognize israel as jewish state israeli prime minister benjamin netanyahu has demanded palestinians recognize israel as a jewish state .
the call was made during his meeting with the visiting us special envoy to the middle east , george mitchell .
-lrb- 16.04.2009 -rrb- opinion : labour decision to join likud harms hopes for peace israeli labour party head ehud barack 's decision to take part in a government led by hardliner benjamin netanyahu is a disservice to the labour party and , more importantly , to hopes for peace , writes dw 's peter philipp .
-lrb- 25.03.2009 -rrb- 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit die woche we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live sports report listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
business the historic german brand faber-castell celebrates 250 years of making pencils and pens .
watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
steinmeier urges israeli counterpart to accept two-state plan -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 15.11.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de israel -pipe- 07.05.2009 steinmeier urges israeli counterpart to accept two-state plan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lieberman has been making his first official visit to berlin while in berlin , israel 's foreign minister has left a cloud over the mideast peace process , calling it a waste of money . israeli foreign minister avigdor lieberman has left german parliamentarians pessimistic about the future of the middle east peace process .
in berlin , the last stop of his four-day european tour , the right-wing minister refused to commit to a two-state solution for israel and the palestinian territories .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lieberman -lrb- right -rrb- with ruprecht polenz , chairman of the foreign affairs committee during talks with members of the german parliamentary foreign affairs committee lieberman said the peace process had been little more than a waste of money .
he also brought up iran , saying the country was a major threat .
later in the day , lieberman paid his respects at berlin 's holocaust memorial , laying a wreath at the 19,000-square-meter monument in the center of berlin .
lieberman later held talks with german interior minister wolfgang schaeuble , followed by dinner with his german counterpart frank-walter steinmeier .
germany 's top diplomat urged the controversial israeli foreign minister to adopt a two-state plan as the basis for peace in the middle east and the " sole path to peace and security . "
steinmeier emphasized that the german government expected the new israeli administration under prime minister benjamin netanyahu would abide with previous peace commitments .
the german minister said it was important to stregthen moderate forces in the region and actively involve them in the peace process .
with regard to the situation in the gaza strip , steinmeier said it was imperative that palestinians had access to aid supplies .
the israeli foreign minister , who heads a nationalist party in prime minister benjamin netanyahu 's coalition , caused a stir on his first day in office , when he announced that israel was no longer bound by the so-called annapolis peace process , which formed the basis of the israeli-palestinian peace talks in 2008 .
lieberman 's european visit - which has included meetings in rome , paris and european union talks in prague - was mostly conducted out of the media eye .
in berlin , no joint press conference or photo call was scheduled for his meeting with steinmeier .
this echoed lieberman 's reception in france , where foreign minister bernard kouchner chose not to hold a joint press conference as had been customary when lieberman 's predecessor tzipi livni came to paris . ch / pfd / nrt , rtr / dpa / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de merkel says " no alternative " to two-state solution in middle east german chancellor angela merkel has said there is no alternative to a two-state solution to the mideast crisis following talks in berlin on wednesday with jordan 's king abdullah ii .
-lrb- 06.05.2009 -rrb- netanyahu demands that palestinians recognize israel as jewish state israeli prime minister benjamin netanyahu has demanded palestinians recognize israel as a jewish state .
the call was made during his meeting with the visiting us special envoy to the middle east , george mitchell .
-lrb- 16.04.2009 -rrb- opinion : labour decision to join likud harms hopes for peace israeli labour party head ehud barack 's decision to take part in a government led by hardliner benjamin netanyahu is a disservice to the labour party and , more importantly , to hopes for peace , writes dw 's peter philipp .
-lrb- 25.03.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
steinmeier urges israeli counterpart to accept two-state plan -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.10.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de israel -pipe- 07.05.2009 steinmeier urges israeli counterpart to accept two-state plan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lieberman has been making his first official visit to berlin while in berlin , israel 's foreign minister has left a cloud over the mideast peace process , calling it a waste of money . israeli foreign minister avigdor lieberman has left german parliamentarians pessimistic about the future of the middle east peace process .
in berlin , the last stop of his four-day european tour , the right-wing minister refused to commit to a two-state solution for israel and the palestinian territories .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lieberman -lrb- right -rrb- with ruprecht polenz , chairman of the foreign affairs committee during talks with members of the german parliamentary foreign affairs committee lieberman said the peace process had been little more than a waste of money .
he also brought up iran , saying the country was a major threat .
later in the day , lieberman paid his respects at berlin 's holocaust memorial , laying a wreath at the 19,000-square-meter monument in the center of berlin .
lieberman later held talks with german interior minister wolfgang schaeuble , followed by dinner with his german counterpart frank-walter steinmeier .
germany 's top diplomat urged the controversial israeli foreign minister to adopt a two-state plan as the basis for peace in the middle east and the " sole path to peace and security . "
steinmeier emphasized that the german government expected the new israeli administration under prime minister benjamin netanyahu would abide with previous peace commitments .
the german minister said it was important to stregthen moderate forces in the region and actively involve them in the peace process .
with regard to the situation in the gaza strip , steinmeier said it was imperative that palestinians had access to aid supplies .
the israeli foreign minister , who heads a nationalist party in prime minister benjamin netanyahu 's coalition , caused a stir on his first day in office , when he announced that israel was no longer bound by the so-called annapolis peace process , which formed the basis of the israeli-palestinian peace talks in 2008 .
lieberman 's european visit - which has included meetings in rome , paris and european union talks in prague - was mostly conducted out of the media eye .
in berlin , no joint press conference or photo call was scheduled for his meeting with steinmeier .
this echoed lieberman 's reception in france , where foreign minister bernard kouchner chose not to hold a joint press conference as had been customary when lieberman 's predecessor tzipi livni came to paris . ch / pfd / nrt , rtr / dpa / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de merkel says " no alternative " to two-state solution in middle east german chancellor angela merkel has said there is no alternative to a two-state solution to the mideast crisis following talks in berlin on wednesday with jordan 's king abdullah ii .
-lrb- 06.05.2009 -rrb- netanyahu demands that palestinians recognize israel as jewish state israeli prime minister benjamin netanyahu has demanded palestinians recognize israel as a jewish state .
the call was made during his meeting with the visiting us special envoy to the middle east , george mitchell .
-lrb- 16.04.2009 -rrb- opinion : labour decision to join likud harms hopes for peace israeli labour party head ehud barack 's decision to take part in a government led by hardliner benjamin netanyahu is a disservice to the labour party and , more importantly , to hopes for peace , writes dw 's peter philipp .
-lrb- 25.03.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live global 3000 we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live spectrum listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
steinmeier urges israeli counterpart to accept two-state plan -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.12.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de israel -pipe- 07.05.2009 steinmeier urges israeli counterpart to accept two-state plan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lieberman has been making his first official visit to berlin while in berlin , israel 's foreign minister has left a cloud over the mideast peace process , calling it a waste of money . israeli foreign minister avigdor lieberman has left german parliamentarians pessimistic about the future of the middle east peace process .
in berlin , the last stop of his four-day european tour , the right-wing minister refused to commit to a two-state solution for israel and the palestinian territories .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lieberman -lrb- right -rrb- with ruprecht polenz , chairman of the foreign affairs committee during talks with members of the german parliamentary foreign affairs committee lieberman said the peace process had been little more than a waste of money .
he also brought up iran , saying the country was a major threat .
later in the day , lieberman paid his respects at berlin 's holocaust memorial , laying a wreath at the 19,000-square-meter monument in the center of berlin .
lieberman later held talks with german interior minister wolfgang schaeuble , followed by dinner with his german counterpart frank-walter steinmeier .
germany 's top diplomat urged the controversial israeli foreign minister to adopt a two-state plan as the basis for peace in the middle east and the " sole path to peace and security . "
steinmeier emphasized that the german government expected the new israeli administration under prime minister benjamin netanyahu would abide with previous peace commitments .
the german minister said it was important to stregthen moderate forces in the region and actively involve them in the peace process .
with regard to the situation in the gaza strip , steinmeier said it was imperative that palestinians had access to aid supplies .
the israeli foreign minister , who heads a nationalist party in prime minister benjamin netanyahu 's coalition , caused a stir on his first day in office , when he announced that israel was no longer bound by the so-called annapolis peace process , which formed the basis of the israeli-palestinian peace talks in 2008 .
lieberman 's european visit - which has included meetings in rome , paris and european union talks in prague - was mostly conducted out of the media eye .
in berlin , no joint press conference or photo call was scheduled for his meeting with steinmeier .
this echoed lieberman 's reception in france , where foreign minister bernard kouchner chose not to hold a joint press conference as had been customary when lieberman 's predecessor tzipi livni came to paris . ch / pfd / nrt , rtr / dpa / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de merkel says " no alternative " to two-state solution in middle east german chancellor angela merkel has said there is no alternative to a two-state solution to the mideast crisis following talks in berlin on wednesday with jordan 's king abdullah ii .
-lrb- 06.05.2009 -rrb- netanyahu demands that palestinians recognize israel as jewish state israeli prime minister benjamin netanyahu has demanded palestinians recognize israel as a jewish state .
the call was made during his meeting with the visiting us special envoy to the middle east , george mitchell .
-lrb- 16.04.2009 -rrb- opinion : labour decision to join likud harms hopes for peace israeli labour party head ehud barack 's decision to take part in a government led by hardliner benjamin netanyahu is a disservice to the labour party and , more importantly , to hopes for peace , writes dw 's peter philipp .
-lrb- 25.03.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live european business week making europe 's business your business listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
travel passau is called the three river city , but it is just as famous for its baroque splendor .
passau - baroque facades and vibrant arts watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
steinmeier urges israeli counterpart to accept two-state plan -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 29.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de israel -pipe- 07.05.2009 steinmeier urges israeli counterpart to accept two-state plan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lieberman has been making his first official visit to berlin while in berlin , israel 's foreign minister has left a cloud over the mideast peace process , calling it a waste of money . israeli foreign minister avigdor lieberman has left german parliamentarians pessimistic about the future of the middle east peace process .
in berlin , the last stop of his four-day european tour , the right-wing minister refused to commit to a two-state solution for israel and the palestinian territories .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lieberman -lrb- right -rrb- with ruprecht polenz , chairman of the foreign affairs committee during talks with members of the german parliamentary foreign affairs committee lieberman said the peace process had been little more than a waste of money .
he also brought up iran , saying the country was a major threat .
later in the day , lieberman paid his respects at berlin 's holocaust memorial , laying a wreath at the 19,000-square-meter monument in the center of berlin .
lieberman later held talks with german interior minister wolfgang schaeuble , followed by dinner with his german counterpart frank-walter steinmeier .
germany 's top diplomat urged the controversial israeli foreign minister to adopt a two-state plan as the basis for peace in the middle east and the " sole path to peace and security . "
steinmeier emphasized that the german government expected the new israeli administration under prime minister benjamin netanyahu would abide with previous peace commitments .
the german minister said it was important to stregthen moderate forces in the region and actively involve them in the peace process .
with regard to the situation in the gaza strip , steinmeier said it was imperative that palestinians had access to aid supplies .
the israeli foreign minister , who heads a nationalist party in prime minister benjamin netanyahu 's coalition , caused a stir on his first day in office , when he announced that israel was no longer bound by the so-called annapolis peace process , which formed the basis of the israeli-palestinian peace talks in 2008 .
lieberman 's european visit - which has included meetings in rome , paris and european union talks in prague - was mostly conducted out of the media eye .
in berlin , no joint press conference or photo call was scheduled for his meeting with steinmeier .
this echoed lieberman 's reception in france , where foreign minister bernard kouchner chose not to hold a joint press conference as had been customary when lieberman 's predecessor tzipi livni came to paris . ch / pfd / nrt , rtr / dpa / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de merkel says " no alternative " to two-state solution in middle east german chancellor angela merkel has said there is no alternative to a two-state solution to the mideast crisis following talks in berlin on wednesday with jordan 's king abdullah ii .
-lrb- 06.05.2009 -rrb- netanyahu demands that palestinians recognize israel as jewish state israeli prime minister benjamin netanyahu has demanded palestinians recognize israel as a jewish state .
the call was made during his meeting with the visiting us special envoy to the middle east , george mitchell .
-lrb- 16.04.2009 -rrb- opinion : labour decision to join likud harms hopes for peace israeli labour party head ehud barack 's decision to take part in a government led by hardliner benjamin netanyahu is a disservice to the labour party and , more importantly , to hopes for peace , writes dw 's peter philipp .
-lrb- 25.03.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live sondersendung we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
steinmeier urges israeli counterpart to accept two-state plan -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 26.03.2011 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de israel -pipe- 07.05.2009 steinmeier urges israeli counterpart to accept two-state plan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lieberman has been making his first official visit to berlin while in berlin , israel 's foreign minister has left a cloud over the mideast peace process , calling it a waste of money . israeli foreign minister avigdor lieberman has left german parliamentarians pessimistic about the future of the middle east peace process .
in berlin , the last stop of his four-day european tour , the right-wing minister refused to commit to a two-state solution for israel and the palestinian territories .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lieberman -lrb- right -rrb- with ruprecht polenz , chairman of the foreign affairs committee during talks with members of the german parliamentary foreign affairs committee lieberman said the peace process had been little more than a waste of money .
he also brought up iran , saying the country was a major threat .
later in the day , lieberman paid his respects at berlin 's holocaust memorial , laying a wreath at the 19,000-square-meter monument in the center of berlin .
lieberman later held talks with german interior minister wolfgang schaeuble , followed by dinner with his german counterpart frank-walter steinmeier .
germany 's top diplomat urged the controversial israeli foreign minister to adopt a two-state plan as the basis for peace in the middle east and the " sole path to peace and security . "
steinmeier emphasized that the german government expected the new israeli administration under prime minister benjamin netanyahu would abide with previous peace commitments .
the german minister said it was important to stregthen moderate forces in the region and actively involve them in the peace process .
with regard to the situation in the gaza strip , steinmeier said it was imperative that palestinians had access to aid supplies .
the israeli foreign minister , who heads a nationalist party in prime minister benjamin netanyahu 's coalition , caused a stir on his first day in office , when he announced that israel was no longer bound by the so-called annapolis peace process , which formed the basis of the israeli-palestinian peace talks in 2008 .
lieberman 's european visit - which has included meetings in rome , paris and european union talks in prague - was mostly conducted out of the media eye .
in berlin , no joint press conference or photo call was scheduled for his meeting with steinmeier .
this echoed lieberman 's reception in france , where foreign minister bernard kouchner chose not to hold a joint press conference as had been customary when lieberman 's predecessor tzipi livni came to paris . ch / pfd / nrt , rtr / dpa / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de merkel says " no alternative " to two-state solution in middle east german chancellor angela merkel has said there is no alternative to a two-state solution to the mideast crisis following talks in berlin on wednesday with jordan 's king abdullah ii .
-lrb- 06.05.2009 -rrb- netanyahu demands that palestinians recognize israel as jewish state israeli prime minister benjamin netanyahu has demanded palestinians recognize israel as a jewish state .
the call was made during his meeting with the visiting us special envoy to the middle east , george mitchell .
-lrb- 16.04.2009 -rrb- opinion : labour decision to join likud harms hopes for peace israeli labour party head ehud barack 's decision to take part in a government led by hardliner benjamin netanyahu is a disservice to the labour party and , more importantly , to hopes for peace , writes dw 's peter philipp .
-lrb- 25.03.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live hits in germany the latest from germany 's top 100 listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
steinmeier urges israeli counterpart to accept two-state plan -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 08.09.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de israel -pipe- 07.05.2009 steinmeier urges israeli counterpart to accept two-state plan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lieberman has been making his first official visit to berlin while in berlin , israel 's foreign minister has left a cloud over the mideast peace process , calling it a waste of money . israeli foreign minister avigdor lieberman has left german parliamentarians pessimistic about the future of the middle east peace process .
in berlin , the last stop of his four-day european tour , the right-wing minister refused to commit to a two-state solution for israel and the palestinian territories .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lieberman -lrb- right -rrb- with ruprecht polenz , chairman of the foreign affairs committee during talks with members of the german parliamentary foreign affairs committee lieberman said the peace process had been little more than a waste of money .
he also brought up iran , saying the country was a major threat .
later in the day , lieberman paid his respects at berlin 's holocaust memorial , laying a wreath at the 19,000-square-meter monument in the center of berlin .
lieberman later held talks with german interior minister wolfgang schaeuble , followed by dinner with his german counterpart frank-walter steinmeier .
germany 's top diplomat urged the controversial israeli foreign minister to adopt a two-state plan as the basis for peace in the middle east and the " sole path to peace and security . "
steinmeier emphasized that the german government expected the new israeli administration under prime minister benjamin netanyahu would abide with previous peace commitments .
the german minister said it was important to stregthen moderate forces in the region and actively involve them in the peace process .
with regard to the situation in the gaza strip , steinmeier said it was imperative that palestinians had access to aid supplies .
the israeli foreign minister , who heads a nationalist party in prime minister benjamin netanyahu 's coalition , caused a stir on his first day in office , when he announced that israel was no longer bound by the so-called annapolis peace process , which formed the basis of the israeli-palestinian peace talks in 2008 .
lieberman 's european visit - which has included meetings in rome , paris and european union talks in prague - was mostly conducted out of the media eye .
in berlin , no joint press conference or photo call was scheduled for his meeting with steinmeier .
this echoed lieberman 's reception in france , where foreign minister bernard kouchner chose not to hold a joint press conference as had been customary when lieberman 's predecessor tzipi livni came to paris . ch / pfd / nrt , rtr / dpa / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de merkel says " no alternative " to two-state solution in middle east german chancellor angela merkel has said there is no alternative to a two-state solution to the mideast crisis following talks in berlin on wednesday with jordan 's king abdullah ii .
-lrb- 06.05.2009 -rrb- netanyahu demands that palestinians recognize israel as jewish state israeli prime minister benjamin netanyahu has demanded palestinians recognize israel as a jewish state .
the call was made during his meeting with the visiting us special envoy to the middle east , george mitchell .
-lrb- 16.04.2009 -rrb- opinion : labour decision to join likud harms hopes for peace israeli labour party head ehud barack 's decision to take part in a government led by hardliner benjamin netanyahu is a disservice to the labour party and , more importantly , to hopes for peace , writes dw 's peter philipp .
-lrb- 25.03.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live world in progress listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german industrial orders make surprise jump -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 06.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de business -pipe- 07.05.2009 german industrial orders make surprise jump großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : daimler truck factory in woerth - demand for german manufactured goods is up german industrial orders in march showed their first rise for six months , on the back of an increase in orders from abroad . preliminary government figures show that german industrial orders grew an unexpected 3.3 percent in march , driven by an increase in demand from abroad .
the rise - economists had expected a moderate fall for the world 's top exporter - is the first piece of hard data to back up the government 's prediction that the economy is set to grow slightly in 2010 .
the german economy is expected to experience negative growth of around six percent this year .
germany 's economics ministry said the seasonally adjusted rise did not even begin to make up for recent months , with orders for goods falling by 14.5 percent in the first quarter .
the ministry said , though , that the latest numbers showed the trend had changed .
the march increase compared with a 3.1 percent drop in february ; and was largely due to a 5.6 percent increase in orders from abroad .
domestic orders also grew by just over one percent .
the month-on-month climb in march was stronger than expected and indicated that europe 's biggest economy may already be on the rebound from the worst effects of the global recession .
however , the european commission slashed its economic projections on monday , saying europe 's economy would shrink by four per cent this year .
that 's double the figure that it predicted at the start of the year . ch / pfd , rtr / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german business confidence falls ; economists say turnaround near business confidence in europe 's largest economy has reached an all time low , but according to some economists , things could level out and even rebound in the coming months .
-lrb- 26.03.2009 -rrb- europe to lose 3.5 million jobs in 2009 , study says a new study by the eu commission says that jobless rolls in the european union will swell by a further 3.5 million this year as the global economic slowdown batters labor markets across europe .
-lrb- 18.02.2009 -rrb- airbus warns of " horrible " year ahead european aircraft manufacturing giant airbus expects a dismal year with orders plummeting as the global economic crisis hits the aviation industry .
-lrb- 15.01.2009 -rrb- 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit wirtschaft we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live spectrum listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
art german photographer lala aufsberg 's work is a fascinating historical record of the 20th century .
watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german industrial orders make surprise jump -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 26.10.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de business -pipe- 07.05.2009 german industrial orders make surprise jump großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : daimler truck factory in woerth - demand for german manufactured goods is up german industrial orders in march showed their first rise for six months , on the back of an increase in orders from abroad . preliminary government figures show that german industrial orders grew an unexpected 3.3 percent in march , driven by an increase in demand from abroad .
the rise - economists had expected a moderate fall for the world 's top exporter - is the first piece of hard data to back up the government 's prediction that the economy is set to grow slightly in 2010 .
the german economy is expected to experience negative growth of around six percent this year .
germany 's economics ministry said the seasonally adjusted rise did not even begin to make up for recent months , with orders for goods falling by 14.5 percent in the first quarter .
the ministry said , though , that the latest numbers showed the trend had changed .
the march increase compared with a 3.1 percent drop in february ; and was largely due to a 5.6 percent increase in orders from abroad .
domestic orders also grew by just over one percent .
the month-on-month climb in march was stronger than expected and indicated that europe 's biggest economy may already be on the rebound from the worst effects of the global recession .
however , the european commission slashed its economic projections on monday , saying europe 's economy would shrink by four per cent this year .
that 's double the figure that it predicted at the start of the year . ch / pfd , rtr / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german business confidence falls ; economists say turnaround near business confidence in europe 's largest economy has reached an all time low , but according to some economists , things could level out and even rebound in the coming months .
-lrb- 26.03.2009 -rrb- europe to lose 3.5 million jobs in 2009 , study says a new study by the eu commission says that jobless rolls in the european union will swell by a further 3.5 million this year as the global economic slowdown batters labor markets across europe .
-lrb- 18.02.2009 -rrb- airbus warns of " horrible " year ahead european aircraft manufacturing giant airbus expects a dismal year with orders plummeting as the global economic crisis hits the aviation industry .
-lrb- 15.01.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live hits in germany pop from the german top 100 listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german industrial orders make surprise jump -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.12.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de business -pipe- 07.05.2009 german industrial orders make surprise jump großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : daimler truck factory in woerth - demand for german manufactured goods is up german industrial orders in march showed their first rise for six months , on the back of an increase in orders from abroad . preliminary government figures show that german industrial orders grew an unexpected 3.3 percent in march , driven by an increase in demand from abroad .
the rise - economists had expected a moderate fall for the world 's top exporter - is the first piece of hard data to back up the government 's prediction that the economy is set to grow slightly in 2010 .
the german economy is expected to experience negative growth of around six percent this year .
germany 's economics ministry said the seasonally adjusted rise did not even begin to make up for recent months , with orders for goods falling by 14.5 percent in the first quarter .
the ministry said , though , that the latest numbers showed the trend had changed .
the march increase compared with a 3.1 percent drop in february ; and was largely due to a 5.6 percent increase in orders from abroad .
domestic orders also grew by just over one percent .
the month-on-month climb in march was stronger than expected and indicated that europe 's biggest economy may already be on the rebound from the worst effects of the global recession .
however , the european commission slashed its economic projections on monday , saying europe 's economy would shrink by four per cent this year .
that 's double the figure that it predicted at the start of the year . ch / pfd , rtr / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german business confidence falls ; economists say turnaround near business confidence in europe 's largest economy has reached an all time low , but according to some economists , things could level out and even rebound in the coming months .
-lrb- 26.03.2009 -rrb- europe to lose 3.5 million jobs in 2009 , study says a new study by the eu commission says that jobless rolls in the european union will swell by a further 3.5 million this year as the global economic slowdown batters labor markets across europe .
-lrb- 18.02.2009 -rrb- airbus warns of " horrible " year ahead european aircraft manufacturing giant airbus expects a dismal year with orders plummeting as the global economic crisis hits the aviation industry .
-lrb- 15.01.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live in-box feedback from around the world listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
travel passau is called the three river city , but it is just as famous for its baroque splendor .
passau - baroque facades and vibrant arts watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german industrial orders make surprise jump -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 25.03.2011 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de business -pipe- 07.05.2009 german industrial orders make surprise jump großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : daimler truck factory in woerth - demand for german manufactured goods is up german industrial orders in march showed their first rise for six months , on the back of an increase in orders from abroad . preliminary government figures show that german industrial orders grew an unexpected 3.3 percent in march , driven by an increase in demand from abroad .
the rise - economists had expected a moderate fall for the world 's top exporter - is the first piece of hard data to back up the government 's prediction that the economy is set to grow slightly in 2010 .
the german economy is expected to experience negative growth of around six percent this year .
germany 's economics ministry said the seasonally adjusted rise did not even begin to make up for recent months , with orders for goods falling by 14.5 percent in the first quarter .
the ministry said , though , that the latest numbers showed the trend had changed .
the march increase compared with a 3.1 percent drop in february ; and was largely due to a 5.6 percent increase in orders from abroad .
domestic orders also grew by just over one percent .
the month-on-month climb in march was stronger than expected and indicated that europe 's biggest economy may already be on the rebound from the worst effects of the global recession .
however , the european commission slashed its economic projections on monday , saying europe 's economy would shrink by four per cent this year .
that 's double the figure that it predicted at the start of the year . ch / pfd , rtr / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german business confidence falls ; economists say turnaround near business confidence in europe 's largest economy has reached an all time low , but according to some economists , things could level out and even rebound in the coming months .
-lrb- 26.03.2009 -rrb- europe to lose 3.5 million jobs in 2009 , study says a new study by the eu commission says that jobless rolls in the european union will swell by a further 3.5 million this year as the global economic slowdown batters labor markets across europe .
-lrb- 18.02.2009 -rrb- airbus warns of " horrible " year ahead european aircraft manufacturing giant airbus expects a dismal year with orders plummeting as the global economic crisis hits the aviation industry .
-lrb- 15.01.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german industrial orders make surprise jump -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 28.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de business -pipe- 07.05.2009 german industrial orders make surprise jump großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : daimler truck factory in woerth - demand for german manufactured goods is up german industrial orders in march showed their first rise for six months , on the back of an increase in orders from abroad . preliminary government figures show that german industrial orders grew an unexpected 3.3 percent in march , driven by an increase in demand from abroad .
the rise - economists had expected a moderate fall for the world 's top exporter - is the first piece of hard data to back up the government 's prediction that the economy is set to grow slightly in 2010 .
the german economy is expected to experience negative growth of around six percent this year .
germany 's economics ministry said the seasonally adjusted rise did not even begin to make up for recent months , with orders for goods falling by 14.5 percent in the first quarter .
the ministry said , though , that the latest numbers showed the trend had changed .
the march increase compared with a 3.1 percent drop in february ; and was largely due to a 5.6 percent increase in orders from abroad .
domestic orders also grew by just over one percent .
the month-on-month climb in march was stronger than expected and indicated that europe 's biggest economy may already be on the rebound from the worst effects of the global recession .
however , the european commission slashed its economic projections on monday , saying europe 's economy would shrink by four per cent this year .
that 's double the figure that it predicted at the start of the year . ch / pfd , rtr / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german business confidence falls ; economists say turnaround near business confidence in europe 's largest economy has reached an all time low , but according to some economists , things could level out and even rebound in the coming months .
-lrb- 26.03.2009 -rrb- europe to lose 3.5 million jobs in 2009 , study says a new study by the eu commission says that jobless rolls in the european union will swell by a further 3.5 million this year as the global economic slowdown batters labor markets across europe .
-lrb- 18.02.2009 -rrb- airbus warns of " horrible " year ahead european aircraft manufacturing giant airbus expects a dismal year with orders plummeting as the global economic crisis hits the aviation industry .
-lrb- 15.01.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live made in germany we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german industrial orders make surprise jump -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 14.09.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de business -pipe- 07.05.2009 german industrial orders make surprise jump großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : daimler truck factory in woerth - demand for german manufactured goods is up german industrial orders in march showed their first rise for six months , on the back of an increase in orders from abroad . preliminary government figures show that german industrial orders grew an unexpected 3.3 percent in march , driven by an increase in demand from abroad .
the rise - economists had expected a moderate fall for the world 's top exporter - is the first piece of hard data to back up the government 's prediction that the economy is set to grow slightly in 2010 .
the german economy is expected to experience negative growth of around six percent this year .
germany 's economics ministry said the seasonally adjusted rise did not even begin to make up for recent months , with orders for goods falling by 14.5 percent in the first quarter .
the ministry said , though , that the latest numbers showed the trend had changed .
the march increase compared with a 3.1 percent drop in february ; and was largely due to a 5.6 percent increase in orders from abroad .
domestic orders also grew by just over one percent .
the month-on-month climb in march was stronger than expected and indicated that europe 's biggest economy may already be on the rebound from the worst effects of the global recession .
however , the european commission slashed its economic projections on monday , saying europe 's economy would shrink by four per cent this year .
that 's double the figure that it predicted at the start of the year . ch / pfd , rtr / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german business confidence falls ; economists say turnaround near business confidence in europe 's largest economy has reached an all time low , but according to some economists , things could level out and even rebound in the coming months .
-lrb- 26.03.2009 -rrb- europe to lose 3.5 million jobs in 2009 , study says a new study by the eu commission says that jobless rolls in the european union will swell by a further 3.5 million this year as the global economic slowdown batters labor markets across europe .
-lrb- 18.02.2009 -rrb- airbus warns of " horrible " year ahead european aircraft manufacturing giant airbus expects a dismal year with orders plummeting as the global economic crisis hits the aviation industry .
-lrb- 15.01.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live spectrum listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german industrial orders make surprise jump -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 01.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de business -pipe- 07.05.2009 german industrial orders make surprise jump großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : daimler truck factory in woerth - demand for german manufactured goods is up german industrial orders in march showed their first rise for six months , on the back of an increase in orders from abroad . preliminary government figures show that german industrial orders grew an unexpected 3.3 percent in march , driven by an increase in demand from abroad .
the rise - economists had expected a moderate fall for the world 's top exporter - is the first piece of hard data to back up the government 's prediction that the economy is set to grow slightly in 2010 .
the german economy is expected to experience negative growth of around six percent this year .
germany 's economics ministry said the seasonally adjusted rise did not even begin to make up for recent months , with orders for goods falling by 14.5 percent in the first quarter .
the ministry said , though , that the latest numbers showed the trend had changed .
the march increase compared with a 3.1 percent drop in february ; and was largely due to a 5.6 percent increase in orders from abroad .
domestic orders also grew by just over one percent .
the month-on-month climb in march was stronger than expected and indicated that europe 's biggest economy may already be on the rebound from the worst effects of the global recession .
however , the european commission slashed its economic projections on monday , saying europe 's economy would shrink by four per cent this year .
that 's double the figure that it predicted at the start of the year . ch / pfd , rtr / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german business confidence falls ; economists say turnaround near business confidence in europe 's largest economy has reached an all time low , but according to some economists , things could level out and even rebound in the coming months .
-lrb- 26.03.2009 -rrb- europe to lose 3.5 million jobs in 2009 , study says a new study by the eu commission says that jobless rolls in the european union will swell by a further 3.5 million this year as the global economic slowdown batters labor markets across europe .
-lrb- 18.02.2009 -rrb- airbus warns of " horrible " year ahead european aircraft manufacturing giant airbus expects a dismal year with orders plummeting as the global economic crisis hits the aviation industry .
-lrb- 15.01.2009 -rrb- 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live motor mobil we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live spectrum listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
animals wild boars with hearty appetites are proving problematic in berlin , where food is plentiful .
listen to the audio feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
the secret behind germany 's unemployment rate remaining stagnant -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 07.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de labor market -pipe- 07.05.2009 the secret behind germany 's unemployment rate remaining stagnant großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the automobile industry faces eerily empty halls as working hours are slashed german businesses , hard-hit by the financial crisis , resort to a time-tested instrument : rather than fire employees , their working hours are reduced . germany 's economy is expected to shrink by 6 percent this year , according to both the government and leading economic institutes .
but the number of jobless has not skyrocketed , and that is due to the german practice of reduced working hours – not a new concept here , but routinely employed in crises like the 1970s oil embargo , and again after reunification in the early 1990s .
they are all deeply in the red : that is what germany 's leading businesses have in common these days when they look at their first quarter figures .
but rather than lay off valuable workers , they 've ordered reduced working hours .
more than a third of automaker daimler 's and roughly a quarter of bmw 's employees , for instance , are working reduced hours .
at chemical giant basf , more than 4,000 people work shorter hours , and another 3,000 are to join them in june .
production at printer heidelberger druck is down to 11 days a month . instrument to stabilize the job market about 1,4 million people worked shorter hours in april , says germany 's federal labour agency .
the labor market is stable as a result of these many shorter working hours , says agency chief frank-juerrgen weise .
employers revert to shorter working hours when the number of orders dwindles , but the firm wants to keep its skilled workers and specialists .
while the employers only pay wages for the reduced hours , they do continue to pay the full social security dues .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : hundreds-of-thousands manage to keep their jobs but work reduced hours benefits are available from germany 's labor agency for a maximum of 18 months .
workers without children , for instance , can expect 60 percent of their last net salary , families with children are granted seven percent more .
to top that , labour minister olaf scholz last week proposed taking over all social security payments from the companies after half a year , as well as extending the term of shorter working hours from 18 months to two years .
dieter hundt , president of the german employers ' federation bda , was initially opposed to extending to 24 months the option of reduced working hours .
but he welcomed the government 's plan .
" discarding all social security payments is extremely important for the companies , " he said after a meeting last week with scholz and michael sommer , head of the dgb labor federation .
here in germany , social security payments include old age insurance , jobless insurance and health and nursing care insurance – all in all , more than 20 percent of the gross pay package . supporting reduced working hours is expected to cost the federal labor agency about 500 million euros for 100,000 people per year .
critics fear abuse of labor office plans hilmar schneider , director of labor market policies at the institute for the future of labor , iza , is critical of the labor agency 's policy of taking over all social security payments after six months of reduced work . a firm could keep on an employee but reduce his hours to zero , he explains , making him de facto unemployed .
but that employee would still receive his full pay from the labor agency for 24 months . then , the employee could register as unemployed – and would again be eligible for 24 months of financial support .
firms could of course lay off workers , hilmar schneider says , but that is something the government is trying to prevent at all costs .
" with parliamentary elections in september , " the labour market expert says , " the media would be full of mass lay-offs in time for the election . "
danhong zhang / dagmar breitenbach / rob mudge send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de spring employment boost fails to materialize a much-hoped-for springtime jobs boost has failed to materialize , official german figures show .
-lrb- 30.04.2009 -rrb- economic institutes see hard times ahead leading german economic institutes say europe 's largest economy is caught up in the maelstrom of a global recession .
their forecast is even gloomier than the imf 's prediction for 2009 .
-lrb- 23.04.2009 -rrb- germany extends new car subsidy program german chancellor angela merkel 's grand coalition has agreed to boost subsidies for consumers who trade in their old cars for new ones from 1.5 billion euros to five billion euros -lrb- us $ 6.6 billion -rrb- .
-lrb- 08.04.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic listen here to more about " kurzarbeit " 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - news with in depth we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
art german photographer lala aufsberg 's work is a fascinating historical record of the 20th century .
watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
the secret behind germany 's unemployment rate remaining stagnant -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 02.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de labor market -pipe- 07.05.2009 the secret behind germany 's unemployment rate remaining stagnant großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the automobile industry faces eerily empty halls as working hours are slashed german businesses , hard-hit by the financial crisis , resort to a time-tested instrument : rather than fire employees , their working hours are reduced . germany 's economy is expected to shrink by 6 percent this year , according to both the government and leading economic institutes .
but the number of jobless has not skyrocketed , and that is due to the german practice of reduced working hours – not a new concept here , but routinely employed in crises like the 1970s oil embargo , and again after reunification in the early 1990s .
they are all deeply in the red : that is what germany 's leading businesses have in common these days when they look at their first quarter figures .
but rather than lay off valuable workers , they 've ordered reduced working hours .
more than a third of automaker daimler 's and roughly a quarter of bmw 's employees , for instance , are working reduced hours .
at chemical giant basf , more than 4,000 people work shorter hours , and another 3,000 are to join them in june .
production at printer heidelberger druck is down to 11 days a month . instrument to stabilize the job market about 1,4 million people worked shorter hours in april , says germany 's federal labour agency .
the labor market is stable as a result of these many shorter working hours , says agency chief frank-juerrgen weise .
employers revert to shorter working hours when the number of orders dwindles , but the firm wants to keep its skilled workers and specialists .
while the employers only pay wages for the reduced hours , they do continue to pay the full social security dues .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : hundreds-of-thousands manage to keep their jobs but work reduced hours benefits are available from germany 's labor agency for a maximum of 18 months .
workers without children , for instance , can expect 60 percent of their last net salary , families with children are granted seven percent more .
to top that , labour minister olaf scholz last week proposed taking over all social security payments from the companies after half a year , as well as extending the term of shorter working hours from 18 months to two years .
dieter hundt , president of the german employers ' federation bda , was initially opposed to extending to 24 months the option of reduced working hours .
but he welcomed the government 's plan .
" discarding all social security payments is extremely important for the companies , " he said after a meeting last week with scholz and michael sommer , head of the dgb labor federation .
here in germany , social security payments include old age insurance , jobless insurance and health and nursing care insurance – all in all , more than 20 percent of the gross pay package . supporting reduced working hours is expected to cost the federal labor agency about 500 million euros for 100,000 people per year .
critics fear abuse of labor office plans hilmar schneider , director of labor market policies at the institute for the future of labor , iza , is critical of the labor agency 's policy of taking over all social security payments after six months of reduced work . a firm could keep on an employee but reduce his hours to zero , he explains , making him de facto unemployed .
but that employee would still receive his full pay from the labor agency for 24 months . then , the employee could register as unemployed – and would again be eligible for 24 months of financial support .
firms could of course lay off workers , hilmar schneider says , but that is something the government is trying to prevent at all costs .
" with parliamentary elections in september , " the labour market expert says , " the media would be full of mass lay-offs in time for the election . "
danhong zhang / dagmar breitenbach / rob mudge send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de spring employment boost fails to materialize a much-hoped-for springtime jobs boost has failed to materialize , official german figures show .
-lrb- 30.04.2009 -rrb- economic institutes see hard times ahead leading german economic institutes say europe 's largest economy is caught up in the maelstrom of a global recession .
their forecast is even gloomier than the imf 's prediction for 2009 .
-lrb- 23.04.2009 -rrb- germany extends new car subsidy program german chancellor angela merkel 's grand coalition has agreed to boost subsidies for consumers who trade in their old cars for new ones from 1.5 billion euros to five billion euros -lrb- us $ 6.6 billion -rrb- .
-lrb- 08.04.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic listen here to more about " kurzarbeit " 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live in good shape we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live arts on the air listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
animals wild boars with hearty appetites are proving problematic in berlin , where food is plentiful .
listen to the audio feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
the secret behind germany 's unemployment rate remaining stagnant -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 15.09.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de labor market -pipe- 07.05.2009 the secret behind germany 's unemployment rate remaining stagnant großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the automobile industry faces eerily empty halls as working hours are slashed german businesses , hard-hit by the financial crisis , resort to a time-tested instrument : rather than fire employees , their working hours are reduced . germany 's economy is expected to shrink by 6 percent this year , according to both the government and leading economic institutes .
but the number of jobless has not skyrocketed , and that is due to the german practice of reduced working hours – not a new concept here , but routinely employed in crises like the 1970s oil embargo , and again after reunification in the early 1990s .
they are all deeply in the red : that is what germany 's leading businesses have in common these days when they look at their first quarter figures .
but rather than lay off valuable workers , they 've ordered reduced working hours .
more than a third of automaker daimler 's and roughly a quarter of bmw 's employees , for instance , are working reduced hours .
at chemical giant basf , more than 4,000 people work shorter hours , and another 3,000 are to join them in june .
production at printer heidelberger druck is down to 11 days a month . instrument to stabilize the job market about 1,4 million people worked shorter hours in april , says germany 's federal labour agency .
the labor market is stable as a result of these many shorter working hours , says agency chief frank-juerrgen weise .
employers revert to shorter working hours when the number of orders dwindles , but the firm wants to keep its skilled workers and specialists .
while the employers only pay wages for the reduced hours , they do continue to pay the full social security dues .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : hundreds-of-thousands manage to keep their jobs but work reduced hours benefits are available from germany 's labor agency for a maximum of 18 months .
workers without children , for instance , can expect 60 percent of their last net salary , families with children are granted seven percent more .
to top that , labour minister olaf scholz last week proposed taking over all social security payments from the companies after half a year , as well as extending the term of shorter working hours from 18 months to two years .
dieter hundt , president of the german employers ' federation bda , was initially opposed to extending to 24 months the option of reduced working hours .
but he welcomed the government 's plan .
" discarding all social security payments is extremely important for the companies , " he said after a meeting last week with scholz and michael sommer , head of the dgb labor federation .
here in germany , social security payments include old age insurance , jobless insurance and health and nursing care insurance – all in all , more than 20 percent of the gross pay package . supporting reduced working hours is expected to cost the federal labor agency about 500 million euros for 100,000 people per year .
critics fear abuse of labor office plans hilmar schneider , director of labor market policies at the institute for the future of labor , iza , is critical of the labor agency 's policy of taking over all social security payments after six months of reduced work . a firm could keep on an employee but reduce his hours to zero , he explains , making him de facto unemployed .
but that employee would still receive his full pay from the labor agency for 24 months . then , the employee could register as unemployed – and would again be eligible for 24 months of financial support .
firms could of course lay off workers , hilmar schneider says , but that is something the government is trying to prevent at all costs .
" with parliamentary elections in september , " the labour market expert says , " the media would be full of mass lay-offs in time for the election . "
danhong zhang / dagmar breitenbach / rob mudge send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de spring employment boost fails to materialize a much-hoped-for springtime jobs boost has failed to materialize , official german figures show .
-lrb- 30.04.2009 -rrb- economic institutes see hard times ahead leading german economic institutes say europe 's largest economy is caught up in the maelstrom of a global recession .
their forecast is even gloomier than the imf 's prediction for 2009 .
-lrb- 23.04.2009 -rrb- germany extends new car subsidy program german chancellor angela merkel 's grand coalition has agreed to boost subsidies for consumers who trade in their old cars for new ones from 1.5 billion euros to five billion euros -lrb- us $ 6.6 billion -rrb- .
-lrb- 08.04.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic listen here to more about " kurzarbeit " feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live pulse listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
the secret behind germany 's unemployment rate remaining stagnant -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 28.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de labor market -pipe- 07.05.2009 the secret behind germany 's unemployment rate remaining stagnant großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the automobile industry faces eerily empty halls as working hours are slashed german businesses , hard-hit by the financial crisis , resort to a time-tested instrument : rather than fire employees , their working hours are reduced . germany 's economy is expected to shrink by 6 percent this year , according to both the government and leading economic institutes .
but the number of jobless has not skyrocketed , and that is due to the german practice of reduced working hours – not a new concept here , but routinely employed in crises like the 1970s oil embargo , and again after reunification in the early 1990s .
they are all deeply in the red : that is what germany 's leading businesses have in common these days when they look at their first quarter figures .
but rather than lay off valuable workers , they 've ordered reduced working hours .
more than a third of automaker daimler 's and roughly a quarter of bmw 's employees , for instance , are working reduced hours .
at chemical giant basf , more than 4,000 people work shorter hours , and another 3,000 are to join them in june .
production at printer heidelberger druck is down to 11 days a month . instrument to stabilize the job market about 1,4 million people worked shorter hours in april , says germany 's federal labour agency .
the labor market is stable as a result of these many shorter working hours , says agency chief frank-juerrgen weise .
employers revert to shorter working hours when the number of orders dwindles , but the firm wants to keep its skilled workers and specialists .
while the employers only pay wages for the reduced hours , they do continue to pay the full social security dues .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : hundreds-of-thousands manage to keep their jobs but work reduced hours benefits are available from germany 's labor agency for a maximum of 18 months .
workers without children , for instance , can expect 60 percent of their last net salary , families with children are granted seven percent more .
to top that , labour minister olaf scholz last week proposed taking over all social security payments from the companies after half a year , as well as extending the term of shorter working hours from 18 months to two years .
dieter hundt , president of the german employers ' federation bda , was initially opposed to extending to 24 months the option of reduced working hours .
but he welcomed the government 's plan .
" discarding all social security payments is extremely important for the companies , " he said after a meeting last week with scholz and michael sommer , head of the dgb labor federation .
here in germany , social security payments include old age insurance , jobless insurance and health and nursing care insurance – all in all , more than 20 percent of the gross pay package . supporting reduced working hours is expected to cost the federal labor agency about 500 million euros for 100,000 people per year .
critics fear abuse of labor office plans hilmar schneider , director of labor market policies at the institute for the future of labor , iza , is critical of the labor agency 's policy of taking over all social security payments after six months of reduced work . a firm could keep on an employee but reduce his hours to zero , he explains , making him de facto unemployed .
but that employee would still receive his full pay from the labor agency for 24 months . then , the employee could register as unemployed – and would again be eligible for 24 months of financial support .
firms could of course lay off workers , hilmar schneider says , but that is something the government is trying to prevent at all costs .
" with parliamentary elections in september , " the labour market expert says , " the media would be full of mass lay-offs in time for the election . "
danhong zhang / dagmar breitenbach / rob mudge send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de spring employment boost fails to materialize a much-hoped-for springtime jobs boost has failed to materialize , official german figures show .
-lrb- 30.04.2009 -rrb- economic institutes see hard times ahead leading german economic institutes say europe 's largest economy is caught up in the maelstrom of a global recession .
their forecast is even gloomier than the imf 's prediction for 2009 .
-lrb- 23.04.2009 -rrb- germany extends new car subsidy program german chancellor angela merkel 's grand coalition has agreed to boost subsidies for consumers who trade in their old cars for new ones from 1.5 billion euros to five billion euros -lrb- us $ 6.6 billion -rrb- .
-lrb- 08.04.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic listen here to more about " kurzarbeit " feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live arts on the air listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
the secret behind germany 's unemployment rate remaining stagnant -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.12.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de labor market -pipe- 07.05.2009 the secret behind germany 's unemployment rate remaining stagnant großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the automobile industry faces eerily empty halls as working hours are slashed german businesses , hard-hit by the financial crisis , resort to a time-tested instrument : rather than fire employees , their working hours are reduced . germany 's economy is expected to shrink by 6 percent this year , according to both the government and leading economic institutes .
but the number of jobless has not skyrocketed , and that is due to the german practice of reduced working hours – not a new concept here , but routinely employed in crises like the 1970s oil embargo , and again after reunification in the early 1990s .
they are all deeply in the red : that is what germany 's leading businesses have in common these days when they look at their first quarter figures .
but rather than lay off valuable workers , they 've ordered reduced working hours .
more than a third of automaker daimler 's and roughly a quarter of bmw 's employees , for instance , are working reduced hours .
at chemical giant basf , more than 4,000 people work shorter hours , and another 3,000 are to join them in june .
production at printer heidelberger druck is down to 11 days a month . instrument to stabilize the job market about 1,4 million people worked shorter hours in april , says germany 's federal labour agency .
the labor market is stable as a result of these many shorter working hours , says agency chief frank-juerrgen weise .
employers revert to shorter working hours when the number of orders dwindles , but the firm wants to keep its skilled workers and specialists .
while the employers only pay wages for the reduced hours , they do continue to pay the full social security dues .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : hundreds-of-thousands manage to keep their jobs but work reduced hours benefits are available from germany 's labor agency for a maximum of 18 months .
workers without children , for instance , can expect 60 percent of their last net salary , families with children are granted seven percent more .
to top that , labour minister olaf scholz last week proposed taking over all social security payments from the companies after half a year , as well as extending the term of shorter working hours from 18 months to two years .
dieter hundt , president of the german employers ' federation bda , was initially opposed to extending to 24 months the option of reduced working hours .
but he welcomed the government 's plan .
" discarding all social security payments is extremely important for the companies , " he said after a meeting last week with scholz and michael sommer , head of the dgb labor federation .
here in germany , social security payments include old age insurance , jobless insurance and health and nursing care insurance – all in all , more than 20 percent of the gross pay package . supporting reduced working hours is expected to cost the federal labor agency about 500 million euros for 100,000 people per year .
critics fear abuse of labor office plans hilmar schneider , director of labor market policies at the institute for the future of labor , iza , is critical of the labor agency 's policy of taking over all social security payments after six months of reduced work . a firm could keep on an employee but reduce his hours to zero , he explains , making him de facto unemployed .
but that employee would still receive his full pay from the labor agency for 24 months . then , the employee could register as unemployed – and would again be eligible for 24 months of financial support .
firms could of course lay off workers , hilmar schneider says , but that is something the government is trying to prevent at all costs .
" with parliamentary elections in september , " the labour market expert says , " the media would be full of mass lay-offs in time for the election . "
danhong zhang / dagmar breitenbach / rob mudge send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de spring employment boost fails to materialize a much-hoped-for springtime jobs boost has failed to materialize , official german figures show .
-lrb- 30.04.2009 -rrb- economic institutes see hard times ahead leading german economic institutes say europe 's largest economy is caught up in the maelstrom of a global recession .
their forecast is even gloomier than the imf 's prediction for 2009 .
-lrb- 23.04.2009 -rrb- germany extends new car subsidy program german chancellor angela merkel 's grand coalition has agreed to boost subsidies for consumers who trade in their old cars for new ones from 1.5 billion euros to five billion euros -lrb- us $ 6.6 billion -rrb- .
-lrb- 08.04.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic listen here to more about " kurzarbeit " feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live radio d listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
travel passau is called the three river city , but it is just as famous for its baroque splendor .
passau - baroque facades and vibrant arts watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
the secret behind germany 's unemployment rate remaining stagnant -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 26.10.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de labor market -pipe- 07.05.2009 the secret behind germany 's unemployment rate remaining stagnant großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the automobile industry faces eerily empty halls as working hours are slashed german businesses , hard-hit by the financial crisis , resort to a time-tested instrument : rather than fire employees , their working hours are reduced . germany 's economy is expected to shrink by 6 percent this year , according to both the government and leading economic institutes .
but the number of jobless has not skyrocketed , and that is due to the german practice of reduced working hours – not a new concept here , but routinely employed in crises like the 1970s oil embargo , and again after reunification in the early 1990s .
they are all deeply in the red : that is what germany 's leading businesses have in common these days when they look at their first quarter figures .
but rather than lay off valuable workers , they 've ordered reduced working hours .
more than a third of automaker daimler 's and roughly a quarter of bmw 's employees , for instance , are working reduced hours .
at chemical giant basf , more than 4,000 people work shorter hours , and another 3,000 are to join them in june .
production at printer heidelberger druck is down to 11 days a month . instrument to stabilize the job market about 1,4 million people worked shorter hours in april , says germany 's federal labour agency .
the labor market is stable as a result of these many shorter working hours , says agency chief frank-juerrgen weise .
employers revert to shorter working hours when the number of orders dwindles , but the firm wants to keep its skilled workers and specialists .
while the employers only pay wages for the reduced hours , they do continue to pay the full social security dues .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : hundreds-of-thousands manage to keep their jobs but work reduced hours benefits are available from germany 's labor agency for a maximum of 18 months .
workers without children , for instance , can expect 60 percent of their last net salary , families with children are granted seven percent more .
to top that , labour minister olaf scholz last week proposed taking over all social security payments from the companies after half a year , as well as extending the term of shorter working hours from 18 months to two years .
dieter hundt , president of the german employers ' federation bda , was initially opposed to extending to 24 months the option of reduced working hours .
but he welcomed the government 's plan .
" discarding all social security payments is extremely important for the companies , " he said after a meeting last week with scholz and michael sommer , head of the dgb labor federation .
here in germany , social security payments include old age insurance , jobless insurance and health and nursing care insurance – all in all , more than 20 percent of the gross pay package . supporting reduced working hours is expected to cost the federal labor agency about 500 million euros for 100,000 people per year .
critics fear abuse of labor office plans hilmar schneider , director of labor market policies at the institute for the future of labor , iza , is critical of the labor agency 's policy of taking over all social security payments after six months of reduced work . a firm could keep on an employee but reduce his hours to zero , he explains , making him de facto unemployed .
but that employee would still receive his full pay from the labor agency for 24 months . then , the employee could register as unemployed – and would again be eligible for 24 months of financial support .
firms could of course lay off workers , hilmar schneider says , but that is something the government is trying to prevent at all costs .
" with parliamentary elections in september , " the labour market expert says , " the media would be full of mass lay-offs in time for the election . "
danhong zhang / dagmar breitenbach / rob mudge send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de spring employment boost fails to materialize a much-hoped-for springtime jobs boost has failed to materialize , official german figures show .
-lrb- 30.04.2009 -rrb- economic institutes see hard times ahead leading german economic institutes say europe 's largest economy is caught up in the maelstrom of a global recession .
their forecast is even gloomier than the imf 's prediction for 2009 .
-lrb- 23.04.2009 -rrb- germany extends new car subsidy program german chancellor angela merkel 's grand coalition has agreed to boost subsidies for consumers who trade in their old cars for new ones from 1.5 billion euros to five billion euros -lrb- us $ 6.6 billion -rrb- .
-lrb- 08.04.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic listen here to more about " kurzarbeit " feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live made in germany we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live pulse listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
european central bank cuts rates to record low -pipe- nrs-import -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 26.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de economy -pipe- 07.05.2009 european central bank cuts rates to record low großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : jean-claude trichet , the ecb president .
the european central bank has cut its main interest rate to a record low one percent .
the cut was the fourth this year by the frankfurt-based bank , and it may not be the last . ecb president jean-claude trichet announced the cut on thursday , saying the bank was planning to shore up financial market confidence and boost liquidity by extending the period over which the ecb lends funds to banks at fixed rates from 6 months to 12 months and purchasing bonds .
the quarter point rate cut was the fourth this year by the frankfurt-based bank , which sets monetary policy for countries that share the euro currency .
trichet said that inflationary pressures had diminished in the economic downturn , but that the euro-zone economy appeared to be stabilising .
" the latest economic data suggest tentative signs of a stabilisation at very low levels after a first quarter which was significantly weaker than expected , " he told the news conference after the bank 's decision .
" the world economy including the eurozone is still undergoing a severe downturn with the prospect of both external and domestic demand remaining very weak over 2009 before gradually recovering in the course of 2010 , " trichet said .
he also said inflation expectations were consistent with keeping it in line with the bank 's target of price growth at or just below 2 percent .
eurozone inflation is at a record low of 0.6 percent and although some economic data are showing signs of stabilisation , the european commission this week forecast the eurozone 's economy would shrink by 4.0 percent this year .
the ecb has cut rates from 4.25 percent since last october .
trichet indicated that thursday 's rate cut was not necessarily the last . ch / pfd , rtr / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de eu agrees to boost aid to struggling member countries the european union has agreed to double the amount of a bailout fund to 50 billion euros -lrb- $ 67 billion -rrb- .
the fund was created to provide emergency loans to eastern eu countries hit hard by the financial crisis .
-lrb- 05.05.2009 -rrb- japanese pm lauds swift german reaction to financial crisis japanese prime minister taro aso was in berlin on tuesday as part of a three-day trip to europe .
the global economic downturn was on aso 's mind as he met with german chancellor angela merkel .
-lrb- 05.05.2009 -rrb- spring employment boost fails to materialize a much-hoped-for springtime jobs boost has failed to materialize , official german figures show .
-lrb- 30.04.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
european central bank cuts rates to record low -pipe- nrs-import -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.03.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de economy -pipe- 07.05.2009 european central bank cuts rates to record low großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : jean-claude trichet , the ecb president .
the european central bank has cut its main interest rate to a record low one percent .
the cut was the fourth this year by the frankfurt-based bank , and it may not be the last . ecb president jean-claude trichet announced the cut on thursday , saying the bank was planning to shore up financial market confidence and boost liquidity by extending the period over which the ecb lends funds to banks at fixed rates from 6 months to 12 months and purchasing bonds .
the quarter point rate cut was the fourth this year by the frankfurt-based bank , which sets monetary policy for countries that share the euro currency .
trichet said that inflationary pressures had diminished in the economic downturn , but that the euro-zone economy appeared to be stabilising .
" the latest economic data suggest tentative signs of a stabilisation at very low levels after a first quarter which was significantly weaker than expected , " he told the news conference after the bank 's decision .
" the world economy including the eurozone is still undergoing a severe downturn with the prospect of both external and domestic demand remaining very weak over 2009 before gradually recovering in the course of 2010 , " trichet said .
he also said inflation expectations were consistent with keeping it in line with the bank 's target of price growth at or just below 2 percent .
eurozone inflation is at a record low of 0.6 percent and although some economic data are showing signs of stabilisation , the european commission this week forecast the eurozone 's economy would shrink by 4.0 percent this year .
the ecb has cut rates from 4.25 percent since last october .
trichet indicated that thursday 's rate cut was not necessarily the last . ch / pfd , rtr / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de eu agrees to boost aid to struggling member countries the european union has agreed to double the amount of a bailout fund to 50 billion euros -lrb- $ 67 billion -rrb- .
the fund was created to provide emergency loans to eastern eu countries hit hard by the financial crisis .
-lrb- 05.05.2009 -rrb- japanese pm lauds swift german reaction to financial crisis japanese prime minister taro aso was in berlin on tuesday as part of a three-day trip to europe .
the global economic downturn was on aso 's mind as he met with german chancellor angela merkel .
-lrb- 05.05.2009 -rrb- spring employment boost fails to materialize a much-hoped-for springtime jobs boost has failed to materialize , official german figures show .
-lrb- 30.04.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
european central bank cuts rates to record low -pipe- nrs-import -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 10.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de economy -pipe- 07.05.2009 european central bank cuts rates to record low großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : jean-claude trichet , the ecb president .
the european central bank has cut its main interest rate to a record low one percent .
the cut was the fourth this year by the frankfurt-based bank , and it may not be the last . ecb president jean-claude trichet announced the cut on thursday , saying the bank was planning to shore up financial market confidence and boost liquidity by extending the period over which the ecb lends funds to banks at fixed rates from 6 months to 12 months and purchasing bonds .
the quarter point rate cut was the fourth this year by the frankfurt-based bank , which sets monetary policy for countries that share the euro currency .
trichet said that inflationary pressures had diminished in the economic downturn , but that the euro-zone economy appeared to be stabilising .
" the latest economic data suggest tentative signs of a stabilisation at very low levels after a first quarter which was significantly weaker than expected , " he told the news conference after the bank 's decision .
" the world economy including the eurozone is still undergoing a severe downturn with the prospect of both external and domestic demand remaining very weak over 2009 before gradually recovering in the course of 2010 , " trichet said .
he also said inflation expectations were consistent with keeping it in line with the bank 's target of price growth at or just below 2 percent .
eurozone inflation is at a record low of 0.6 percent and although some economic data are showing signs of stabilisation , the european commission this week forecast the eurozone 's economy would shrink by 4.0 percent this year .
the ecb has cut rates from 4.25 percent since last october .
trichet indicated that thursday 's rate cut was not necessarily the last . ch / pfd , rtr / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de eu agrees to boost aid to struggling member countries the european union has agreed to double the amount of a bailout fund to 50 billion euros -lrb- $ 67 billion -rrb- .
the fund was created to provide emergency loans to eastern eu countries hit hard by the financial crisis .
-lrb- 05.05.2009 -rrb- japanese pm lauds swift german reaction to financial crisis japanese prime minister taro aso was in berlin on tuesday as part of a three-day trip to europe .
the global economic downturn was on aso 's mind as he met with german chancellor angela merkel .
-lrb- 05.05.2009 -rrb- spring employment boost fails to materialize a much-hoped-for springtime jobs boost has failed to materialize , official german figures show .
-lrb- 30.04.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
european central bank cuts rates to record low -pipe- nrs-import -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 30.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de economy -pipe- 07.05.2009 european central bank cuts rates to record low großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : jean-claude trichet , the ecb president .
the european central bank has cut its main interest rate to a record low one percent .
the cut was the fourth this year by the frankfurt-based bank , and it may not be the last . ecb president jean-claude trichet announced the cut on thursday , saying the bank was planning to shore up financial market confidence and boost liquidity by extending the period over which the ecb lends funds to banks at fixed rates from 6 months to 12 months and purchasing bonds .
the quarter point rate cut was the fourth this year by the frankfurt-based bank , which sets monetary policy for countries that share the euro currency .
trichet said that inflationary pressures had diminished in the economic downturn , but that the euro-zone economy appeared to be stabilising .
" the latest economic data suggest tentative signs of a stabilisation at very low levels after a first quarter which was significantly weaker than expected , " he told the news conference after the bank 's decision .
" the world economy including the eurozone is still undergoing a severe downturn with the prospect of both external and domestic demand remaining very weak over 2009 before gradually recovering in the course of 2010 , " trichet said .
he also said inflation expectations were consistent with keeping it in line with the bank 's target of price growth at or just below 2 percent .
eurozone inflation is at a record low of 0.6 percent and although some economic data are showing signs of stabilisation , the european commission this week forecast the eurozone 's economy would shrink by 4.0 percent this year .
the ecb has cut rates from 4.25 percent since last october .
trichet indicated that thursday 's rate cut was not necessarily the last . ch / pfd , rtr / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de eu agrees to boost aid to struggling member countries the european union has agreed to double the amount of a bailout fund to 50 billion euros -lrb- $ 67 billion -rrb- .
the fund was created to provide emergency loans to eastern eu countries hit hard by the financial crisis .
-lrb- 05.05.2009 -rrb- japanese pm lauds swift german reaction to financial crisis japanese prime minister taro aso was in berlin on tuesday as part of a three-day trip to europe .
the global economic downturn was on aso 's mind as he met with german chancellor angela merkel .
-lrb- 05.05.2009 -rrb- spring employment boost fails to materialize a much-hoped-for springtime jobs boost has failed to materialize , official german figures show .
-lrb- 30.04.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
european central bank cuts rates to record low -pipe- nrs-import -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 19.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de economy -pipe- 07.05.2009 european central bank cuts rates to record low großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : jean-claude trichet , the ecb president .
the european central bank has cut its main interest rate to a record low one percent .
the cut was the fourth this year by the frankfurt-based bank , and it may not be the last . ecb president jean-claude trichet announced the cut on thursday , saying the bank was planning to shore up financial market confidence and boost liquidity by extending the period over which the ecb lends funds to banks at fixed rates from 6 months to 12 months and purchasing bonds .
the quarter point rate cut was the fourth this year by the frankfurt-based bank , which sets monetary policy for countries that share the euro currency .
trichet said that inflationary pressures had diminished in the economic downturn , but that the euro-zone economy appeared to be stabilising .
" the latest economic data suggest tentative signs of a stabilisation at very low levels after a first quarter which was significantly weaker than expected , " he told the news conference after the bank 's decision .
" the world economy including the eurozone is still undergoing a severe downturn with the prospect of both external and domestic demand remaining very weak over 2009 before gradually recovering in the course of 2010 , " trichet said .
he also said inflation expectations were consistent with keeping it in line with the bank 's target of price growth at or just below 2 percent .
eurozone inflation is at a record low of 0.6 percent and although some economic data are showing signs of stabilisation , the european commission this week forecast the eurozone 's economy would shrink by 4.0 percent this year .
the ecb has cut rates from 4.25 percent since last october .
trichet indicated that thursday 's rate cut was not necessarily the last . ch / pfd , rtr / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de eu agrees to boost aid to struggling member countries the european union has agreed to double the amount of a bailout fund to 50 billion euros -lrb- $ 67 billion -rrb- .
the fund was created to provide emergency loans to eastern eu countries hit hard by the financial crisis .
-lrb- 05.05.2009 -rrb- japanese pm lauds swift german reaction to financial crisis japanese prime minister taro aso was in berlin on tuesday as part of a three-day trip to europe .
the global economic downturn was on aso 's mind as he met with german chancellor angela merkel .
-lrb- 05.05.2009 -rrb- spring employment boost fails to materialize a much-hoped-for springtime jobs boost has failed to materialize , official german figures show .
-lrb- 30.04.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
european central bank cuts rates to record low -pipe- nrs-import -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 14.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de economy -pipe- 07.05.2009 european central bank cuts rates to record low großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : jean-claude trichet , the ecb president .
the european central bank has cut its main interest rate to a record low one percent .
the cut was the fourth this year by the frankfurt-based bank , and it may not be the last . ecb president jean-claude trichet announced the cut on thursday , saying the bank was planning to shore up financial market confidence and boost liquidity by extending the period over which the ecb lends funds to banks at fixed rates from 6 months to 12 months and purchasing bonds .
the quarter point rate cut was the fourth this year by the frankfurt-based bank , which sets monetary policy for countries that share the euro currency .
trichet said that inflationary pressures had diminished in the economic downturn , but that the euro-zone economy appeared to be stabilising .
" the latest economic data suggest tentative signs of a stabilisation at very low levels after a first quarter which was significantly weaker than expected , " he told the news conference after the bank 's decision .
" the world economy including the eurozone is still undergoing a severe downturn with the prospect of both external and domestic demand remaining very weak over 2009 before gradually recovering in the course of 2010 , " trichet said .
he also said inflation expectations were consistent with keeping it in line with the bank 's target of price growth at or just below 2 percent .
eurozone inflation is at a record low of 0.6 percent and although some economic data are showing signs of stabilisation , the european commission this week forecast the eurozone 's economy would shrink by 4.0 percent this year .
the ecb has cut rates from 4.25 percent since last october .
trichet indicated that thursday 's rate cut was not necessarily the last . ch / pfd , rtr / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de eu agrees to boost aid to struggling member countries the european union has agreed to double the amount of a bailout fund to 50 billion euros -lrb- $ 67 billion -rrb- .
the fund was created to provide emergency loans to eastern eu countries hit hard by the financial crisis .
-lrb- 05.05.2009 -rrb- japanese pm lauds swift german reaction to financial crisis japanese prime minister taro aso was in berlin on tuesday as part of a three-day trip to europe .
the global economic downturn was on aso 's mind as he met with german chancellor angela merkel .
-lrb- 05.05.2009 -rrb- spring employment boost fails to materialize a much-hoped-for springtime jobs boost has failed to materialize , official german figures show .
-lrb- 30.04.2009 -rrb- 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
european central bank cuts rates to record low -pipe- nrs-import -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 23.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de economy -pipe- 07.05.2009 european central bank cuts rates to record low großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : jean-claude trichet , the ecb president .
the european central bank has cut its main interest rate to a record low one percent .
the cut was the fourth this year by the frankfurt-based bank , and it may not be the last . ecb president jean-claude trichet announced the cut on thursday , saying the bank was planning to shore up financial market confidence and boost liquidity by extending the period over which the ecb lends funds to banks at fixed rates from 6 months to 12 months and purchasing bonds .
the quarter point rate cut was the fourth this year by the frankfurt-based bank , which sets monetary policy for countries that share the euro currency .
trichet said that inflationary pressures had diminished in the economic downturn , but that the euro-zone economy appeared to be stabilising .
" the latest economic data suggest tentative signs of a stabilisation at very low levels after a first quarter which was significantly weaker than expected , " he told the news conference after the bank 's decision .
" the world economy including the eurozone is still undergoing a severe downturn with the prospect of both external and domestic demand remaining very weak over 2009 before gradually recovering in the course of 2010 , " trichet said .
he also said inflation expectations were consistent with keeping it in line with the bank 's target of price growth at or just below 2 percent .
eurozone inflation is at a record low of 0.6 percent and although some economic data are showing signs of stabilisation , the european commission this week forecast the eurozone 's economy would shrink by 4.0 percent this year .
the ecb has cut rates from 4.25 percent since last october .
trichet indicated that thursday 's rate cut was not necessarily the last . ch / pfd , rtr / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de eu agrees to boost aid to struggling member countries the european union has agreed to double the amount of a bailout fund to 50 billion euros -lrb- $ 67 billion -rrb- .
the fund was created to provide emergency loans to eastern eu countries hit hard by the financial crisis .
-lrb- 05.05.2009 -rrb- japanese pm lauds swift german reaction to financial crisis japanese prime minister taro aso was in berlin on tuesday as part of a three-day trip to europe .
the global economic downturn was on aso 's mind as he met with german chancellor angela merkel .
-lrb- 05.05.2009 -rrb- spring employment boost fails to materialize a much-hoped-for springtime jobs boost has failed to materialize , official german figures show .
-lrb- 30.04.2009 -rrb- 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
doubts remain over medvedev 's power and policy after first year in office -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.12.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de russia -pipe- 07.05.2009 doubts remain over medvedev 's power and policy after first year in office großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : medvedev has had a busy first 12 months in power russian president dmitry medvedev marks the one-year anniversary of his coming to power on may 7 .
twelve months on , questions and doubts still remain over his legitimacy and his policies . global opinion was divided when dmitry medvedev became russian president on may 7 last year .
some saw the new leader as a puppet of vladimir putin , his predecessor and the man who medvedev had served loyally throughout his two terms in office .
others saw the incoming president as a man who could drive russia down a more liberal and democratic road , and reverse decades of state oppression .
one year on – a year during which medvedev has waged his first war and has been thrust into the forefront of the worst global economic crisis for over 80 years – questions and doubts still remain over whether medvedev is really the man leading russia and if he is , whether he is the right man to reform his nation .
so to what extent has medvedev been successful in attempting to answer those questions leveled against him ?
" from medvedev 's point of view , it 's probably been quite a successful year , " sam greene , the deputy director for operations at the carnegie endowment for international peace in moscow , told deutsche welle .
" this dual system of government which was put together – with medvedev as president and putin as prime minister – has not been without its problems but it 's worked relatively well .
it 's kept the ruling elite relatively cohesive and both medvedev and putin have remained popular politically and are seen as relatively legitimate both at home and internationally .
so it has been a success story for the experiment – which is what this presidency with putin as prime minister is ; a huge political experiment .
" but from a policy perspective , in terms of the reforms that medvedev talked about prior to becoming president ; strengthening the rule of law , diversifying the economy – there really have n't been any policy successes , " he added .
" his rhetoric has been very good .
he speaks very ably on the rule of law , on democracy , on economic liberalism but there was a lot of good rhetoric from putin on these issues for eight years and we did n't see any progress in that direction from him either . "
criticism stems from lack of reform progress much of the analysis of medvedev 's first year in power focuses on these promised reforms and the progress – or lack thereof – that russia has made in the spheres of democracy , human rights and press freedom .
according to professor margot light , a russia expert at the center for the study of global governance at the london school of economics , medvedev has fallen short of the optimists ' expectations .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : medvedev was initially against khodorkovsky 's second trial " there have been many words but very few deeds , " she said .
" medvedev came to power with everyone saying that he was far more liberal than putin .
in fact there has been very little sign of this .
it 's only been in the last couple of weeks that he 's started to talk the liberal talk , by giving an interview to an opposition newspaper , for example .
but apart from that there have been very little progress .
there has been the second trial of -lrb- jailed russian oil oligarch mikhail -rrb- khodorkovsky , even though medvedev himself seemed to be against it ; the electronic media is no freer than it was before he came to power and the non-governmental organizations are still having a tough time so there a very few signs that he has made much progress on the democratization front . "
meanwhile , amnesty international declared on the president 's first anniversary that little had been done to improve human rights in russia since he came to power .
in a statement released on thursday , amnesty said that in some areas the situation has deteriorated despite initial improvements , specifically in relation to attacks against lawyers , journalists and opposition activists which it said were on the rise .
sam greene agrees .
" the situation with the press has n't got any better , in fact in some cases it has actually gotten worse , " he said .
" we 've seen more violence against the press .
this is not state-sponsored violence but it 's part of the current climate and it is part of the responsibility of the state to improve the atmosphere and to make clear that violence against the media will not be tolerated .
" in terms of democracy , there was some talk about reforms to the electoral laws but they 've been slow in coming , " he added .
" we saw municipal elections around the country in which the ruling party continued to dominate , continued to rely on administrative resources and its ability to manipulate the system .
we saw this very clearly in the recent mayoral elections in sochi just like month . "
leadership partners still hugely popular in russia despite these criticisms , neither medvedev nor putin has suffered a serious reversal in popularity within the populace .
in fact , both retain huge support within russia .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : medvedev is gaining the kind of star status putin enjoys " medvedev enjoys very high ratings but the problem has always been that russians appear to prefer order to justice , " light said .
" russians are in favor of tough measures if they believe that those tough measures actually make the country more orderly .
so the president and putin still enjoy enormous support from the population . "
sam greene admits that medvedev and putin may have seen a minor dip in popularity but this is mainly due to the current economic crisis , which has seen unemployment in russia increase and income decrease , and not because of any democratic or liberal failures .
but greene believes that the population does n't hold the leadership partners responsible for its economic woes .
“ the people do n't blame medvedev and putin for these problems nor do they really expect the government or medvedev to be able to do much about them , " he said .
" the people are quite pragmatic , if not cynical , about the russian government 's ability to deal with this crisis . "
while medvedev 's polices have been increasingly scrutinized since he came to power , the partnership agreement struck between the president and his prime minister has also come under close inspection during this first year .
questions remain over who really is the boss bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the partnership has to and will endure , say experts the state of the two men 's relationship has been the subject of intense speculation lately as medvedev has grown into his role and repeated reports of an imminent split between the two have begun to circulate .
but both sam greene and margot light believe the partnership will endure .
" i think there was a very clear arrangement between the two of them ahead of their presidential election under which it was agreed that they were playing on the same team and playing the same role which was to maintain the outward legitimacy and stability of the political system and to mediate conflict between the various groups in the elite , " greene said .
" i would n't expect them to work at cross purposes unless there was a real split between the powerful elite in the country .
there seems to be a broad consensus that this current system needs to continue so i think the relationship between medvedev and putin will remain stable .
the only thing that 's changed is that medvedev has become a bit more comfortable in the position , has begun to understand what he can and can not do and become more confident with his rhetoric and his public persona . "
" there have been lots of attempts to find cracks between them , " light added .
" i think it 's fanciful .
i see no cracks between them .
if medvedev was there just to hold the place for putin until he could run again , the danger was always that medvedev would like the taste of power and decide he wanted to keep it for himself .
i see no sign that this has happened – yet , at any rate .
" however , internationally , medvedev is still seen very much as an instrument of putin 's policy , " light concluded .
" although he fulfills all the roles the constitution affords to the president , i still think there is a very strong feeling internationally that putin is making the decisions and medvedev is simply doing his bidding . "
author : nick amies editor chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de pro-kremlin candidate wins sochi mayoral poll amid claims of fraud amid claims of fraud , anatoly pakhomov , the pro-kremlin candidate in mayoral polls for the russian city of sochi , won a landslide victory in an election seen as a test of the political climate under president medvedev .
-lrb- 27.04.2009 -rrb- critics call putin treason bill means to quash opposition human rights organizations have criticized a new bill that would abolish jury trials for people suspected of treason , hostage-taking , organizing mass disturbances and several other serious crimes .
-lrb- 18.12.2008 -rrb- opinion : russia 's power duo offers tenuous political stability it 's an action-packed week in russian politics with dmitry medvedev and vladimir putin taking up their respective offices .
yet everything is not as rosy as it might appear , says deutsche welle 's ingo mannteufel .
-lrb- 05.05.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
doubts remain over medvedev 's power and policy after first year in office -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 26.03.2011 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de russia -pipe- 07.05.2009 doubts remain over medvedev 's power and policy after first year in office großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : medvedev has had a busy first 12 months in power russian president dmitry medvedev marks the one-year anniversary of his coming to power on may 7 .
twelve months on , questions and doubts still remain over his legitimacy and his policies . global opinion was divided when dmitry medvedev became russian president on may 7 last year .
some saw the new leader as a puppet of vladimir putin , his predecessor and the man who medvedev had served loyally throughout his two terms in office .
others saw the incoming president as a man who could drive russia down a more liberal and democratic road , and reverse decades of state oppression .
one year on – a year during which medvedev has waged his first war and has been thrust into the forefront of the worst global economic crisis for over 80 years – questions and doubts still remain over whether medvedev is really the man leading russia and if he is , whether he is the right man to reform his nation .
so to what extent has medvedev been successful in attempting to answer those questions leveled against him ?
" from medvedev 's point of view , it 's probably been quite a successful year , " sam greene , the deputy director for operations at the carnegie endowment for international peace in moscow , told deutsche welle .
" this dual system of government which was put together – with medvedev as president and putin as prime minister – has not been without its problems but it 's worked relatively well .
it 's kept the ruling elite relatively cohesive and both medvedev and putin have remained popular politically and are seen as relatively legitimate both at home and internationally .
so it has been a success story for the experiment – which is what this presidency with putin as prime minister is ; a huge political experiment .
" but from a policy perspective , in terms of the reforms that medvedev talked about prior to becoming president ; strengthening the rule of law , diversifying the economy – there really have n't been any policy successes , " he added .
" his rhetoric has been very good .
he speaks very ably on the rule of law , on democracy , on economic liberalism but there was a lot of good rhetoric from putin on these issues for eight years and we did n't see any progress in that direction from him either . "
criticism stems from lack of reform progress much of the analysis of medvedev 's first year in power focuses on these promised reforms and the progress – or lack thereof – that russia has made in the spheres of democracy , human rights and press freedom .
according to professor margot light , a russia expert at the center for the study of global governance at the london school of economics , medvedev has fallen short of the optimists ' expectations .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : medvedev was initially against khodorkovsky 's second trial " there have been many words but very few deeds , " she said .
" medvedev came to power with everyone saying that he was far more liberal than putin .
in fact there has been very little sign of this .
it 's only been in the last couple of weeks that he 's started to talk the liberal talk , by giving an interview to an opposition newspaper , for example .
but apart from that there have been very little progress .
there has been the second trial of -lrb- jailed russian oil oligarch mikhail -rrb- khodorkovsky , even though medvedev himself seemed to be against it ; the electronic media is no freer than it was before he came to power and the non-governmental organizations are still having a tough time so there a very few signs that he has made much progress on the democratization front . "
meanwhile , amnesty international declared on the president 's first anniversary that little had been done to improve human rights in russia since he came to power .
in a statement released on thursday , amnesty said that in some areas the situation has deteriorated despite initial improvements , specifically in relation to attacks against lawyers , journalists and opposition activists which it said were on the rise .
sam greene agrees .
" the situation with the press has n't got any better , in fact in some cases it has actually gotten worse , " he said .
" we 've seen more violence against the press .
this is not state-sponsored violence but it 's part of the current climate and it is part of the responsibility of the state to improve the atmosphere and to make clear that violence against the media will not be tolerated .
" in terms of democracy , there was some talk about reforms to the electoral laws but they 've been slow in coming , " he added .
" we saw municipal elections around the country in which the ruling party continued to dominate , continued to rely on administrative resources and its ability to manipulate the system .
we saw this very clearly in the recent mayoral elections in sochi just like month . "
leadership partners still hugely popular in russia despite these criticisms , neither medvedev nor putin has suffered a serious reversal in popularity within the populace .
in fact , both retain huge support within russia .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : medvedev is gaining the kind of star status putin enjoys " medvedev enjoys very high ratings but the problem has always been that russians appear to prefer order to justice , " light said .
" russians are in favor of tough measures if they believe that those tough measures actually make the country more orderly .
so the president and putin still enjoy enormous support from the population . "
sam greene admits that medvedev and putin may have seen a minor dip in popularity but this is mainly due to the current economic crisis , which has seen unemployment in russia increase and income decrease , and not because of any democratic or liberal failures .
but greene believes that the population does n't hold the leadership partners responsible for its economic woes .
“ the people do n't blame medvedev and putin for these problems nor do they really expect the government or medvedev to be able to do much about them , " he said .
" the people are quite pragmatic , if not cynical , about the russian government 's ability to deal with this crisis . "
while medvedev 's polices have been increasingly scrutinized since he came to power , the partnership agreement struck between the president and his prime minister has also come under close inspection during this first year .
questions remain over who really is the boss bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the partnership has to and will endure , say experts the state of the two men 's relationship has been the subject of intense speculation lately as medvedev has grown into his role and repeated reports of an imminent split between the two have begun to circulate .
but both sam greene and margot light believe the partnership will endure .
" i think there was a very clear arrangement between the two of them ahead of their presidential election under which it was agreed that they were playing on the same team and playing the same role which was to maintain the outward legitimacy and stability of the political system and to mediate conflict between the various groups in the elite , " greene said .
" i would n't expect them to work at cross purposes unless there was a real split between the powerful elite in the country .
there seems to be a broad consensus that this current system needs to continue so i think the relationship between medvedev and putin will remain stable .
the only thing that 's changed is that medvedev has become a bit more comfortable in the position , has begun to understand what he can and can not do and become more confident with his rhetoric and his public persona . "
" there have been lots of attempts to find cracks between them , " light added .
" i think it 's fanciful .
i see no cracks between them .
if medvedev was there just to hold the place for putin until he could run again , the danger was always that medvedev would like the taste of power and decide he wanted to keep it for himself .
i see no sign that this has happened – yet , at any rate .
" however , internationally , medvedev is still seen very much as an instrument of putin 's policy , " light concluded .
" although he fulfills all the roles the constitution affords to the president , i still think there is a very strong feeling internationally that putin is making the decisions and medvedev is simply doing his bidding . "
author : nick amies editor chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de pro-kremlin candidate wins sochi mayoral poll amid claims of fraud amid claims of fraud , anatoly pakhomov , the pro-kremlin candidate in mayoral polls for the russian city of sochi , won a landslide victory in an election seen as a test of the political climate under president medvedev .
-lrb- 27.04.2009 -rrb- critics call putin treason bill means to quash opposition human rights organizations have criticized a new bill that would abolish jury trials for people suspected of treason , hostage-taking , organizing mass disturbances and several other serious crimes .
-lrb- 18.12.2008 -rrb- opinion : russia 's power duo offers tenuous political stability it 's an action-packed week in russian politics with dmitry medvedev and vladimir putin taking up their respective offices .
yet everything is not as rosy as it might appear , says deutsche welle 's ingo mannteufel .
-lrb- 05.05.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
italians hard hit by plastic bag ban east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
doubts remain over medvedev 's power and policy after first year in office -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 08.10.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de russia -pipe- 07.05.2009 doubts remain over medvedev 's power and policy after first year in office großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : medvedev has had a busy first 12 months in power russian president dmitry medvedev marks the one-year anniversary of his coming to power on may 7 .
twelve months on , questions and doubts still remain over his legitimacy and his policies . global opinion was divided when dmitry medvedev became russian president on may 7 last year .
some saw the new leader as a puppet of vladimir putin , his predecessor and the man who medvedev had served loyally throughout his two terms in office .
others saw the incoming president as a man who could drive russia down a more liberal and democratic road , and reverse decades of state oppression .
one year on – a year during which medvedev has waged his first war and has been thrust into the forefront of the worst global economic crisis for over 80 years – questions and doubts still remain over whether medvedev is really the man leading russia and if he is , whether he is the right man to reform his nation .
so to what extent has medvedev been successful in attempting to answer those questions leveled against him ?
" from medvedev 's point of view , it 's probably been quite a successful year , " sam greene , the deputy director for operations at the carnegie endowment for international peace in moscow , told deutsche welle .
" this dual system of government which was put together – with medvedev as president and putin as prime minister – has not been without its problems but it 's worked relatively well .
it 's kept the ruling elite relatively cohesive and both medvedev and putin have remained popular politically and are seen as relatively legitimate both at home and internationally .
so it has been a success story for the experiment – which is what this presidency with putin as prime minister is ; a huge political experiment .
" but from a policy perspective , in terms of the reforms that medvedev talked about prior to becoming president ; strengthening the rule of law , diversifying the economy – there really have n't been any policy successes , " he added .
" his rhetoric has been very good .
he speaks very ably on the rule of law , on democracy , on economic liberalism but there was a lot of good rhetoric from putin on these issues for eight years and we did n't see any progress in that direction from him either . "
criticism stems from lack of reform progress much of the analysis of medvedev 's first year in power focuses on these promised reforms and the progress – or lack thereof – that russia has made in the spheres of democracy , human rights and press freedom .
according to professor margot light , a russia expert at the center for the study of global governance at the london school of economics , medvedev has fallen short of the optimists ' expectations .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : medvedev was initially against khodorkovsky 's second trial " there have been many words but very few deeds , " she said .
" medvedev came to power with everyone saying that he was far more liberal than putin .
in fact there has been very little sign of this .
it 's only been in the last couple of weeks that he 's started to talk the liberal talk , by giving an interview to an opposition newspaper , for example .
but apart from that there have been very little progress .
there has been the second trial of -lrb- jailed russian oil oligarch mikhail -rrb- khodorkovsky , even though medvedev himself seemed to be against it ; the electronic media is no freer than it was before he came to power and the non-governmental organizations are still having a tough time so there a very few signs that he has made much progress on the democratization front . "
meanwhile , amnesty international declared on the president 's first anniversary that little had been done to improve human rights in russia since he came to power .
in a statement released on thursday , amnesty said that in some areas the situation has deteriorated despite initial improvements , specifically in relation to attacks against lawyers , journalists and opposition activists which it said were on the rise .
sam greene agrees .
" the situation with the press has n't got any better , in fact in some cases it has actually gotten worse , " he said .
" we 've seen more violence against the press .
this is not state-sponsored violence but it 's part of the current climate and it is part of the responsibility of the state to improve the atmosphere and to make clear that violence against the media will not be tolerated .
" in terms of democracy , there was some talk about reforms to the electoral laws but they 've been slow in coming , " he added .
" we saw municipal elections around the country in which the ruling party continued to dominate , continued to rely on administrative resources and its ability to manipulate the system .
we saw this very clearly in the recent mayoral elections in sochi just like month . "
leadership partners still hugely popular in russia despite these criticisms , neither medvedev nor putin has suffered a serious reversal in popularity within the populace .
in fact , both retain huge support within russia .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : medvedev is gaining the kind of star status putin enjoys " medvedev enjoys very high ratings but the problem has always been that russians appear to prefer order to justice , " light said .
" russians are in favor of tough measures if they believe that those tough measures actually make the country more orderly .
so the president and putin still enjoy enormous support from the population . "
sam greene admits that medvedev and putin may have seen a minor dip in popularity but this is mainly due to the current economic crisis , which has seen unemployment in russia increase and income decrease , and not because of any democratic or liberal failures .
but greene believes that the population does n't hold the leadership partners responsible for its economic woes .
“ the people do n't blame medvedev and putin for these problems nor do they really expect the government or medvedev to be able to do much about them , " he said .
" the people are quite pragmatic , if not cynical , about the russian government 's ability to deal with this crisis . "
while medvedev 's polices have been increasingly scrutinized since he came to power , the partnership agreement struck between the president and his prime minister has also come under close inspection during this first year .
questions remain over who really is the boss bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the partnership has to and will endure , say experts the state of the two men 's relationship has been the subject of intense speculation lately as medvedev has grown into his role and repeated reports of an imminent split between the two have begun to circulate .
but both sam greene and margot light believe the partnership will endure .
" i think there was a very clear arrangement between the two of them ahead of their presidential election under which it was agreed that they were playing on the same team and playing the same role which was to maintain the outward legitimacy and stability of the political system and to mediate conflict between the various groups in the elite , " greene said .
" i would n't expect them to work at cross purposes unless there was a real split between the powerful elite in the country .
there seems to be a broad consensus that this current system needs to continue so i think the relationship between medvedev and putin will remain stable .
the only thing that 's changed is that medvedev has become a bit more comfortable in the position , has begun to understand what he can and can not do and become more confident with his rhetoric and his public persona . "
" there have been lots of attempts to find cracks between them , " light added .
" i think it 's fanciful .
i see no cracks between them .
if medvedev was there just to hold the place for putin until he could run again , the danger was always that medvedev would like the taste of power and decide he wanted to keep it for himself .
i see no sign that this has happened – yet , at any rate .
" however , internationally , medvedev is still seen very much as an instrument of putin 's policy , " light concluded .
" although he fulfills all the roles the constitution affords to the president , i still think there is a very strong feeling internationally that putin is making the decisions and medvedev is simply doing his bidding . "
author : nick amies editor chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de pro-kremlin candidate wins sochi mayoral poll amid claims of fraud amid claims of fraud , anatoly pakhomov , the pro-kremlin candidate in mayoral polls for the russian city of sochi , won a landslide victory in an election seen as a test of the political climate under president medvedev .
-lrb- 27.04.2009 -rrb- critics call putin treason bill means to quash opposition human rights organizations have criticized a new bill that would abolish jury trials for people suspected of treason , hostage-taking , organizing mass disturbances and several other serious crimes .
-lrb- 18.12.2008 -rrb- opinion : russia 's power duo offers tenuous political stability it 's an action-packed week in russian politics with dmitry medvedev and vladimir putin taking up their respective offices .
yet everything is not as rosy as it might appear , says deutsche welle 's ingo mannteufel .
-lrb- 05.05.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live kick off !
countdown we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inside europe listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
betancourt book sparks controversy in france technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket are the gay games necessary ?
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
doubts remain over medvedev 's power and policy after first year in office -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 10.11.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de russia -pipe- 07.05.2009 doubts remain over medvedev 's power and policy after first year in office großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : medvedev has had a busy first 12 months in power russian president dmitry medvedev marks the one-year anniversary of his coming to power on may 7 .
twelve months on , questions and doubts still remain over his legitimacy and his policies . global opinion was divided when dmitry medvedev became russian president on may 7 last year .
some saw the new leader as a puppet of vladimir putin , his predecessor and the man who medvedev had served loyally throughout his two terms in office .
others saw the incoming president as a man who could drive russia down a more liberal and democratic road , and reverse decades of state oppression .
one year on – a year during which medvedev has waged his first war and has been thrust into the forefront of the worst global economic crisis for over 80 years – questions and doubts still remain over whether medvedev is really the man leading russia and if he is , whether he is the right man to reform his nation .
so to what extent has medvedev been successful in attempting to answer those questions leveled against him ?
" from medvedev 's point of view , it 's probably been quite a successful year , " sam greene , the deputy director for operations at the carnegie endowment for international peace in moscow , told deutsche welle .
" this dual system of government which was put together – with medvedev as president and putin as prime minister – has not been without its problems but it 's worked relatively well .
it 's kept the ruling elite relatively cohesive and both medvedev and putin have remained popular politically and are seen as relatively legitimate both at home and internationally .
so it has been a success story for the experiment – which is what this presidency with putin as prime minister is ; a huge political experiment .
" but from a policy perspective , in terms of the reforms that medvedev talked about prior to becoming president ; strengthening the rule of law , diversifying the economy – there really have n't been any policy successes , " he added .
" his rhetoric has been very good .
he speaks very ably on the rule of law , on democracy , on economic liberalism but there was a lot of good rhetoric from putin on these issues for eight years and we did n't see any progress in that direction from him either . "
criticism stems from lack of reform progress much of the analysis of medvedev 's first year in power focuses on these promised reforms and the progress – or lack thereof – that russia has made in the spheres of democracy , human rights and press freedom .
according to professor margot light , a russia expert at the center for the study of global governance at the london school of economics , medvedev has fallen short of the optimists ' expectations .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : medvedev was initially against khodorkovsky 's second trial " there have been many words but very few deeds , " she said .
" medvedev came to power with everyone saying that he was far more liberal than putin .
in fact there has been very little sign of this .
it 's only been in the last couple of weeks that he 's started to talk the liberal talk , by giving an interview to an opposition newspaper , for example .
but apart from that there have been very little progress .
there has been the second trial of -lrb- jailed russian oil oligarch mikhail -rrb- khodorkovsky , even though medvedev himself seemed to be against it ; the electronic media is no freer than it was before he came to power and the non-governmental organizations are still having a tough time so there a very few signs that he has made much progress on the democratization front . "
meanwhile , amnesty international declared on the president 's first anniversary that little had been done to improve human rights in russia since he came to power .
in a statement released on thursday , amnesty said that in some areas the situation has deteriorated despite initial improvements , specifically in relation to attacks against lawyers , journalists and opposition activists which it said were on the rise .
sam greene agrees .
" the situation with the press has n't got any better , in fact in some cases it has actually gotten worse , " he said .
" we 've seen more violence against the press .
this is not state-sponsored violence but it 's part of the current climate and it is part of the responsibility of the state to improve the atmosphere and to make clear that violence against the media will not be tolerated .
" in terms of democracy , there was some talk about reforms to the electoral laws but they 've been slow in coming , " he added .
" we saw municipal elections around the country in which the ruling party continued to dominate , continued to rely on administrative resources and its ability to manipulate the system .
we saw this very clearly in the recent mayoral elections in sochi just like month . "
leadership partners still hugely popular in russia despite these criticisms , neither medvedev nor putin has suffered a serious reversal in popularity within the populace .
in fact , both retain huge support within russia .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : medvedev is gaining the kind of star status putin enjoys " medvedev enjoys very high ratings but the problem has always been that russians appear to prefer order to justice , " light said .
" russians are in favor of tough measures if they believe that those tough measures actually make the country more orderly .
so the president and putin still enjoy enormous support from the population . "
sam greene admits that medvedev and putin may have seen a minor dip in popularity but this is mainly due to the current economic crisis , which has seen unemployment in russia increase and income decrease , and not because of any democratic or liberal failures .
but greene believes that the population does n't hold the leadership partners responsible for its economic woes .
“ the people do n't blame medvedev and putin for these problems nor do they really expect the government or medvedev to be able to do much about them , " he said .
" the people are quite pragmatic , if not cynical , about the russian government 's ability to deal with this crisis . "
while medvedev 's polices have been increasingly scrutinized since he came to power , the partnership agreement struck between the president and his prime minister has also come under close inspection during this first year .
questions remain over who really is the boss bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the partnership has to and will endure , say experts the state of the two men 's relationship has been the subject of intense speculation lately as medvedev has grown into his role and repeated reports of an imminent split between the two have begun to circulate .
but both sam greene and margot light believe the partnership will endure .
" i think there was a very clear arrangement between the two of them ahead of their presidential election under which it was agreed that they were playing on the same team and playing the same role which was to maintain the outward legitimacy and stability of the political system and to mediate conflict between the various groups in the elite , " greene said .
" i would n't expect them to work at cross purposes unless there was a real split between the powerful elite in the country .
there seems to be a broad consensus that this current system needs to continue so i think the relationship between medvedev and putin will remain stable .
the only thing that 's changed is that medvedev has become a bit more comfortable in the position , has begun to understand what he can and can not do and become more confident with his rhetoric and his public persona . "
" there have been lots of attempts to find cracks between them , " light added .
" i think it 's fanciful .
i see no cracks between them .
if medvedev was there just to hold the place for putin until he could run again , the danger was always that medvedev would like the taste of power and decide he wanted to keep it for himself .
i see no sign that this has happened – yet , at any rate .
" however , internationally , medvedev is still seen very much as an instrument of putin 's policy , " light concluded .
" although he fulfills all the roles the constitution affords to the president , i still think there is a very strong feeling internationally that putin is making the decisions and medvedev is simply doing his bidding . "
author : nick amies editor chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de pro-kremlin candidate wins sochi mayoral poll amid claims of fraud amid claims of fraud , anatoly pakhomov , the pro-kremlin candidate in mayoral polls for the russian city of sochi , won a landslide victory in an election seen as a test of the political climate under president medvedev .
-lrb- 27.04.2009 -rrb- critics call putin treason bill means to quash opposition human rights organizations have criticized a new bill that would abolish jury trials for people suspected of treason , hostage-taking , organizing mass disturbances and several other serious crimes .
-lrb- 18.12.2008 -rrb- opinion : russia 's power duo offers tenuous political stability it 's an action-packed week in russian politics with dmitry medvedev and vladimir putin taking up their respective offices .
yet everything is not as rosy as it might appear , says deutsche welle 's ingo mannteufel .
-lrb- 05.05.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
doubts remain over medvedev 's power and policy after first year in office -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 06.09.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de russia -pipe- 07.05.2009 doubts remain over medvedev 's power and policy after first year in office großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : medvedev has had a busy first 12 months in power russian president dmitry medvedev marks the one-year anniversary of his coming to power on may 7 .
twelve months on , questions and doubts still remain over his legitimacy and his policies . global opinion was divided when dmitry medvedev became russian president on may 7 last year .
some saw the new leader as a puppet of vladimir putin , his predecessor and the man who medvedev had served loyally throughout his two terms in office .
others saw the incoming president as a man who could drive russia down a more liberal and democratic road , and reverse decades of state oppression .
one year on – a year during which medvedev has waged his first war and has been thrust into the forefront of the worst global economic crisis for over 80 years – questions and doubts still remain over whether medvedev is really the man leading russia and if he is , whether he is the right man to reform his nation .
so to what extent has medvedev been successful in attempting to answer those questions leveled against him ?
" from medvedev 's point of view , it 's probably been quite a successful year , " sam greene , the deputy director for operations at the carnegie endowment for international peace in moscow , told deutsche welle .
" this dual system of government which was put together – with medvedev as president and putin as prime minister – has not been without its problems but it 's worked relatively well .
it 's kept the ruling elite relatively cohesive and both medvedev and putin have remained popular politically and are seen as relatively legitimate both at home and internationally .
so it has been a success story for the experiment – which is what this presidency with putin as prime minister is ; a huge political experiment .
" but from a policy perspective , in terms of the reforms that medvedev talked about prior to becoming president ; strengthening the rule of law , diversifying the economy – there really have n't been any policy successes , " he added .
" his rhetoric has been very good .
he speaks very ably on the rule of law , on democracy , on economic liberalism but there was a lot of good rhetoric from putin on these issues for eight years and we did n't see any progress in that direction from him either . "
criticism stems from lack of reform progress much of the analysis of medvedev 's first year in power focuses on these promised reforms and the progress – or lack thereof – that russia has made in the spheres of democracy , human rights and press freedom .
according to professor margot light , a russia expert at the center for the study of global governance at the london school of economics , medvedev has fallen short of the optimists ' expectations .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : medvedev was initially against khodorkovsky 's second trial " there have been many words but very few deeds , " she said .
" medvedev came to power with everyone saying that he was far more liberal than putin .
in fact there has been very little sign of this .
it 's only been in the last couple of weeks that he 's started to talk the liberal talk , by giving an interview to an opposition newspaper , for example .
but apart from that there have been very little progress .
there has been the second trial of -lrb- jailed russian oil oligarch mikhail -rrb- khodorkovsky , even though medvedev himself seemed to be against it ; the electronic media is no freer than it was before he came to power and the non-governmental organizations are still having a tough time so there a very few signs that he has made much progress on the democratization front . "
meanwhile , amnesty international declared on the president 's first anniversary that little had been done to improve human rights in russia since he came to power .
in a statement released on thursday , amnesty said that in some areas the situation has deteriorated despite initial improvements , specifically in relation to attacks against lawyers , journalists and opposition activists which it said were on the rise .
sam greene agrees .
" the situation with the press has n't got any better , in fact in some cases it has actually gotten worse , " he said .
" we 've seen more violence against the press .
this is not state-sponsored violence but it 's part of the current climate and it is part of the responsibility of the state to improve the atmosphere and to make clear that violence against the media will not be tolerated .
" in terms of democracy , there was some talk about reforms to the electoral laws but they 've been slow in coming , " he added .
" we saw municipal elections around the country in which the ruling party continued to dominate , continued to rely on administrative resources and its ability to manipulate the system .
we saw this very clearly in the recent mayoral elections in sochi just like month . "
leadership partners still hugely popular in russia despite these criticisms , neither medvedev nor putin has suffered a serious reversal in popularity within the populace .
in fact , both retain huge support within russia .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : medvedev is gaining the kind of star status putin enjoys " medvedev enjoys very high ratings but the problem has always been that russians appear to prefer order to justice , " light said .
" russians are in favor of tough measures if they believe that those tough measures actually make the country more orderly .
so the president and putin still enjoy enormous support from the population . "
sam greene admits that medvedev and putin may have seen a minor dip in popularity but this is mainly due to the current economic crisis , which has seen unemployment in russia increase and income decrease , and not because of any democratic or liberal failures .
but greene believes that the population does n't hold the leadership partners responsible for its economic woes .
“ the people do n't blame medvedev and putin for these problems nor do they really expect the government or medvedev to be able to do much about them , " he said .
" the people are quite pragmatic , if not cynical , about the russian government 's ability to deal with this crisis . "
while medvedev 's polices have been increasingly scrutinized since he came to power , the partnership agreement struck between the president and his prime minister has also come under close inspection during this first year .
questions remain over who really is the boss bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the partnership has to and will endure , say experts the state of the two men 's relationship has been the subject of intense speculation lately as medvedev has grown into his role and repeated reports of an imminent split between the two have begun to circulate .
but both sam greene and margot light believe the partnership will endure .
" i think there was a very clear arrangement between the two of them ahead of their presidential election under which it was agreed that they were playing on the same team and playing the same role which was to maintain the outward legitimacy and stability of the political system and to mediate conflict between the various groups in the elite , " greene said .
" i would n't expect them to work at cross purposes unless there was a real split between the powerful elite in the country .
there seems to be a broad consensus that this current system needs to continue so i think the relationship between medvedev and putin will remain stable .
the only thing that 's changed is that medvedev has become a bit more comfortable in the position , has begun to understand what he can and can not do and become more confident with his rhetoric and his public persona . "
" there have been lots of attempts to find cracks between them , " light added .
" i think it 's fanciful .
i see no cracks between them .
if medvedev was there just to hold the place for putin until he could run again , the danger was always that medvedev would like the taste of power and decide he wanted to keep it for himself .
i see no sign that this has happened – yet , at any rate .
" however , internationally , medvedev is still seen very much as an instrument of putin 's policy , " light concluded .
" although he fulfills all the roles the constitution affords to the president , i still think there is a very strong feeling internationally that putin is making the decisions and medvedev is simply doing his bidding . "
author : nick amies editor chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de pro-kremlin candidate wins sochi mayoral poll amid claims of fraud amid claims of fraud , anatoly pakhomov , the pro-kremlin candidate in mayoral polls for the russian city of sochi , won a landslide victory in an election seen as a test of the political climate under president medvedev .
-lrb- 27.04.2009 -rrb- critics call putin treason bill means to quash opposition human rights organizations have criticized a new bill that would abolish jury trials for people suspected of treason , hostage-taking , organizing mass disturbances and several other serious crimes .
-lrb- 18.12.2008 -rrb- opinion : russia 's power duo offers tenuous political stability it 's an action-packed week in russian politics with dmitry medvedev and vladimir putin taking up their respective offices .
yet everything is not as rosy as it might appear , says deutsche welle 's ingo mannteufel .
-lrb- 05.05.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live concert hour musica sacra in marktoberdorf listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
it simply is n't cricket are the gay games necessary ?
love parade - the end of an era oracle paul takes the plunge venturing into mafia turf europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
doubts remain over medvedev 's power and policy after first year in office -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 29.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de russia -pipe- 07.05.2009 doubts remain over medvedev 's power and policy after first year in office großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : medvedev has had a busy first 12 months in power russian president dmitry medvedev marks the one-year anniversary of his coming to power on may 7 .
twelve months on , questions and doubts still remain over his legitimacy and his policies . global opinion was divided when dmitry medvedev became russian president on may 7 last year .
some saw the new leader as a puppet of vladimir putin , his predecessor and the man who medvedev had served loyally throughout his two terms in office .
others saw the incoming president as a man who could drive russia down a more liberal and democratic road , and reverse decades of state oppression .
one year on – a year during which medvedev has waged his first war and has been thrust into the forefront of the worst global economic crisis for over 80 years – questions and doubts still remain over whether medvedev is really the man leading russia and if he is , whether he is the right man to reform his nation .
so to what extent has medvedev been successful in attempting to answer those questions leveled against him ?
" from medvedev 's point of view , it 's probably been quite a successful year , " sam greene , the deputy director for operations at the carnegie endowment for international peace in moscow , told deutsche welle .
" this dual system of government which was put together – with medvedev as president and putin as prime minister – has not been without its problems but it 's worked relatively well .
it 's kept the ruling elite relatively cohesive and both medvedev and putin have remained popular politically and are seen as relatively legitimate both at home and internationally .
so it has been a success story for the experiment – which is what this presidency with putin as prime minister is ; a huge political experiment .
" but from a policy perspective , in terms of the reforms that medvedev talked about prior to becoming president ; strengthening the rule of law , diversifying the economy – there really have n't been any policy successes , " he added .
" his rhetoric has been very good .
he speaks very ably on the rule of law , on democracy , on economic liberalism but there was a lot of good rhetoric from putin on these issues for eight years and we did n't see any progress in that direction from him either . "
criticism stems from lack of reform progress much of the analysis of medvedev 's first year in power focuses on these promised reforms and the progress – or lack thereof – that russia has made in the spheres of democracy , human rights and press freedom .
according to professor margot light , a russia expert at the center for the study of global governance at the london school of economics , medvedev has fallen short of the optimists ' expectations .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : medvedev was initially against khodorkovsky 's second trial " there have been many words but very few deeds , " she said .
" medvedev came to power with everyone saying that he was far more liberal than putin .
in fact there has been very little sign of this .
it 's only been in the last couple of weeks that he 's started to talk the liberal talk , by giving an interview to an opposition newspaper , for example .
but apart from that there have been very little progress .
there has been the second trial of -lrb- jailed russian oil oligarch mikhail -rrb- khodorkovsky , even though medvedev himself seemed to be against it ; the electronic media is no freer than it was before he came to power and the non-governmental organizations are still having a tough time so there a very few signs that he has made much progress on the democratization front . "
meanwhile , amnesty international declared on the president 's first anniversary that little had been done to improve human rights in russia since he came to power .
in a statement released on thursday , amnesty said that in some areas the situation has deteriorated despite initial improvements , specifically in relation to attacks against lawyers , journalists and opposition activists which it said were on the rise .
sam greene agrees .
" the situation with the press has n't got any better , in fact in some cases it has actually gotten worse , " he said .
" we 've seen more violence against the press .
this is not state-sponsored violence but it 's part of the current climate and it is part of the responsibility of the state to improve the atmosphere and to make clear that violence against the media will not be tolerated .
" in terms of democracy , there was some talk about reforms to the electoral laws but they 've been slow in coming , " he added .
" we saw municipal elections around the country in which the ruling party continued to dominate , continued to rely on administrative resources and its ability to manipulate the system .
we saw this very clearly in the recent mayoral elections in sochi just like month . "
leadership partners still hugely popular in russia despite these criticisms , neither medvedev nor putin has suffered a serious reversal in popularity within the populace .
in fact , both retain huge support within russia .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : medvedev is gaining the kind of star status putin enjoys " medvedev enjoys very high ratings but the problem has always been that russians appear to prefer order to justice , " light said .
" russians are in favor of tough measures if they believe that those tough measures actually make the country more orderly .
so the president and putin still enjoy enormous support from the population . "
sam greene admits that medvedev and putin may have seen a minor dip in popularity but this is mainly due to the current economic crisis , which has seen unemployment in russia increase and income decrease , and not because of any democratic or liberal failures .
but greene believes that the population does n't hold the leadership partners responsible for its economic woes .
“ the people do n't blame medvedev and putin for these problems nor do they really expect the government or medvedev to be able to do much about them , " he said .
" the people are quite pragmatic , if not cynical , about the russian government 's ability to deal with this crisis . "
while medvedev 's polices have been increasingly scrutinized since he came to power , the partnership agreement struck between the president and his prime minister has also come under close inspection during this first year .
questions remain over who really is the boss bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the partnership has to and will endure , say experts the state of the two men 's relationship has been the subject of intense speculation lately as medvedev has grown into his role and repeated reports of an imminent split between the two have begun to circulate .
but both sam greene and margot light believe the partnership will endure .
" i think there was a very clear arrangement between the two of them ahead of their presidential election under which it was agreed that they were playing on the same team and playing the same role which was to maintain the outward legitimacy and stability of the political system and to mediate conflict between the various groups in the elite , " greene said .
" i would n't expect them to work at cross purposes unless there was a real split between the powerful elite in the country .
there seems to be a broad consensus that this current system needs to continue so i think the relationship between medvedev and putin will remain stable .
the only thing that 's changed is that medvedev has become a bit more comfortable in the position , has begun to understand what he can and can not do and become more confident with his rhetoric and his public persona . "
" there have been lots of attempts to find cracks between them , " light added .
" i think it 's fanciful .
i see no cracks between them .
if medvedev was there just to hold the place for putin until he could run again , the danger was always that medvedev would like the taste of power and decide he wanted to keep it for himself .
i see no sign that this has happened – yet , at any rate .
" however , internationally , medvedev is still seen very much as an instrument of putin 's policy , " light concluded .
" although he fulfills all the roles the constitution affords to the president , i still think there is a very strong feeling internationally that putin is making the decisions and medvedev is simply doing his bidding . "
author : nick amies editor chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de pro-kremlin candidate wins sochi mayoral poll amid claims of fraud amid claims of fraud , anatoly pakhomov , the pro-kremlin candidate in mayoral polls for the russian city of sochi , won a landslide victory in an election seen as a test of the political climate under president medvedev .
-lrb- 27.04.2009 -rrb- critics call putin treason bill means to quash opposition human rights organizations have criticized a new bill that would abolish jury trials for people suspected of treason , hostage-taking , organizing mass disturbances and several other serious crimes .
-lrb- 18.12.2008 -rrb- opinion : russia 's power duo offers tenuous political stability it 's an action-packed week in russian politics with dmitry medvedev and vladimir putin taking up their respective offices .
yet everything is not as rosy as it might appear , says deutsche welle 's ingo mannteufel .
-lrb- 05.05.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live in focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
trans-atlantic relations transatlantic voices the disunity among eu member states renders eu foreign policy on libya virtually nonexistent .
foreign trade the golden easter bunny from lindt & sprüngli is looking to hop further afield .
watch the video new-look team austria 's soon-to-be vice-chancellor names an unprecendented number of women to his cabinet .
listen to the audio postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
french burqa ban fits secular ideals is berlusconi giving italy a bad name ?
a dubious record for belgium inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
doubts remain over medvedev 's power and policy after first year in office -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 02.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de russia -pipe- 07.05.2009 doubts remain over medvedev 's power and policy after first year in office großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : medvedev has had a busy first 12 months in power russian president dmitry medvedev marks the one-year anniversary of his coming to power on may 7 .
twelve months on , questions and doubts still remain over his legitimacy and his policies . global opinion was divided when dmitry medvedev became russian president on may 7 last year .
some saw the new leader as a puppet of vladimir putin , his predecessor and the man who medvedev had served loyally throughout his two terms in office .
others saw the incoming president as a man who could drive russia down a more liberal and democratic road , and reverse decades of state oppression .
one year on – a year during which medvedev has waged his first war and has been thrust into the forefront of the worst global economic crisis for over 80 years – questions and doubts still remain over whether medvedev is really the man leading russia and if he is , whether he is the right man to reform his nation .
so to what extent has medvedev been successful in attempting to answer those questions leveled against him ?
" from medvedev 's point of view , it 's probably been quite a successful year , " sam greene , the deputy director for operations at the carnegie endowment for international peace in moscow , told deutsche welle .
" this dual system of government which was put together – with medvedev as president and putin as prime minister – has not been without its problems but it 's worked relatively well .
it 's kept the ruling elite relatively cohesive and both medvedev and putin have remained popular politically and are seen as relatively legitimate both at home and internationally .
so it has been a success story for the experiment – which is what this presidency with putin as prime minister is ; a huge political experiment .
" but from a policy perspective , in terms of the reforms that medvedev talked about prior to becoming president ; strengthening the rule of law , diversifying the economy – there really have n't been any policy successes , " he added .
" his rhetoric has been very good .
he speaks very ably on the rule of law , on democracy , on economic liberalism but there was a lot of good rhetoric from putin on these issues for eight years and we did n't see any progress in that direction from him either . "
criticism stems from lack of reform progress much of the analysis of medvedev 's first year in power focuses on these promised reforms and the progress – or lack thereof – that russia has made in the spheres of democracy , human rights and press freedom .
according to professor margot light , a russia expert at the center for the study of global governance at the london school of economics , medvedev has fallen short of the optimists ' expectations .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : medvedev was initially against khodorkovsky 's second trial " there have been many words but very few deeds , " she said .
" medvedev came to power with everyone saying that he was far more liberal than putin .
in fact there has been very little sign of this .
it 's only been in the last couple of weeks that he 's started to talk the liberal talk , by giving an interview to an opposition newspaper , for example .
but apart from that there have been very little progress .
there has been the second trial of -lrb- jailed russian oil oligarch mikhail -rrb- khodorkovsky , even though medvedev himself seemed to be against it ; the electronic media is no freer than it was before he came to power and the non-governmental organizations are still having a tough time so there a very few signs that he has made much progress on the democratization front . "
meanwhile , amnesty international declared on the president 's first anniversary that little had been done to improve human rights in russia since he came to power .
in a statement released on thursday , amnesty said that in some areas the situation has deteriorated despite initial improvements , specifically in relation to attacks against lawyers , journalists and opposition activists which it said were on the rise .
sam greene agrees .
" the situation with the press has n't got any better , in fact in some cases it has actually gotten worse , " he said .
" we 've seen more violence against the press .
this is not state-sponsored violence but it 's part of the current climate and it is part of the responsibility of the state to improve the atmosphere and to make clear that violence against the media will not be tolerated .
" in terms of democracy , there was some talk about reforms to the electoral laws but they 've been slow in coming , " he added .
" we saw municipal elections around the country in which the ruling party continued to dominate , continued to rely on administrative resources and its ability to manipulate the system .
we saw this very clearly in the recent mayoral elections in sochi just like month . "
leadership partners still hugely popular in russia despite these criticisms , neither medvedev nor putin has suffered a serious reversal in popularity within the populace .
in fact , both retain huge support within russia .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : medvedev is gaining the kind of star status putin enjoys " medvedev enjoys very high ratings but the problem has always been that russians appear to prefer order to justice , " light said .
" russians are in favor of tough measures if they believe that those tough measures actually make the country more orderly .
so the president and putin still enjoy enormous support from the population . "
sam greene admits that medvedev and putin may have seen a minor dip in popularity but this is mainly due to the current economic crisis , which has seen unemployment in russia increase and income decrease , and not because of any democratic or liberal failures .
but greene believes that the population does n't hold the leadership partners responsible for its economic woes .
“ the people do n't blame medvedev and putin for these problems nor do they really expect the government or medvedev to be able to do much about them , " he said .
" the people are quite pragmatic , if not cynical , about the russian government 's ability to deal with this crisis . "
while medvedev 's polices have been increasingly scrutinized since he came to power , the partnership agreement struck between the president and his prime minister has also come under close inspection during this first year .
questions remain over who really is the boss bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the partnership has to and will endure , say experts the state of the two men 's relationship has been the subject of intense speculation lately as medvedev has grown into his role and repeated reports of an imminent split between the two have begun to circulate .
but both sam greene and margot light believe the partnership will endure .
" i think there was a very clear arrangement between the two of them ahead of their presidential election under which it was agreed that they were playing on the same team and playing the same role which was to maintain the outward legitimacy and stability of the political system and to mediate conflict between the various groups in the elite , " greene said .
" i would n't expect them to work at cross purposes unless there was a real split between the powerful elite in the country .
there seems to be a broad consensus that this current system needs to continue so i think the relationship between medvedev and putin will remain stable .
the only thing that 's changed is that medvedev has become a bit more comfortable in the position , has begun to understand what he can and can not do and become more confident with his rhetoric and his public persona . "
" there have been lots of attempts to find cracks between them , " light added .
" i think it 's fanciful .
i see no cracks between them .
if medvedev was there just to hold the place for putin until he could run again , the danger was always that medvedev would like the taste of power and decide he wanted to keep it for himself .
i see no sign that this has happened – yet , at any rate .
" however , internationally , medvedev is still seen very much as an instrument of putin 's policy , " light concluded .
" although he fulfills all the roles the constitution affords to the president , i still think there is a very strong feeling internationally that putin is making the decisions and medvedev is simply doing his bidding . "
author : nick amies editor chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de pro-kremlin candidate wins sochi mayoral poll amid claims of fraud amid claims of fraud , anatoly pakhomov , the pro-kremlin candidate in mayoral polls for the russian city of sochi , won a landslide victory in an election seen as a test of the political climate under president medvedev .
-lrb- 27.04.2009 -rrb- critics call putin treason bill means to quash opposition human rights organizations have criticized a new bill that would abolish jury trials for people suspected of treason , hostage-taking , organizing mass disturbances and several other serious crimes .
-lrb- 18.12.2008 -rrb- opinion : russia 's power duo offers tenuous political stability it 's an action-packed week in russian politics with dmitry medvedev and vladimir putin taking up their respective offices .
yet everything is not as rosy as it might appear , says deutsche welle 's ingo mannteufel .
-lrb- 05.05.2008 -rrb- 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live europa aktuell we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live arts on the air listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
spain deutsche welle takes a closer look at the protesters camped out in central madrid .
watch the video nuclear energy politicians in nuclear giant france decry germany 's decision to abandon the technology .
listen to the audio postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
french burqa ban fits secular ideals is berlusconi giving italy a bad name ?
a dubious record for belgium inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
doubts remain over medvedev 's power and policy after first year in office -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de russia -pipe- 07.05.2009 doubts remain over medvedev 's power and policy after first year in office großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : medvedev has had a busy first 12 months in power russian president dmitry medvedev marks the one-year anniversary of his coming to power on may 7 .
twelve months on , questions and doubts still remain over his legitimacy and his policies . global opinion was divided when dmitry medvedev became russian president on may 7 last year .
some saw the new leader as a puppet of vladimir putin , his predecessor and the man who medvedev had served loyally throughout his two terms in office .
others saw the incoming president as a man who could drive russia down a more liberal and democratic road , and reverse decades of state oppression .
one year on – a year during which medvedev has waged his first war and has been thrust into the forefront of the worst global economic crisis for over 80 years – questions and doubts still remain over whether medvedev is really the man leading russia and if he is , whether he is the right man to reform his nation .
so to what extent has medvedev been successful in attempting to answer those questions leveled against him ?
" from medvedev 's point of view , it 's probably been quite a successful year , " sam greene , the deputy director for operations at the carnegie endowment for international peace in moscow , told deutsche welle .
" this dual system of government which was put together – with medvedev as president and putin as prime minister – has not been without its problems but it 's worked relatively well .
it 's kept the ruling elite relatively cohesive and both medvedev and putin have remained popular politically and are seen as relatively legitimate both at home and internationally .
so it has been a success story for the experiment – which is what this presidency with putin as prime minister is ; a huge political experiment .
" but from a policy perspective , in terms of the reforms that medvedev talked about prior to becoming president ; strengthening the rule of law , diversifying the economy – there really have n't been any policy successes , " he added .
" his rhetoric has been very good .
he speaks very ably on the rule of law , on democracy , on economic liberalism but there was a lot of good rhetoric from putin on these issues for eight years and we did n't see any progress in that direction from him either . "
criticism stems from lack of reform progress much of the analysis of medvedev 's first year in power focuses on these promised reforms and the progress – or lack thereof – that russia has made in the spheres of democracy , human rights and press freedom .
according to professor margot light , a russia expert at the center for the study of global governance at the london school of economics , medvedev has fallen short of the optimists ' expectations .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : medvedev was initially against khodorkovsky 's second trial " there have been many words but very few deeds , " she said .
" medvedev came to power with everyone saying that he was far more liberal than putin .
in fact there has been very little sign of this .
it 's only been in the last couple of weeks that he 's started to talk the liberal talk , by giving an interview to an opposition newspaper , for example .
but apart from that there have been very little progress .
there has been the second trial of -lrb- jailed russian oil oligarch mikhail -rrb- khodorkovsky , even though medvedev himself seemed to be against it ; the electronic media is no freer than it was before he came to power and the non-governmental organizations are still having a tough time so there a very few signs that he has made much progress on the democratization front . "
meanwhile , amnesty international declared on the president 's first anniversary that little had been done to improve human rights in russia since he came to power .
in a statement released on thursday , amnesty said that in some areas the situation has deteriorated despite initial improvements , specifically in relation to attacks against lawyers , journalists and opposition activists which it said were on the rise .
sam greene agrees .
" the situation with the press has n't got any better , in fact in some cases it has actually gotten worse , " he said .
" we 've seen more violence against the press .
this is not state-sponsored violence but it 's part of the current climate and it is part of the responsibility of the state to improve the atmosphere and to make clear that violence against the media will not be tolerated .
" in terms of democracy , there was some talk about reforms to the electoral laws but they 've been slow in coming , " he added .
" we saw municipal elections around the country in which the ruling party continued to dominate , continued to rely on administrative resources and its ability to manipulate the system .
we saw this very clearly in the recent mayoral elections in sochi just like month . "
leadership partners still hugely popular in russia despite these criticisms , neither medvedev nor putin has suffered a serious reversal in popularity within the populace .
in fact , both retain huge support within russia .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : medvedev is gaining the kind of star status putin enjoys " medvedev enjoys very high ratings but the problem has always been that russians appear to prefer order to justice , " light said .
" russians are in favor of tough measures if they believe that those tough measures actually make the country more orderly .
so the president and putin still enjoy enormous support from the population . "
sam greene admits that medvedev and putin may have seen a minor dip in popularity but this is mainly due to the current economic crisis , which has seen unemployment in russia increase and income decrease , and not because of any democratic or liberal failures .
but greene believes that the population does n't hold the leadership partners responsible for its economic woes .
“ the people do n't blame medvedev and putin for these problems nor do they really expect the government or medvedev to be able to do much about them , " he said .
" the people are quite pragmatic , if not cynical , about the russian government 's ability to deal with this crisis . "
while medvedev 's polices have been increasingly scrutinized since he came to power , the partnership agreement struck between the president and his prime minister has also come under close inspection during this first year .
questions remain over who really is the boss bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the partnership has to and will endure , say experts the state of the two men 's relationship has been the subject of intense speculation lately as medvedev has grown into his role and repeated reports of an imminent split between the two have begun to circulate .
but both sam greene and margot light believe the partnership will endure .
" i think there was a very clear arrangement between the two of them ahead of their presidential election under which it was agreed that they were playing on the same team and playing the same role which was to maintain the outward legitimacy and stability of the political system and to mediate conflict between the various groups in the elite , " greene said .
" i would n't expect them to work at cross purposes unless there was a real split between the powerful elite in the country .
there seems to be a broad consensus that this current system needs to continue so i think the relationship between medvedev and putin will remain stable .
the only thing that 's changed is that medvedev has become a bit more comfortable in the position , has begun to understand what he can and can not do and become more confident with his rhetoric and his public persona . "
" there have been lots of attempts to find cracks between them , " light added .
" i think it 's fanciful .
i see no cracks between them .
if medvedev was there just to hold the place for putin until he could run again , the danger was always that medvedev would like the taste of power and decide he wanted to keep it for himself .
i see no sign that this has happened – yet , at any rate .
" however , internationally , medvedev is still seen very much as an instrument of putin 's policy , " light concluded .
" although he fulfills all the roles the constitution affords to the president , i still think there is a very strong feeling internationally that putin is making the decisions and medvedev is simply doing his bidding . "
author : nick amies editor chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de pro-kremlin candidate wins sochi mayoral poll amid claims of fraud amid claims of fraud , anatoly pakhomov , the pro-kremlin candidate in mayoral polls for the russian city of sochi , won a landslide victory in an election seen as a test of the political climate under president medvedev .
-lrb- 27.04.2009 -rrb- critics call putin treason bill means to quash opposition human rights organizations have criticized a new bill that would abolish jury trials for people suspected of treason , hostage-taking , organizing mass disturbances and several other serious crimes .
-lrb- 18.12.2008 -rrb- opinion : russia 's power duo offers tenuous political stability it 's an action-packed week in russian politics with dmitry medvedev and vladimir putin taking up their respective offices .
yet everything is not as rosy as it might appear , says deutsche welle 's ingo mannteufel .
-lrb- 05.05.2008 -rrb- 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit tagesthema we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
unemployment facing high unemployment at home , many young spaniards are trying their luck in germany .
watch the video tour de danger why have there been so many violent crashes at this year 's tour de france ?
listen to the audio world war ii nazi leader adolf hitler 's austrian birthplace kicks him off its list of honorary citizens .
listen to the audio inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
fiat reported to have plans to shut down german opel plant -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 29.09.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de auto industry -pipe- 07.05.2009 fiat reported to have plans to shut down german opel plant großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : at this stage , the road fiat plans to take in its proposed opel takeover is unclear italian auto group fiat could shut down as many as five factories , including one in germany , as part of its plans to take over the european operations of struggling us auto giant , general motors . according to media reports that cite fiat 's proposal to the german government from earlier this week , the opel plant in kaiserslautern would cease operations under fiat .
plants in bochum and the opel headquarters at ruesselsheim would , according to the reports , be scaled down , as part of " project phoenix " .
one gm plant in england , one in austria , as well as two italian factories would also be part of the shutdown list , according to the reports .
however , this contradicts fiat ceo sergio marchionne 's denial earlier this week that any of opel 's four german plans would be closed . job cuts " inevitable " - no matter who takes over bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : opel employees ' fate is still very much up in the air armin schild , a member of opel 's supervisory board , said job cuts would be inevitable in a takeover of opel .
job cut plans are one of the key criteria on which the suitability of potential investors in opel will be judged , according to a checklist drawn up by vice-chancellor frank-walter steinmeier -lrb- spd -rrb- , who will is to challenge chancellor angela merkel -lrb- cdu -rrb- in september 's federal election .
schild , who represents labor union ig metall on the board , also said the austrian-canadian car parts maker magna has so far presented a more concrete takeover proposal .
media reports have said that possible partners for magna include russian carmaker gaz as well as russia 's sberbank .
gaz and its owner , billionaire oleg deripaska , have repeatedly denied interest .
general motors teeters on bridge of bankruptcy meanwhile , opel 's parent company , general motors , has announced a quarterly net loss of six billion dollars -lrb- 4.5 billion euros -rrb- - its eighth quarterly loss in a row .
it also announced a loss of 2 billion dollars -lrb- 1.5 billion euros -rrb- from its european operations .
revenue dropped by 47 percent , to 22.4 billion dollars .
gm , the largest us carmaker , is currently operating under a us federal bail-out plan .
it is threatened with bankruptcy , as has already happened to its competitor , chrysler .
us president barack obama has given gm an end-of-may deadline for a new restructuring plan to be implemented . cg / dpa , reuters / ap / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de fiat denies it plans to cut 18,000 jobs , close factories fiat has denied a german news report that it plans to cut 18,000 jobs and close 10 factories in europe , should it succeed in its bid to take over gm 's european operations .
-lrb- 06.05.2009 -rrb- fiat boss commits to opel plants in germany the head of italian automaker fiat , sergio marchionne , has said in an interview he wants to keep open all four opel plants in germany after a possible takeover of the struggling carmaker .
-lrb- 05.05.2009 -rrb- magna meets with guttenberg over possible opel deal representatives from the canadian-austrian car parts supplier have presented germany 's economics minister with a draft plan for bailing out opel .
but the troubled carmaker remains a bone of contention .
-lrb- 28.04.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live world in progress development in a globalized world listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
fiat reported to have plans to shut down german opel plant -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.12.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de auto industry -pipe- 07.05.2009 fiat reported to have plans to shut down german opel plant großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : at this stage , the road fiat plans to take in its proposed opel takeover is unclear italian auto group fiat could shut down as many as five factories , including one in germany , as part of its plans to take over the european operations of struggling us auto giant , general motors . according to media reports that cite fiat 's proposal to the german government from earlier this week , the opel plant in kaiserslautern would cease operations under fiat .
plants in bochum and the opel headquarters at ruesselsheim would , according to the reports , be scaled down , as part of " project phoenix " .
one gm plant in england , one in austria , as well as two italian factories would also be part of the shutdown list , according to the reports .
however , this contradicts fiat ceo sergio marchionne 's denial earlier this week that any of opel 's four german plans would be closed . job cuts " inevitable " - no matter who takes over bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : opel employees ' fate is still very much up in the air armin schild , a member of opel 's supervisory board , said job cuts would be inevitable in a takeover of opel .
job cut plans are one of the key criteria on which the suitability of potential investors in opel will be judged , according to a checklist drawn up by vice-chancellor frank-walter steinmeier -lrb- spd -rrb- , who will is to challenge chancellor angela merkel -lrb- cdu -rrb- in september 's federal election .
schild , who represents labor union ig metall on the board , also said the austrian-canadian car parts maker magna has so far presented a more concrete takeover proposal .
media reports have said that possible partners for magna include russian carmaker gaz as well as russia 's sberbank .
gaz and its owner , billionaire oleg deripaska , have repeatedly denied interest .
general motors teeters on bridge of bankruptcy meanwhile , opel 's parent company , general motors , has announced a quarterly net loss of six billion dollars -lrb- 4.5 billion euros -rrb- - its eighth quarterly loss in a row .
it also announced a loss of 2 billion dollars -lrb- 1.5 billion euros -rrb- from its european operations .
revenue dropped by 47 percent , to 22.4 billion dollars .
gm , the largest us carmaker , is currently operating under a us federal bail-out plan .
it is threatened with bankruptcy , as has already happened to its competitor , chrysler .
us president barack obama has given gm an end-of-may deadline for a new restructuring plan to be implemented . cg / dpa , reuters / ap / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de fiat denies it plans to cut 18,000 jobs , close factories fiat has denied a german news report that it plans to cut 18,000 jobs and close 10 factories in europe , should it succeed in its bid to take over gm 's european operations .
-lrb- 06.05.2009 -rrb- fiat boss commits to opel plants in germany the head of italian automaker fiat , sergio marchionne , has said in an interview he wants to keep open all four opel plants in germany after a possible takeover of the struggling carmaker .
-lrb- 05.05.2009 -rrb- magna meets with guttenberg over possible opel deal representatives from the canadian-austrian car parts supplier have presented germany 's economics minister with a draft plan for bailing out opel .
but the troubled carmaker remains a bone of contention .
-lrb- 28.04.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live sports report listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
travel passau is called the three river city , but it is just as famous for its baroque splendor .
passau - baroque facades and vibrant arts watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
fiat reported to have plans to shut down german opel plant -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 25.03.2011 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de auto industry -pipe- 07.05.2009 fiat reported to have plans to shut down german opel plant großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : at this stage , the road fiat plans to take in its proposed opel takeover is unclear italian auto group fiat could shut down as many as five factories , including one in germany , as part of its plans to take over the european operations of struggling us auto giant , general motors . according to media reports that cite fiat 's proposal to the german government from earlier this week , the opel plant in kaiserslautern would cease operations under fiat .
plants in bochum and the opel headquarters at ruesselsheim would , according to the reports , be scaled down , as part of " project phoenix " .
one gm plant in england , one in austria , as well as two italian factories would also be part of the shutdown list , according to the reports .
however , this contradicts fiat ceo sergio marchionne 's denial earlier this week that any of opel 's four german plans would be closed . job cuts " inevitable " - no matter who takes over bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : opel employees ' fate is still very much up in the air armin schild , a member of opel 's supervisory board , said job cuts would be inevitable in a takeover of opel .
job cut plans are one of the key criteria on which the suitability of potential investors in opel will be judged , according to a checklist drawn up by vice-chancellor frank-walter steinmeier -lrb- spd -rrb- , who will is to challenge chancellor angela merkel -lrb- cdu -rrb- in september 's federal election .
schild , who represents labor union ig metall on the board , also said the austrian-canadian car parts maker magna has so far presented a more concrete takeover proposal .
media reports have said that possible partners for magna include russian carmaker gaz as well as russia 's sberbank .
gaz and its owner , billionaire oleg deripaska , have repeatedly denied interest .
general motors teeters on bridge of bankruptcy meanwhile , opel 's parent company , general motors , has announced a quarterly net loss of six billion dollars -lrb- 4.5 billion euros -rrb- - its eighth quarterly loss in a row .
it also announced a loss of 2 billion dollars -lrb- 1.5 billion euros -rrb- from its european operations .
revenue dropped by 47 percent , to 22.4 billion dollars .
gm , the largest us carmaker , is currently operating under a us federal bail-out plan .
it is threatened with bankruptcy , as has already happened to its competitor , chrysler .
us president barack obama has given gm an end-of-may deadline for a new restructuring plan to be implemented . cg / dpa , reuters / ap / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de fiat denies it plans to cut 18,000 jobs , close factories fiat has denied a german news report that it plans to cut 18,000 jobs and close 10 factories in europe , should it succeed in its bid to take over gm 's european operations .
-lrb- 06.05.2009 -rrb- fiat boss commits to opel plants in germany the head of italian automaker fiat , sergio marchionne , has said in an interview he wants to keep open all four opel plants in germany after a possible takeover of the struggling carmaker .
-lrb- 05.05.2009 -rrb- magna meets with guttenberg over possible opel deal representatives from the canadian-austrian car parts supplier have presented germany 's economics minister with a draft plan for bailing out opel .
but the troubled carmaker remains a bone of contention .
-lrb- 28.04.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
fiat reported to have plans to shut down german opel plant -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 09.11.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de auto industry -pipe- 07.05.2009 fiat reported to have plans to shut down german opel plant großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : at this stage , the road fiat plans to take in its proposed opel takeover is unclear italian auto group fiat could shut down as many as five factories , including one in germany , as part of its plans to take over the european operations of struggling us auto giant , general motors . according to media reports that cite fiat 's proposal to the german government from earlier this week , the opel plant in kaiserslautern would cease operations under fiat .
plants in bochum and the opel headquarters at ruesselsheim would , according to the reports , be scaled down , as part of " project phoenix " .
one gm plant in england , one in austria , as well as two italian factories would also be part of the shutdown list , according to the reports .
however , this contradicts fiat ceo sergio marchionne 's denial earlier this week that any of opel 's four german plans would be closed . job cuts " inevitable " - no matter who takes over bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : opel employees ' fate is still very much up in the air armin schild , a member of opel 's supervisory board , said job cuts would be inevitable in a takeover of opel .
job cut plans are one of the key criteria on which the suitability of potential investors in opel will be judged , according to a checklist drawn up by vice-chancellor frank-walter steinmeier -lrb- spd -rrb- , who will is to challenge chancellor angela merkel -lrb- cdu -rrb- in september 's federal election .
schild , who represents labor union ig metall on the board , also said the austrian-canadian car parts maker magna has so far presented a more concrete takeover proposal .
media reports have said that possible partners for magna include russian carmaker gaz as well as russia 's sberbank .
gaz and its owner , billionaire oleg deripaska , have repeatedly denied interest .
general motors teeters on bridge of bankruptcy meanwhile , opel 's parent company , general motors , has announced a quarterly net loss of six billion dollars -lrb- 4.5 billion euros -rrb- - its eighth quarterly loss in a row .
it also announced a loss of 2 billion dollars -lrb- 1.5 billion euros -rrb- from its european operations .
revenue dropped by 47 percent , to 22.4 billion dollars .
gm , the largest us carmaker , is currently operating under a us federal bail-out plan .
it is threatened with bankruptcy , as has already happened to its competitor , chrysler .
us president barack obama has given gm an end-of-may deadline for a new restructuring plan to be implemented . cg / dpa , reuters / ap / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de fiat denies it plans to cut 18,000 jobs , close factories fiat has denied a german news report that it plans to cut 18,000 jobs and close 10 factories in europe , should it succeed in its bid to take over gm 's european operations .
-lrb- 06.05.2009 -rrb- fiat boss commits to opel plants in germany the head of italian automaker fiat , sergio marchionne , has said in an interview he wants to keep open all four opel plants in germany after a possible takeover of the struggling carmaker .
-lrb- 05.05.2009 -rrb- magna meets with guttenberg over possible opel deal representatives from the canadian-austrian car parts supplier have presented germany 's economics minister with a draft plan for bailing out opel .
but the troubled carmaker remains a bone of contention .
-lrb- 28.04.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live global 3000 we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inspired minds listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
fiat reported to have plans to shut down german opel plant -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 28.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de auto industry -pipe- 07.05.2009 fiat reported to have plans to shut down german opel plant großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : at this stage , the road fiat plans to take in its proposed opel takeover is unclear italian auto group fiat could shut down as many as five factories , including one in germany , as part of its plans to take over the european operations of struggling us auto giant , general motors . according to media reports that cite fiat 's proposal to the german government from earlier this week , the opel plant in kaiserslautern would cease operations under fiat .
plants in bochum and the opel headquarters at ruesselsheim would , according to the reports , be scaled down , as part of " project phoenix " .
one gm plant in england , one in austria , as well as two italian factories would also be part of the shutdown list , according to the reports .
however , this contradicts fiat ceo sergio marchionne 's denial earlier this week that any of opel 's four german plans would be closed . job cuts " inevitable " - no matter who takes over bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : opel employees ' fate is still very much up in the air armin schild , a member of opel 's supervisory board , said job cuts would be inevitable in a takeover of opel .
job cut plans are one of the key criteria on which the suitability of potential investors in opel will be judged , according to a checklist drawn up by vice-chancellor frank-walter steinmeier -lrb- spd -rrb- , who will is to challenge chancellor angela merkel -lrb- cdu -rrb- in september 's federal election .
schild , who represents labor union ig metall on the board , also said the austrian-canadian car parts maker magna has so far presented a more concrete takeover proposal .
media reports have said that possible partners for magna include russian carmaker gaz as well as russia 's sberbank .
gaz and its owner , billionaire oleg deripaska , have repeatedly denied interest .
general motors teeters on bridge of bankruptcy meanwhile , opel 's parent company , general motors , has announced a quarterly net loss of six billion dollars -lrb- 4.5 billion euros -rrb- - its eighth quarterly loss in a row .
it also announced a loss of 2 billion dollars -lrb- 1.5 billion euros -rrb- from its european operations .
revenue dropped by 47 percent , to 22.4 billion dollars .
gm , the largest us carmaker , is currently operating under a us federal bail-out plan .
it is threatened with bankruptcy , as has already happened to its competitor , chrysler .
us president barack obama has given gm an end-of-may deadline for a new restructuring plan to be implemented . cg / dpa , reuters / ap / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de fiat denies it plans to cut 18,000 jobs , close factories fiat has denied a german news report that it plans to cut 18,000 jobs and close 10 factories in europe , should it succeed in its bid to take over gm 's european operations .
-lrb- 06.05.2009 -rrb- fiat boss commits to opel plants in germany the head of italian automaker fiat , sergio marchionne , has said in an interview he wants to keep open all four opel plants in germany after a possible takeover of the struggling carmaker .
-lrb- 05.05.2009 -rrb- magna meets with guttenberg over possible opel deal representatives from the canadian-austrian car parts supplier have presented germany 's economics minister with a draft plan for bailing out opel .
but the troubled carmaker remains a bone of contention .
-lrb- 28.04.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live europa aktuell we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live arts on the air listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
fiat reported to have plans to shut down german opel plant -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 01.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de auto industry -pipe- 07.05.2009 fiat reported to have plans to shut down german opel plant großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : at this stage , the road fiat plans to take in its proposed opel takeover is unclear italian auto group fiat could shut down as many as five factories , including one in germany , as part of its plans to take over the european operations of struggling us auto giant , general motors . according to media reports that cite fiat 's proposal to the german government from earlier this week , the opel plant in kaiserslautern would cease operations under fiat .
plants in bochum and the opel headquarters at ruesselsheim would , according to the reports , be scaled down , as part of " project phoenix " .
one gm plant in england , one in austria , as well as two italian factories would also be part of the shutdown list , according to the reports .
however , this contradicts fiat ceo sergio marchionne 's denial earlier this week that any of opel 's four german plans would be closed . job cuts " inevitable " - no matter who takes over bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : opel employees ' fate is still very much up in the air armin schild , a member of opel 's supervisory board , said job cuts would be inevitable in a takeover of opel .
job cut plans are one of the key criteria on which the suitability of potential investors in opel will be judged , according to a checklist drawn up by vice-chancellor frank-walter steinmeier -lrb- spd -rrb- , who will is to challenge chancellor angela merkel -lrb- cdu -rrb- in september 's federal election .
schild , who represents labor union ig metall on the board , also said the austrian-canadian car parts maker magna has so far presented a more concrete takeover proposal .
media reports have said that possible partners for magna include russian carmaker gaz as well as russia 's sberbank .
gaz and its owner , billionaire oleg deripaska , have repeatedly denied interest .
general motors teeters on bridge of bankruptcy meanwhile , opel 's parent company , general motors , has announced a quarterly net loss of six billion dollars -lrb- 4.5 billion euros -rrb- - its eighth quarterly loss in a row .
it also announced a loss of 2 billion dollars -lrb- 1.5 billion euros -rrb- from its european operations .
revenue dropped by 47 percent , to 22.4 billion dollars .
gm , the largest us carmaker , is currently operating under a us federal bail-out plan .
it is threatened with bankruptcy , as has already happened to its competitor , chrysler .
us president barack obama has given gm an end-of-may deadline for a new restructuring plan to be implemented . cg / dpa , reuters / ap / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de fiat denies it plans to cut 18,000 jobs , close factories fiat has denied a german news report that it plans to cut 18,000 jobs and close 10 factories in europe , should it succeed in its bid to take over gm 's european operations .
-lrb- 06.05.2009 -rrb- fiat boss commits to opel plants in germany the head of italian automaker fiat , sergio marchionne , has said in an interview he wants to keep open all four opel plants in germany after a possible takeover of the struggling carmaker .
-lrb- 05.05.2009 -rrb- magna meets with guttenberg over possible opel deal representatives from the canadian-austrian car parts supplier have presented germany 's economics minister with a draft plan for bailing out opel .
but the troubled carmaker remains a bone of contention .
-lrb- 28.04.2009 -rrb- 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live europa aktuell we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live world in progress as south sudan independence nears , threat of death is constant listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
animals wild boars with hearty appetites are proving problematic in berlin , where food is plentiful .
listen to the audio feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
fiat reported to have plans to shut down german opel plant -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 06.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de auto industry -pipe- 07.05.2009 fiat reported to have plans to shut down german opel plant großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : at this stage , the road fiat plans to take in its proposed opel takeover is unclear italian auto group fiat could shut down as many as five factories , including one in germany , as part of its plans to take over the european operations of struggling us auto giant , general motors . according to media reports that cite fiat 's proposal to the german government from earlier this week , the opel plant in kaiserslautern would cease operations under fiat .
plants in bochum and the opel headquarters at ruesselsheim would , according to the reports , be scaled down , as part of " project phoenix " .
one gm plant in england , one in austria , as well as two italian factories would also be part of the shutdown list , according to the reports .
however , this contradicts fiat ceo sergio marchionne 's denial earlier this week that any of opel 's four german plans would be closed . job cuts " inevitable " - no matter who takes over bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : opel employees ' fate is still very much up in the air armin schild , a member of opel 's supervisory board , said job cuts would be inevitable in a takeover of opel .
job cut plans are one of the key criteria on which the suitability of potential investors in opel will be judged , according to a checklist drawn up by vice-chancellor frank-walter steinmeier -lrb- spd -rrb- , who will is to challenge chancellor angela merkel -lrb- cdu -rrb- in september 's federal election .
schild , who represents labor union ig metall on the board , also said the austrian-canadian car parts maker magna has so far presented a more concrete takeover proposal .
media reports have said that possible partners for magna include russian carmaker gaz as well as russia 's sberbank .
gaz and its owner , billionaire oleg deripaska , have repeatedly denied interest .
general motors teeters on bridge of bankruptcy meanwhile , opel 's parent company , general motors , has announced a quarterly net loss of six billion dollars -lrb- 4.5 billion euros -rrb- - its eighth quarterly loss in a row .
it also announced a loss of 2 billion dollars -lrb- 1.5 billion euros -rrb- from its european operations .
revenue dropped by 47 percent , to 22.4 billion dollars .
gm , the largest us carmaker , is currently operating under a us federal bail-out plan .
it is threatened with bankruptcy , as has already happened to its competitor , chrysler .
us president barack obama has given gm an end-of-may deadline for a new restructuring plan to be implemented . cg / dpa , reuters / ap / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de fiat denies it plans to cut 18,000 jobs , close factories fiat has denied a german news report that it plans to cut 18,000 jobs and close 10 factories in europe , should it succeed in its bid to take over gm 's european operations .
-lrb- 06.05.2009 -rrb- fiat boss commits to opel plants in germany the head of italian automaker fiat , sergio marchionne , has said in an interview he wants to keep open all four opel plants in germany after a possible takeover of the struggling carmaker .
-lrb- 05.05.2009 -rrb- magna meets with guttenberg over possible opel deal representatives from the canadian-austrian car parts supplier have presented germany 's economics minister with a draft plan for bailing out opel .
but the troubled carmaker remains a bone of contention .
-lrb- 28.04.2009 -rrb- 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - news with business we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
art german photographer lala aufsberg 's work is a fascinating historical record of the 20th century .
watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
eu approves commerzbank bailout -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business 125 years automobile science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de banking -pipe- 07.05.2009 eu approves commerzbank bailout großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : commerzbank was the first german bank to tap into the government 's rescue fund brussels has approved an 18-billion-euro government bailout of germany ’ s second largest bank .
the eu had requested assurances that the money will not give the bank an unfair edge over competitors . part of the money is already on commerzbank 's balance sheets after berlin injected 8 billion euros -lrb- $ 10.6 billion -rrb- into the bank in december last year .
now , commerzbank stands to receive another 10 billion euros of fresh capital .
berlin however needed the approval of brussels and on thursday the eu commission gave its green light .
" on the basis of the notified plans , the commission is satisfied that commerzbank 's long term viability has been demonstrated , and that the aid is kept to the minimum and will not lead to undue distortions of competition .
it has therefore declared the aid compatible , " the eu executive said in a statement .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : frankfurt 's skyline of bank headquarters was rocked by the global finacial crisis but the government aid will be tied to strict restructuring conditions .
commerzbank will have to sell its eurohypo unit , a major european player in the real estate business .
in addition , the bank will be banned for three years from buying other financial institutes that it competes with .
commerzbank , which is germany 's second largest private bank with a balance sheet total of 1,100 billion euros of capital , ran into financial trouble as a result of the global credit crunch .
berlin has welcomed the decision from brussels .
a government spokeswoman said it was " an important step to strengthen the trust in the government 's bailout fund . "
in the wake of the global financial crisis , germany has created a 470-billion-euro rescue fund to support the struggling sector . ai / rm , dpa / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de conditions for commerzbank aid package appear to be set the european commission has set conditions for commerzbank to get an 18 billion euros -lrb- $ 23 billion -rrb- rescue package from the german government .
the bank is expected to shed its eurohypo unit .
-lrb- 22.04.2009 -rrb- german government takes large stake in commerzbank the german government has agreed to take a 25-percent share in commerzbank .
the move signals the first time the government has taken a stake in a major private bank and comes as commerzbank is set to buy dresdner bank .
-lrb- 09.01.2009 -rrb- merkel seeks to make bank bailouts more attractive germany 's rescue package for struggling banks may be in for a revamp to make it more appealing to financial institutions that have so far rejected it , german media reported tuesday .
-lrb- 02.12.2008 -rrb- 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-tv europe live global 3000 - the globalization program we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inspired minds listen live stock exchange today in history 1988 : compensation for forced laborers dw-tv get an inside look at some of germany 's more unusual companies .
flying the german flag - costly voyages for shipping companies captains in the classroom - rostock 's maritime school organbuilding - the art and craft of the perfect sound saving makes cents – new heating technology for industry © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
eu approves commerzbank bailout -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 22.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business 125 years automobile science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de banking -pipe- 07.05.2009 eu approves commerzbank bailout großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : commerzbank was the first german bank to tap into the government 's rescue fund brussels has approved an 18-billion-euro government bailout of germany ’ s second largest bank .
the eu had requested assurances that the money will not give the bank an unfair edge over competitors . part of the money is already on commerzbank 's balance sheets after berlin injected 8 billion euros -lrb- $ 10.6 billion -rrb- into the bank in december last year .
now , commerzbank stands to receive another 10 billion euros of fresh capital .
berlin however needed the approval of brussels and on thursday the eu commission gave its green light .
" on the basis of the notified plans , the commission is satisfied that commerzbank 's long term viability has been demonstrated , and that the aid is kept to the minimum and will not lead to undue distortions of competition .
it has therefore declared the aid compatible , " the eu executive said in a statement .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : frankfurt 's skyline of bank headquarters was rocked by the global finacial crisis but the government aid will be tied to strict restructuring conditions .
commerzbank will have to sell its eurohypo unit , a major european player in the real estate business .
in addition , the bank will be banned for three years from buying other financial institutes that it competes with .
commerzbank , which is germany 's second largest private bank with a balance sheet total of 1,100 billion euros of capital , ran into financial trouble as a result of the global credit crunch .
berlin has welcomed the decision from brussels .
a government spokeswoman said it was " an important step to strengthen the trust in the government 's bailout fund . "
in the wake of the global financial crisis , germany has created a 470-billion-euro rescue fund to support the struggling sector . ai / rm , dpa / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de conditions for commerzbank aid package appear to be set the european commission has set conditions for commerzbank to get an 18 billion euros -lrb- $ 23 billion -rrb- rescue package from the german government .
the bank is expected to shed its eurohypo unit .
-lrb- 22.04.2009 -rrb- german government takes large stake in commerzbank the german government has agreed to take a 25-percent share in commerzbank .
the move signals the first time the government has taken a stake in a major private bank and comes as commerzbank is set to buy dresdner bank .
-lrb- 09.01.2009 -rrb- merkel seeks to make bank bailouts more attractive germany 's rescue package for struggling banks may be in for a revamp to make it more appealing to financial institutions that have so far rejected it , german media reported tuesday .
-lrb- 02.12.2008 -rrb- 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live stock exchange today in history 1986 : great britain bans the cane dw-tv get an inside look at some of germany 's more unusual companies .
flying the german flag - costly voyages for shipping companies captains in the classroom - rostock 's maritime school organbuilding - the art and craft of the perfect sound saving makes cents – new heating technology for industry © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
eu approves commerzbank bailout -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de banking -pipe- 07.05.2009 eu approves commerzbank bailout großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : commerzbank was the first german bank to tap into the government 's rescue fund brussels has approved an 18-billion-euro government bailout of germany ’ s second largest bank .
the eu had requested assurances that the money will not give the bank an unfair edge over competitors . part of the money is already on commerzbank 's balance sheets after berlin injected 8 billion euros -lrb- $ 10.6 billion -rrb- into the bank in december last year .
now , commerzbank stands to receive another 10 billion euros of fresh capital .
berlin however needed the approval of brussels and on thursday the eu commission gave its green light .
" on the basis of the notified plans , the commission is satisfied that commerzbank 's long term viability has been demonstrated , and that the aid is kept to the minimum and will not lead to undue distortions of competition .
it has therefore declared the aid compatible , " the eu executive said in a statement .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : frankfurt 's skyline of bank headquarters was rocked by the global finacial crisis but the government aid will be tied to strict restructuring conditions .
commerzbank will have to sell its eurohypo unit , a major european player in the real estate business .
in addition , the bank will be banned for three years from buying other financial institutes that it competes with .
commerzbank , which is germany 's second largest private bank with a balance sheet total of 1,100 billion euros of capital , ran into financial trouble as a result of the global credit crunch .
berlin has welcomed the decision from brussels .
a government spokeswoman said it was " an important step to strengthen the trust in the government 's bailout fund . "
in the wake of the global financial crisis , germany has created a 470-billion-euro rescue fund to support the struggling sector . ai / rm , dpa / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de conditions for commerzbank aid package appear to be set the european commission has set conditions for commerzbank to get an 18 billion euros -lrb- $ 23 billion -rrb- rescue package from the german government .
the bank is expected to shed its eurohypo unit .
-lrb- 22.04.2009 -rrb- german government takes large stake in commerzbank the german government has agreed to take a 25-percent share in commerzbank .
the move signals the first time the government has taken a stake in a major private bank and comes as commerzbank is set to buy dresdner bank .
-lrb- 09.01.2009 -rrb- merkel seeks to make bank bailouts more attractive germany 's rescue package for struggling banks may be in for a revamp to make it more appealing to financial institutions that have so far rejected it , german media reported tuesday .
-lrb- 02.12.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live world in progress development in a globalized world listen live stock exchange today in history 1934 : the " long march " begins © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
eu approves commerzbank bailout -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.03.2011 home news germany europe world asia business 125 years automobile science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de banking -pipe- 07.05.2009 eu approves commerzbank bailout großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : commerzbank was the first german bank to tap into the government 's rescue fund brussels has approved an 18-billion-euro government bailout of germany ’ s second largest bank .
the eu had requested assurances that the money will not give the bank an unfair edge over competitors . part of the money is already on commerzbank 's balance sheets after berlin injected 8 billion euros -lrb- $ 10.6 billion -rrb- into the bank in december last year .
now , commerzbank stands to receive another 10 billion euros of fresh capital .
berlin however needed the approval of brussels and on thursday the eu commission gave its green light .
" on the basis of the notified plans , the commission is satisfied that commerzbank 's long term viability has been demonstrated , and that the aid is kept to the minimum and will not lead to undue distortions of competition .
it has therefore declared the aid compatible , " the eu executive said in a statement .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : frankfurt 's skyline of bank headquarters was rocked by the global finacial crisis but the government aid will be tied to strict restructuring conditions .
commerzbank will have to sell its eurohypo unit , a major european player in the real estate business .
in addition , the bank will be banned for three years from buying other financial institutes that it competes with .
commerzbank , which is germany 's second largest private bank with a balance sheet total of 1,100 billion euros of capital , ran into financial trouble as a result of the global credit crunch .
berlin has welcomed the decision from brussels .
a government spokeswoman said it was " an important step to strengthen the trust in the government 's bailout fund . "
in the wake of the global financial crisis , germany has created a 470-billion-euro rescue fund to support the struggling sector . ai / rm , dpa / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de conditions for commerzbank aid package appear to be set the european commission has set conditions for commerzbank to get an 18 billion euros -lrb- $ 23 billion -rrb- rescue package from the german government .
the bank is expected to shed its eurohypo unit .
-lrb- 22.04.2009 -rrb- german government takes large stake in commerzbank the german government has agreed to take a 25-percent share in commerzbank .
the move signals the first time the government has taken a stake in a major private bank and comes as commerzbank is set to buy dresdner bank .
-lrb- 09.01.2009 -rrb- merkel seeks to make bank bailouts more attractive germany 's rescue package for struggling banks may be in for a revamp to make it more appealing to financial institutions that have so far rejected it , german media reported tuesday .
-lrb- 02.12.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week money , power and heavy metal : listen to the latest european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inspired minds listen live banking get an inside look at some of germany 's more unusual companies .
olkiluoto 3 - finland builds the world 's biggest nuclear power plant nuclear power plants : after a shutdown peter paffhausen : from nuclear manager to green energy advocate heightened fears : geiger counters fly off the shelves stock exchange today in history 1871 : the paris commune © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
eu approves commerzbank bailout -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 30.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business 125 years automobile science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de banking -pipe- 07.05.2009 eu approves commerzbank bailout großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : commerzbank was the first german bank to tap into the government 's rescue fund brussels has approved an 18-billion-euro government bailout of germany ’ s second largest bank .
the eu had requested assurances that the money will not give the bank an unfair edge over competitors . part of the money is already on commerzbank 's balance sheets after berlin injected 8 billion euros -lrb- $ 10.6 billion -rrb- into the bank in december last year .
now , commerzbank stands to receive another 10 billion euros of fresh capital .
berlin however needed the approval of brussels and on thursday the eu commission gave its green light .
" on the basis of the notified plans , the commission is satisfied that commerzbank 's long term viability has been demonstrated , and that the aid is kept to the minimum and will not lead to undue distortions of competition .
it has therefore declared the aid compatible , " the eu executive said in a statement .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : frankfurt 's skyline of bank headquarters was rocked by the global finacial crisis but the government aid will be tied to strict restructuring conditions .
commerzbank will have to sell its eurohypo unit , a major european player in the real estate business .
in addition , the bank will be banned for three years from buying other financial institutes that it competes with .
commerzbank , which is germany 's second largest private bank with a balance sheet total of 1,100 billion euros of capital , ran into financial trouble as a result of the global credit crunch .
berlin has welcomed the decision from brussels .
a government spokeswoman said it was " an important step to strengthen the trust in the government 's bailout fund . "
in the wake of the global financial crisis , germany has created a 470-billion-euro rescue fund to support the struggling sector . ai / rm , dpa / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de conditions for commerzbank aid package appear to be set the european commission has set conditions for commerzbank to get an 18 billion euros -lrb- $ 23 billion -rrb- rescue package from the german government .
the bank is expected to shed its eurohypo unit .
-lrb- 22.04.2009 -rrb- german government takes large stake in commerzbank the german government has agreed to take a 25-percent share in commerzbank .
the move signals the first time the government has taken a stake in a major private bank and comes as commerzbank is set to buy dresdner bank .
-lrb- 09.01.2009 -rrb- merkel seeks to make bank bailouts more attractive germany 's rescue package for struggling banks may be in for a revamp to make it more appealing to financial institutions that have so far rejected it , german media reported tuesday .
-lrb- 02.12.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-tv europe live quadriga we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inside europe listen live dw-tv get an inside look at some of germany 's more unusual companies .
export champion - surteco makes the furniture industry go round freedom of movement - working across eu borders real estate boom - more and more people are investing in berlin audi and the dtm , part 3 - big race , big business stock exchange today in history 1945 : liberation of dachau © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
eu approves commerzbank bailout -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 19.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de banking -pipe- 07.05.2009 eu approves commerzbank bailout großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : commerzbank was the first german bank to tap into the government 's rescue fund brussels has approved an 18-billion-euro government bailout of germany ’ s second largest bank .
the eu had requested assurances that the money will not give the bank an unfair edge over competitors . part of the money is already on commerzbank 's balance sheets after berlin injected 8 billion euros -lrb- $ 10.6 billion -rrb- into the bank in december last year .
now , commerzbank stands to receive another 10 billion euros of fresh capital .
berlin however needed the approval of brussels and on thursday the eu commission gave its green light .
" on the basis of the notified plans , the commission is satisfied that commerzbank 's long term viability has been demonstrated , and that the aid is kept to the minimum and will not lead to undue distortions of competition .
it has therefore declared the aid compatible , " the eu executive said in a statement .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : frankfurt 's skyline of bank headquarters was rocked by the global finacial crisis but the government aid will be tied to strict restructuring conditions .
commerzbank will have to sell its eurohypo unit , a major european player in the real estate business .
in addition , the bank will be banned for three years from buying other financial institutes that it competes with .
commerzbank , which is germany 's second largest private bank with a balance sheet total of 1,100 billion euros of capital , ran into financial trouble as a result of the global credit crunch .
berlin has welcomed the decision from brussels .
a government spokeswoman said it was " an important step to strengthen the trust in the government 's bailout fund . "
in the wake of the global financial crisis , germany has created a 470-billion-euro rescue fund to support the struggling sector . ai / rm , dpa / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de conditions for commerzbank aid package appear to be set the european commission has set conditions for commerzbank to get an 18 billion euros -lrb- $ 23 billion -rrb- rescue package from the german government .
the bank is expected to shed its eurohypo unit .
-lrb- 22.04.2009 -rrb- german government takes large stake in commerzbank the german government has agreed to take a 25-percent share in commerzbank .
the move signals the first time the government has taken a stake in a major private bank and comes as commerzbank is set to buy dresdner bank .
-lrb- 09.01.2009 -rrb- merkel seeks to make bank bailouts more attractive germany 's rescue package for struggling banks may be in for a revamp to make it more appealing to financial institutions that have so far rejected it , german media reported tuesday .
-lrb- 02.12.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live in-box feedback from around the world listen live stock exchange today in history 1917 : ufa established © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
eu approves commerzbank bailout -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 22.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de banking -pipe- 07.05.2009 eu approves commerzbank bailout großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : commerzbank was the first german bank to tap into the government 's rescue fund brussels has approved an 18-billion-euro government bailout of germany ’ s second largest bank .
the eu had requested assurances that the money will not give the bank an unfair edge over competitors . part of the money is already on commerzbank 's balance sheets after berlin injected 8 billion euros -lrb- $ 10.6 billion -rrb- into the bank in december last year .
now , commerzbank stands to receive another 10 billion euros of fresh capital .
berlin however needed the approval of brussels and on thursday the eu commission gave its green light .
" on the basis of the notified plans , the commission is satisfied that commerzbank 's long term viability has been demonstrated , and that the aid is kept to the minimum and will not lead to undue distortions of competition .
it has therefore declared the aid compatible , " the eu executive said in a statement .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : frankfurt 's skyline of bank headquarters was rocked by the global finacial crisis but the government aid will be tied to strict restructuring conditions .
commerzbank will have to sell its eurohypo unit , a major european player in the real estate business .
in addition , the bank will be banned for three years from buying other financial institutes that it competes with .
commerzbank , which is germany 's second largest private bank with a balance sheet total of 1,100 billion euros of capital , ran into financial trouble as a result of the global credit crunch .
berlin has welcomed the decision from brussels .
a government spokeswoman said it was " an important step to strengthen the trust in the government 's bailout fund . "
in the wake of the global financial crisis , germany has created a 470-billion-euro rescue fund to support the struggling sector . ai / rm , dpa / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de conditions for commerzbank aid package appear to be set the european commission has set conditions for commerzbank to get an 18 billion euros -lrb- $ 23 billion -rrb- rescue package from the german government .
the bank is expected to shed its eurohypo unit .
-lrb- 22.04.2009 -rrb- german government takes large stake in commerzbank the german government has agreed to take a 25-percent share in commerzbank .
the move signals the first time the government has taken a stake in a major private bank and comes as commerzbank is set to buy dresdner bank .
-lrb- 09.01.2009 -rrb- merkel seeks to make bank bailouts more attractive germany 's rescue package for struggling banks may be in for a revamp to make it more appealing to financial institutions that have so far rejected it , german media reported tuesday .
-lrb- 02.12.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live pulse listen live stock exchange today in history 1984 : kohl and mitterrand in verdun © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
berlin holds 47 percent of troubled hypo real estate -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 20.09.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de economy -pipe- 07.05.2009 berlin holds 47 percent of troubled hypo real estate großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : berlin 's buy up of shares has given the green light to nationalization the german government has announced it now holds more than 47 percent of the mortgage lender , hypo real estate , following its decision to take over the troubled lender . the government 's financial market stabilization fund , soffin , now holds a 47.31 percent share of munich-based hre , after the government 's bid to buy up shareholders ' stock .
the government 's offer , worth 290 million euros -lrb- $ 386 million -rrb- , expired at midnight monday .
each share had a cash offer of 1.39 euros .
in berlin , finance minister peer steinbrueck said he was pleased with the results of the share buy offer .
" this now means the government can continue with the planned takeover of hre shares , according to stock corporation law , " he said .
" only with the complete government takeover can hre 's survival be ensured and the taxpayers ' interests protected , " steinbrueck added . despite the fact that berlin failed to come up with 50 percent of shares , steinbrueck said that soffin could complete a takeover of the firm through means made available by german shareholder law .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : soffin 's rehm says hypo needs to be rescued to ensure the stabilty of germany 's economy hannes rehm , chairman of the soffin management committee , is optimistic that will happen : " we will consistently pursue our efforts to stabilize hre , " he said .
" the bank is of systemic relevance and must be rescued in order to ensure stability of the financial markets and the german economy .
i expect the envisaged capital increase to be approved by the extraordinary general meeting , " he added .
a capital increase is a type of equity issuance in which new stocks are offered for sale .
hre shareholders have been invited to the extraordinary general meeting on june 2 .
at the meeting , soffin will subscribe all of the new shares , excluding subscription rights of the shareholders .
this will give it a majority of 90 percent , as well as voting rights .
that will pave the way for a takeover of the shares held by the remaining minority shareholders - through a so-called " squeeze-out " procedure .
soffin does not expect the price to exceed the original offer price of 1.39 euros per share .
us private equity firm jc flowers & co , which rejects the government 's plans , still owns about 14 percent of hre . cg / rm , reuters / dp / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de nationalization is on the horizon for beleagered hypo real estate bank the german government has invested more than 100 billion euros in ailing mortgage lender hypo real estate bank to ensure it does n't collapse - now it wants total control .
-lrb- 05.05.2009 -rrb- hre to post more losses , takeover deadline looms as the german government and a us investment group battle over shares in the hypo real estate bank , it seems the struggling lender is still losing money .
-lrb- 04.05.2009 -rrb- flowers rejects government takeover bid for hre a major legal battle for the ownership of german bank hypo real estate is looming after a major investor rejected a bid from the german government .
-lrb- 30.04.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live tomorrow today we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live music this week international peace day - september 21 listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
berlin holds 47 percent of troubled hypo real estate -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 26.10.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de economy -pipe- 07.05.2009 berlin holds 47 percent of troubled hypo real estate großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : berlin 's buy up of shares has given the green light to nationalization the german government has announced it now holds more than 47 percent of the mortgage lender , hypo real estate , following its decision to take over the troubled lender . the government 's financial market stabilization fund , soffin , now holds a 47.31 percent share of munich-based hre , after the government 's bid to buy up shareholders ' stock .
the government 's offer , worth 290 million euros -lrb- $ 386 million -rrb- , expired at midnight monday .
each share had a cash offer of 1.39 euros .
in berlin , finance minister peer steinbrueck said he was pleased with the results of the share buy offer .
" this now means the government can continue with the planned takeover of hre shares , according to stock corporation law , " he said .
" only with the complete government takeover can hre 's survival be ensured and the taxpayers ' interests protected , " steinbrueck added . despite the fact that berlin failed to come up with 50 percent of shares , steinbrueck said that soffin could complete a takeover of the firm through means made available by german shareholder law .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : soffin 's rehm says hypo needs to be rescued to ensure the stabilty of germany 's economy hannes rehm , chairman of the soffin management committee , is optimistic that will happen : " we will consistently pursue our efforts to stabilize hre , " he said .
" the bank is of systemic relevance and must be rescued in order to ensure stability of the financial markets and the german economy .
i expect the envisaged capital increase to be approved by the extraordinary general meeting , " he added .
a capital increase is a type of equity issuance in which new stocks are offered for sale .
hre shareholders have been invited to the extraordinary general meeting on june 2 .
at the meeting , soffin will subscribe all of the new shares , excluding subscription rights of the shareholders .
this will give it a majority of 90 percent , as well as voting rights .
that will pave the way for a takeover of the shares held by the remaining minority shareholders - through a so-called " squeeze-out " procedure .
soffin does not expect the price to exceed the original offer price of 1.39 euros per share .
us private equity firm jc flowers & co , which rejects the government 's plans , still owns about 14 percent of hre . cg / rm , reuters / dp / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de nationalization is on the horizon for beleagered hypo real estate bank the german government has invested more than 100 billion euros in ailing mortgage lender hypo real estate bank to ensure it does n't collapse - now it wants total control .
-lrb- 05.05.2009 -rrb- hre to post more losses , takeover deadline looms as the german government and a us investment group battle over shares in the hypo real estate bank , it seems the struggling lender is still losing money .
-lrb- 04.05.2009 -rrb- flowers rejects government takeover bid for hre a major legal battle for the ownership of german bank hypo real estate is looming after a major investor rejected a bid from the german government .
-lrb- 30.04.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live im focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live living in germany listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
berlin holds 47 percent of troubled hypo real estate -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.12.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de economy -pipe- 07.05.2009 berlin holds 47 percent of troubled hypo real estate großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : berlin 's buy up of shares has given the green light to nationalization the german government has announced it now holds more than 47 percent of the mortgage lender , hypo real estate , following its decision to take over the troubled lender . the government 's financial market stabilization fund , soffin , now holds a 47.31 percent share of munich-based hre , after the government 's bid to buy up shareholders ' stock .
the government 's offer , worth 290 million euros -lrb- $ 386 million -rrb- , expired at midnight monday .
each share had a cash offer of 1.39 euros .
in berlin , finance minister peer steinbrueck said he was pleased with the results of the share buy offer .
" this now means the government can continue with the planned takeover of hre shares , according to stock corporation law , " he said .
" only with the complete government takeover can hre 's survival be ensured and the taxpayers ' interests protected , " steinbrueck added . despite the fact that berlin failed to come up with 50 percent of shares , steinbrueck said that soffin could complete a takeover of the firm through means made available by german shareholder law .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : soffin 's rehm says hypo needs to be rescued to ensure the stabilty of germany 's economy hannes rehm , chairman of the soffin management committee , is optimistic that will happen : " we will consistently pursue our efforts to stabilize hre , " he said .
" the bank is of systemic relevance and must be rescued in order to ensure stability of the financial markets and the german economy .
i expect the envisaged capital increase to be approved by the extraordinary general meeting , " he added .
a capital increase is a type of equity issuance in which new stocks are offered for sale .
hre shareholders have been invited to the extraordinary general meeting on june 2 .
at the meeting , soffin will subscribe all of the new shares , excluding subscription rights of the shareholders .
this will give it a majority of 90 percent , as well as voting rights .
that will pave the way for a takeover of the shares held by the remaining minority shareholders - through a so-called " squeeze-out " procedure .
soffin does not expect the price to exceed the original offer price of 1.39 euros per share .
us private equity firm jc flowers & co , which rejects the government 's plans , still owns about 14 percent of hre . cg / rm , reuters / dp / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de nationalization is on the horizon for beleagered hypo real estate bank the german government has invested more than 100 billion euros in ailing mortgage lender hypo real estate bank to ensure it does n't collapse - now it wants total control .
-lrb- 05.05.2009 -rrb- hre to post more losses , takeover deadline looms as the german government and a us investment group battle over shares in the hypo real estate bank , it seems the struggling lender is still losing money .
-lrb- 04.05.2009 -rrb- flowers rejects government takeover bid for hre a major legal battle for the ownership of german bank hypo real estate is looming after a major investor rejected a bid from the german government .
-lrb- 30.04.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live radio d listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
travel passau is called the three river city , but it is just as famous for its baroque splendor .
passau - baroque facades and vibrant arts watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
berlin holds 47 percent of troubled hypo real estate -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 25.03.2011 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de economy -pipe- 07.05.2009 berlin holds 47 percent of troubled hypo real estate großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : berlin 's buy up of shares has given the green light to nationalization the german government has announced it now holds more than 47 percent of the mortgage lender , hypo real estate , following its decision to take over the troubled lender . the government 's financial market stabilization fund , soffin , now holds a 47.31 percent share of munich-based hre , after the government 's bid to buy up shareholders ' stock .
the government 's offer , worth 290 million euros -lrb- $ 386 million -rrb- , expired at midnight monday .
each share had a cash offer of 1.39 euros .
in berlin , finance minister peer steinbrueck said he was pleased with the results of the share buy offer .
" this now means the government can continue with the planned takeover of hre shares , according to stock corporation law , " he said .
" only with the complete government takeover can hre 's survival be ensured and the taxpayers ' interests protected , " steinbrueck added . despite the fact that berlin failed to come up with 50 percent of shares , steinbrueck said that soffin could complete a takeover of the firm through means made available by german shareholder law .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : soffin 's rehm says hypo needs to be rescued to ensure the stabilty of germany 's economy hannes rehm , chairman of the soffin management committee , is optimistic that will happen : " we will consistently pursue our efforts to stabilize hre , " he said .
" the bank is of systemic relevance and must be rescued in order to ensure stability of the financial markets and the german economy .
i expect the envisaged capital increase to be approved by the extraordinary general meeting , " he added .
a capital increase is a type of equity issuance in which new stocks are offered for sale .
hre shareholders have been invited to the extraordinary general meeting on june 2 .
at the meeting , soffin will subscribe all of the new shares , excluding subscription rights of the shareholders .
this will give it a majority of 90 percent , as well as voting rights .
that will pave the way for a takeover of the shares held by the remaining minority shareholders - through a so-called " squeeze-out " procedure .
soffin does not expect the price to exceed the original offer price of 1.39 euros per share .
us private equity firm jc flowers & co , which rejects the government 's plans , still owns about 14 percent of hre . cg / rm , reuters / dp / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de nationalization is on the horizon for beleagered hypo real estate bank the german government has invested more than 100 billion euros in ailing mortgage lender hypo real estate bank to ensure it does n't collapse - now it wants total control .
-lrb- 05.05.2009 -rrb- hre to post more losses , takeover deadline looms as the german government and a us investment group battle over shares in the hypo real estate bank , it seems the struggling lender is still losing money .
-lrb- 04.05.2009 -rrb- flowers rejects government takeover bid for hre a major legal battle for the ownership of german bank hypo real estate is looming after a major investor rejected a bid from the german government .
-lrb- 30.04.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live popxport we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
berlin holds 47 percent of troubled hypo real estate -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 28.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de economy -pipe- 07.05.2009 berlin holds 47 percent of troubled hypo real estate großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : berlin 's buy up of shares has given the green light to nationalization the german government has announced it now holds more than 47 percent of the mortgage lender , hypo real estate , following its decision to take over the troubled lender . the government 's financial market stabilization fund , soffin , now holds a 47.31 percent share of munich-based hre , after the government 's bid to buy up shareholders ' stock .
the government 's offer , worth 290 million euros -lrb- $ 386 million -rrb- , expired at midnight monday .
each share had a cash offer of 1.39 euros .
in berlin , finance minister peer steinbrueck said he was pleased with the results of the share buy offer .
" this now means the government can continue with the planned takeover of hre shares , according to stock corporation law , " he said .
" only with the complete government takeover can hre 's survival be ensured and the taxpayers ' interests protected , " steinbrueck added . despite the fact that berlin failed to come up with 50 percent of shares , steinbrueck said that soffin could complete a takeover of the firm through means made available by german shareholder law .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : soffin 's rehm says hypo needs to be rescued to ensure the stabilty of germany 's economy hannes rehm , chairman of the soffin management committee , is optimistic that will happen : " we will consistently pursue our efforts to stabilize hre , " he said .
" the bank is of systemic relevance and must be rescued in order to ensure stability of the financial markets and the german economy .
i expect the envisaged capital increase to be approved by the extraordinary general meeting , " he added .
a capital increase is a type of equity issuance in which new stocks are offered for sale .
hre shareholders have been invited to the extraordinary general meeting on june 2 .
at the meeting , soffin will subscribe all of the new shares , excluding subscription rights of the shareholders .
this will give it a majority of 90 percent , as well as voting rights .
that will pave the way for a takeover of the shares held by the remaining minority shareholders - through a so-called " squeeze-out " procedure .
soffin does not expect the price to exceed the original offer price of 1.39 euros per share .
us private equity firm jc flowers & co , which rejects the government 's plans , still owns about 14 percent of hre . cg / rm , reuters / dp / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de nationalization is on the horizon for beleagered hypo real estate bank the german government has invested more than 100 billion euros in ailing mortgage lender hypo real estate bank to ensure it does n't collapse - now it wants total control .
-lrb- 05.05.2009 -rrb- hre to post more losses , takeover deadline looms as the german government and a us investment group battle over shares in the hypo real estate bank , it seems the struggling lender is still losing money .
-lrb- 04.05.2009 -rrb- flowers rejects government takeover bid for hre a major legal battle for the ownership of german bank hypo real estate is looming after a major investor rejected a bid from the german government .
-lrb- 30.04.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live in focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live arts on the air listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
berlin holds 47 percent of troubled hypo real estate -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 01.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de economy -pipe- 07.05.2009 berlin holds 47 percent of troubled hypo real estate großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : berlin 's buy up of shares has given the green light to nationalization the german government has announced it now holds more than 47 percent of the mortgage lender , hypo real estate , following its decision to take over the troubled lender . the government 's financial market stabilization fund , soffin , now holds a 47.31 percent share of munich-based hre , after the government 's bid to buy up shareholders ' stock .
the government 's offer , worth 290 million euros -lrb- $ 386 million -rrb- , expired at midnight monday .
each share had a cash offer of 1.39 euros .
in berlin , finance minister peer steinbrueck said he was pleased with the results of the share buy offer .
" this now means the government can continue with the planned takeover of hre shares , according to stock corporation law , " he said .
" only with the complete government takeover can hre 's survival be ensured and the taxpayers ' interests protected , " steinbrueck added . despite the fact that berlin failed to come up with 50 percent of shares , steinbrueck said that soffin could complete a takeover of the firm through means made available by german shareholder law .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : soffin 's rehm says hypo needs to be rescued to ensure the stabilty of germany 's economy hannes rehm , chairman of the soffin management committee , is optimistic that will happen : " we will consistently pursue our efforts to stabilize hre , " he said .
" the bank is of systemic relevance and must be rescued in order to ensure stability of the financial markets and the german economy .
i expect the envisaged capital increase to be approved by the extraordinary general meeting , " he added .
a capital increase is a type of equity issuance in which new stocks are offered for sale .
hre shareholders have been invited to the extraordinary general meeting on june 2 .
at the meeting , soffin will subscribe all of the new shares , excluding subscription rights of the shareholders .
this will give it a majority of 90 percent , as well as voting rights .
that will pave the way for a takeover of the shares held by the remaining minority shareholders - through a so-called " squeeze-out " procedure .
soffin does not expect the price to exceed the original offer price of 1.39 euros per share .
us private equity firm jc flowers & co , which rejects the government 's plans , still owns about 14 percent of hre . cg / rm , reuters / dp / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de nationalization is on the horizon for beleagered hypo real estate bank the german government has invested more than 100 billion euros in ailing mortgage lender hypo real estate bank to ensure it does n't collapse - now it wants total control .
-lrb- 05.05.2009 -rrb- hre to post more losses , takeover deadline looms as the german government and a us investment group battle over shares in the hypo real estate bank , it seems the struggling lender is still losing money .
-lrb- 04.05.2009 -rrb- flowers rejects government takeover bid for hre a major legal battle for the ownership of german bank hypo real estate is looming after a major investor rejected a bid from the german government .
-lrb- 30.04.2009 -rrb- 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
animals wild boars with hearty appetites are proving problematic in berlin , where food is plentiful .
listen to the audio feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
berlin holds 47 percent of troubled hypo real estate -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 06.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de economy -pipe- 07.05.2009 berlin holds 47 percent of troubled hypo real estate großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : berlin 's buy up of shares has given the green light to nationalization the german government has announced it now holds more than 47 percent of the mortgage lender , hypo real estate , following its decision to take over the troubled lender . the government 's financial market stabilization fund , soffin , now holds a 47.31 percent share of munich-based hre , after the government 's bid to buy up shareholders ' stock .
the government 's offer , worth 290 million euros -lrb- $ 386 million -rrb- , expired at midnight monday .
each share had a cash offer of 1.39 euros .
in berlin , finance minister peer steinbrueck said he was pleased with the results of the share buy offer .
" this now means the government can continue with the planned takeover of hre shares , according to stock corporation law , " he said .
" only with the complete government takeover can hre 's survival be ensured and the taxpayers ' interests protected , " steinbrueck added . despite the fact that berlin failed to come up with 50 percent of shares , steinbrueck said that soffin could complete a takeover of the firm through means made available by german shareholder law .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : soffin 's rehm says hypo needs to be rescued to ensure the stabilty of germany 's economy hannes rehm , chairman of the soffin management committee , is optimistic that will happen : " we will consistently pursue our efforts to stabilize hre , " he said .
" the bank is of systemic relevance and must be rescued in order to ensure stability of the financial markets and the german economy .
i expect the envisaged capital increase to be approved by the extraordinary general meeting , " he added .
a capital increase is a type of equity issuance in which new stocks are offered for sale .
hre shareholders have been invited to the extraordinary general meeting on june 2 .
at the meeting , soffin will subscribe all of the new shares , excluding subscription rights of the shareholders .
this will give it a majority of 90 percent , as well as voting rights .
that will pave the way for a takeover of the shares held by the remaining minority shareholders - through a so-called " squeeze-out " procedure .
soffin does not expect the price to exceed the original offer price of 1.39 euros per share .
us private equity firm jc flowers & co , which rejects the government 's plans , still owns about 14 percent of hre . cg / rm , reuters / dp / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de nationalization is on the horizon for beleagered hypo real estate bank the german government has invested more than 100 billion euros in ailing mortgage lender hypo real estate bank to ensure it does n't collapse - now it wants total control .
-lrb- 05.05.2009 -rrb- hre to post more losses , takeover deadline looms as the german government and a us investment group battle over shares in the hypo real estate bank , it seems the struggling lender is still losing money .
-lrb- 04.05.2009 -rrb- flowers rejects government takeover bid for hre a major legal battle for the ownership of german bank hypo real estate is looming after a major investor rejected a bid from the german government .
-lrb- 30.04.2009 -rrb- 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live europa aktuell - das magazin aus brüssel we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live world in progress ' hate destroyer ' employs nail polish remover and paint against prejudice listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
art german photographer lala aufsberg 's work is a fascinating historical record of the 20th century .
watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german language lover on quest to save " chinglish " -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle music art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de from the fringe -pipe- 07.05.2009 german language lover on quest to save " chinglish " großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : just one of the thousands of examples to be found in china a german multimedia producer is working hard to preserve chinglish – china 's special version of english – for future generations . for 32-year-old oliver radtke , his fascination with chinglish began in 2000 , when he noticed a sign while in a shanghai taxi : " do n't forget to carry your thing , " it said .
since then , he has published two books on the subject . most recently , " more chinglish - speaking in tongues , " which hit shelves in april . he also maintains a popular online blog .
there is a view held by many in china , and not least by the authorities , that chinglish is an embarrassment that must be wiped out at all costs .
radtke disagrees .
he says the " language " should be preserved .
" there is a lot in chinglish that is so much more than just incompetent english or incorrect english , " he said .
" a lot of the chinglish signs carry a certain chinese notion in them which enriches the english language and makes english more chinese in the sense that there is a certain chinese flavor , a certain chinese way of thinking . "
radtke focuses on written examples of the lingo on signboards , menu cards and shop fronts .
some signs highlighted in his books are decidedly politically incorrect - " cripple 's lane , " rather than " wheelchair path , " or " deformed man toilet , " instead of " handicapped restroom . "
others are more poetic , such as one sign reminding visitors to one section of the great wall of china to be careful : " do not forget the fire is heartless . "
chinese citizens warming to " chinglish " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : oliver 's book " welcome to presence " " the initial reaction of many chinese users was very much against the project .
they thought i was making fun of them , " radtke said .
but he says the chinese are increasingly supportive of his efforts , and many have come to understand that he believes chinglish is in fact enriching the english language .
radtke , as a german , believes the entire notion of one single , standard version of english is outdated because it now has far more than one billion regular users worldwide , and a rapidly growing number speak it as their second language .
in recent years , china has kicked off campaigns to root out poor english grammar and misused vocabulary in official usage .
much to radtke 's horror , the most famous of these drives took place in beijing prior to the olympic games in august last year .
during that time , authorities rechristened the dongda proctology hospital , formerly the dongda anus hospital .
however radtke maintains these campaigns will never fully succeed .
he 's optimistic that chinglish will never disappear from the mainstream .
" i 'm pessimistic when it comes to official signs in the big cities .
but restaurants , companies , private institutions , small shop owners will all produce a lot of chinglish , " he says . cg , dfm afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de eu to english speakers : put your mouth where the money is the european union wants native english speakers to put their mouths where the money is : translation work .
the bloc , which has 23 official languages , is sending out an urgent youtube plea for more english translators .
-lrb- 19.02.2009 -rrb- immigrants help create new type of german language in multicultural urban areas of germany , a new variant of german has evolved with its own grammar and rhythm .
this ethnolect is spoken among young migrants of various ethnic backgrounds as well as young native germans .
-lrb- 08.12.2007 -rrb- wanderlust sends german words traveling what do autobahn , fest , flugelhorn , angst and gesundheit all have in common ?
you guessed it : they all come from the language of goethe , thomas mann and rammstein .
you know more german words than you think you do .
-lrb- 08.08.2006 -rrb- 9798 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
twitter follow dw culture keep up on europe 's culture and lifestyle scene .
dw-tv meet exceptional women who have achieved success in male-dominated jobs .
dj smokin joe car designer juliane blasi architect zeynep fadillioglu chef annie féolde conductor inma shara podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's new free podcast .
' clip ' homepage clip no. 13 - get back to basics with the singer-songwriter rock of the alin coen band subscribe on itunes get the rss feed word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
soundscape 100 concert hour arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
suspected war criminal loses us court appeal to stop deportation -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de world war ii -pipe- 07.05.2009 suspected war criminal loses us court appeal to stop deportation großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : john demjanjuk appears to be losing legal battle against deportation to germany a us supreme court judge has said he will not block the alleged nazi death camp guard john demjanjuk 's deportation to germany to face a war crimes trial . the 89-year-old demjanjuk claims he is too ill to fly to germany .
he is accused of being a guard at the sobibor extermination camp during world war ii and of being an accessory to the murder of some 29,000 jews .
demjanjuk , who is ukrainian born , denies the charges , saying he was captured by the nazis and then kept as a prisoner of war .
german authorities allege that demjanjuk , then 23 , worked from march-september 1943 as a guard in nazi-occupied poland at the sobibor concentration camp .
prosecutors in munich issued an arrest warrant for him in march .
the us supreme court move was seen as one of the last ways to prevent his being taken to germany .
however , under court rules , his lawyers may still submit applications for a stay to the court 's other eight justices .
the lower court had dismissed arguments by demjanjuk 's lawyer that transporting him to germany would pose an undue risk to his health .
it accepted us government assurances that he would receive sufficient medical care during the trip .
the us justice department said it would continue to work with the german government on demjanjuk 's removal , but a spokeswoman could not provide details about the timing of a possible deportation .
a german tribunal earlier on thursday ruled that the german government is under no duty to oppose demjanjuk 's expulsion from us soil to germany .
following world war ii , demjanjuk lived in germany as a refugee until 1952 when he changed his first name from ivan to john and moved to the united states .
demjanjuk was acquitted in 1993 by the israeli supreme court of charges that he worked at a different death camp , treblinka , saving him from the death sentence of a lower court in israel .
but when he returned to the us , he was stripped of his us citizenship . nrt , mh dpa / reuters / ap send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ? 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
wto ruling the world trade organization rules that china 's export restrictions on raw materials are illegal .
watch the video in depth focus on libya dw-world looks at the turmoil in libya : what it means for tripoli and the rest of the world .
international conference media representatives around the world gather in bonn to discuss human rights .
podcast series by teaching stand-up comedy , bryan encourages his students to discover their talents .
download the report subscribe to the series on itunes past episodes learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
suspected war criminal loses us court appeal to stop deportation -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 02.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de world war ii -pipe- 07.05.2009 suspected war criminal loses us court appeal to stop deportation großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : john demjanjuk appears to be losing legal battle against deportation to germany a us supreme court judge has said he will not block the alleged nazi death camp guard john demjanjuk 's deportation to germany to face a war crimes trial . the 89-year-old demjanjuk claims he is too ill to fly to germany .
he is accused of being a guard at the sobibor extermination camp during world war ii and of being an accessory to the murder of some 29,000 jews .
demjanjuk , who is ukrainian born , denies the charges , saying he was captured by the nazis and then kept as a prisoner of war .
german authorities allege that demjanjuk , then 23 , worked from march-september 1943 as a guard in nazi-occupied poland at the sobibor concentration camp .
prosecutors in munich issued an arrest warrant for him in march .
the us supreme court move was seen as one of the last ways to prevent his being taken to germany .
however , under court rules , his lawyers may still submit applications for a stay to the court 's other eight justices .
the lower court had dismissed arguments by demjanjuk 's lawyer that transporting him to germany would pose an undue risk to his health .
it accepted us government assurances that he would receive sufficient medical care during the trip .
the us justice department said it would continue to work with the german government on demjanjuk 's removal , but a spokeswoman could not provide details about the timing of a possible deportation .
a german tribunal earlier on thursday ruled that the german government is under no duty to oppose demjanjuk 's expulsion from us soil to germany .
following world war ii , demjanjuk lived in germany as a refugee until 1952 when he changed his first name from ivan to john and moved to the united states .
demjanjuk was acquitted in 1993 by the israeli supreme court of charges that he worked at a different death camp , treblinka , saving him from the death sentence of a lower court in israel .
but when he returned to the us , he was stripped of his us citizenship . nrt , mh dpa / reuters / ap send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ? 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
in depth al qaeda 's future deutsche welle takes a closer look at osama bin laden and the terrorist network he spearheaded .
podcast series kades , from one of nairobi 's largest slums , plays djb in shujaaz , a weekly radio show .
download the podcast international conference media representatives around the world gather in bonn to discuss human rights .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
suspected war criminal loses us court appeal to stop deportation -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 28.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de world war ii -pipe- 07.05.2009 suspected war criminal loses us court appeal to stop deportation großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : john demjanjuk appears to be losing legal battle against deportation to germany a us supreme court judge has said he will not block the alleged nazi death camp guard john demjanjuk 's deportation to germany to face a war crimes trial . the 89-year-old demjanjuk claims he is too ill to fly to germany .
he is accused of being a guard at the sobibor extermination camp during world war ii and of being an accessory to the murder of some 29,000 jews .
demjanjuk , who is ukrainian born , denies the charges , saying he was captured by the nazis and then kept as a prisoner of war .
german authorities allege that demjanjuk , then 23 , worked from march-september 1943 as a guard in nazi-occupied poland at the sobibor concentration camp .
prosecutors in munich issued an arrest warrant for him in march .
the us supreme court move was seen as one of the last ways to prevent his being taken to germany .
however , under court rules , his lawyers may still submit applications for a stay to the court 's other eight justices .
the lower court had dismissed arguments by demjanjuk 's lawyer that transporting him to germany would pose an undue risk to his health .
it accepted us government assurances that he would receive sufficient medical care during the trip .
the us justice department said it would continue to work with the german government on demjanjuk 's removal , but a spokeswoman could not provide details about the timing of a possible deportation .
a german tribunal earlier on thursday ruled that the german government is under no duty to oppose demjanjuk 's expulsion from us soil to germany .
following world war ii , demjanjuk lived in germany as a refugee until 1952 when he changed his first name from ivan to john and moved to the united states .
demjanjuk was acquitted in 1993 by the israeli supreme court of charges that he worked at a different death camp , treblinka , saving him from the death sentence of a lower court in israel .
but when he returned to the us , he was stripped of his us citizenship . nrt , mh dpa / reuters / ap send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
focus on syria rattling a regime in-depth coverage of the violent protests against the syrian government .
in-depth focus on libya dw-world looks at the turmoil in libya : what it means for tripoli and the rest of the world .
podcast series a london teen helps integrate autistic adults into society .
download the report subscribe to the series on itunes past episodes international conference media representatives around the world gather in bonn to discuss human rights .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
bremen book a place in the uefa cup final , clinching a win against rivals hamburg -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 22.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de soccer -pipe- 07.05.2009 bremen book a place in the uefa cup final , clinching a win against rivals hamburg großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bremen 's diego scores but will miss the uefa cup final .
werder bremen came from a goal down to win 3-2 away to sv hamburg thursday to book a uefa cup final date in istanbul against ukrainian side shakhtar donetsk . diego , claudio pizarro and frank baumann were the goal-scoring heroes for bremen to advance to their first ever european final on may 20 in istanbul .
bremen went into the clash trailing 1-0 from the first leg but conceded a goal to hosts hamburg in the 13th minute when joris mathijsen powered his way upfield from defence before finding ivica olic who chipped the ball over bremen 's goalkeepr tim wiese .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : hamburgs 's ivica olic , left , scores his side 's first goal past bremen 's goalkeeper tim wiese olic could have doubled hamburg 's lead on 27 minutes but his effort from close range was saved .
within two minutes bremen were level when diego and pizarro combined well before the brazilian slotted the ball past frank rost .
diego nearly netted a second on 37 minutes but his shot from 25 metres hit the crossbar .
however , the 24-year-old was booked two minutes before the break for an off-the-ball row with alex silva , who also saw yellow , meaning the brazilian will miss the final .
" it was a difficult situation i did n't do anything , not to go to the final is very bad for me , " said diego .
peruvian striker pizarro scored on 66 minutes , beating rost at the near post although the hamburg goalkeeper really should have done better .
baumann looked to have put the game beyond hamburg with bremen 's third seven minutes from time and although olic popped up to score his second of the game to make it 3-2 on the night to set up a tense finale , bremen held on to make it to their first uefa cup final .
" we played well , it was tough to come from two goals down , " said pizarro .
" diego played a great match its a pity he 's not in the final but thats football . "
bremen are the first german side to reach a uefa cup final since borussia dortmund reached the final in 2002 only to lose against feyenoord rotterdam .
ruhr valley side schalke 04 were the last german winners back in 1997 .
same procedure ?
thursday 's semi-final fixture is the third in a series of four matches to be played between the two northern german clubs within a 19-day period . the first game went bremen 's way when goalkeeper tim wiese made three saves in a penalty shootout to knock hamburg out of the german cup semi-final on april 22 . the second saw hamburg gain revenge eight days later with its 0-1 victory in bremen .
the fourth and final derby match is a bundesliga fixture scheduled for sunday , may 10 . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : thomas schaaf has coached werder bremen for a decade intense rivalry as the two biggest cities in northern germany , hamburg and bremen have a long history of competing with each other as hanseatic trading powers , regional centers of industry and culture , and sporting contenders . " what 's very special is that they more or less share the same backyard from which they can get their soccer fans , " deutsche welle 's sports head wolfgang van kann says .
" so it 's always a question of who is better , and where the fans will go . " from a historical perspective , it 's difficult to say which club has been more successful .
according to the so-called " eternal table , " which records the performances of all bundesliga clubs since the competition was founded in 1963 , werder bremen and hamburg are ranked second and third respectively .
at the time of writing , they were separated by just six points . " clearly hamburg has the longer tradition and the longer streak of success , " van kann says .
" bremen has only come up in the last one or two decades , but with huge success . " while hamburg has n't won a title since it lifted the german cup in 1987 , bremen won the german double in 2004 and has qualified for the champions league for the past five seasons . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : fans were disgusted when hooligans killed a 16-year-old in 1982 " the clubs have always been very different , " van kann explains .
" for example you can see that hamburg has had several coaches within the past few years , while bremen has only had one coach for the last 10 years . " fan violence one thing the two clubs do have in common is a dedicated fan base .
hamburg boasts almost 55,000 members , while bremen has more than 30,000 .
but violence involving so-called " ultras " and militant fan groups has driven a wedge between the two cities on more than one occasion . the worst incident took place in october 1982 , when hamburg hosted bremen for a second-round german cup match .
despite a large police presence around the main train station and the stadium , hooligans belonging to a group known as the " hamburg lions " attacked visitors with beer cans , stones and fireworks . a 16-year-old bremen fan named adrian maleika was killed after he was hit on the head by a stone .
while most of germany was shocked , a number of hard-line fans were quoted in the press as being indifferent or hungry for revenge . tensions between supporters of the rival clubs threatened to boil over until representatives of more than 200 fan groups met in the town of scheessel , half-way between bremen and hamburg , and signed a " peace deal " banning revenge attacks . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : werder bremen topped the bundesliga in 1993 and 2004 while provocative lyrics sung in stadiums during northern derbies occasionally refer to the incident , most fans have put the conflict behind them , and prefer to remember - or forget - these four landmark matches from the past 30 years : bremen 6-0 hamburg , may 1 , 2004 the most one-sided result between the two clubs was in bremen as the 2003-04 bundesliga season drew to an end .
some 42,000 spectators watched hamburg striker sergej barbarez score an own-goal and trigger an avalanche of bremen goals .
one match later , werder bremen won the championship with a spectacular 3-1 victory over bayern munich . bremen 4-2 hamburg , october 27 , 1993 just over 34,000 fans turned out to watch the fourth round german cup fixture in bremen 's weserstadion .
austrian midfielder andreas herzog gave bremen an early lead , but hamburg managed to score twice after the break before bernd hobsch leveled the scores in the 74th minute .
when hamburg 's andreas sassen was shown a red card , bremen 's frank neubarth and wynton rufer capitalized by both finding the net in the final four minutes .
the convincing victory saw werder bremen progress through the tournament to win the 1993 german cup . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : horst hrubesch was a key player for hamburg in 1982 .
bremen 5-0 hamburg , may 29 , 1993 bremen also secured the bundesliga crown with one game to spare in 1993 thanks to this overwhelming victory .
andreas herzog and wynton rufer both scored as the home crowd celebrated their club 's third title .
bremen ended the season one point ahead of bayern munich , leaving hamburg to finish 11th .
legendary bremen coach otto rehhagel described the victory as a " milestone " for the club . hamburg 5-0 bremen , may 15 , 1982 one of hamburg 's two highest-ever wins against their northern derby rivals came in the closing stages of the 1981/1982 campaign .
a total of 53,400 fans watched horst hrubesch - now germany 's under-21 coach - score a hat-trick as hamburg demolished bremen 's defense to win the bundesliga title at the expense of second-placed fc cologne . author : sam edmonds editor : darren mara send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de hamburg move closer to uefa final after bremen defeat sv hamburg took the advantage on thursday after defeating bremen 1-0 in the first leg of their uefa cup semi-final matches .
hamburg 's coach says their position is good for the second leg , but bremen is not giving up .
-lrb- 01.05.2009 -rrb- german , ukrainian clubs fight for uefa cup honors domestic pride will be at stake in europe when ukrainian and german clubs battle against each other in the semi-finals of the uefa cup in first-leg matches on thursday .
-lrb- 30.04.2009 -rrb- werder bremen beat hamburg in cup semi-final bremen beat hamburg on penalties to reach the cup final .
bremen 's goalie tim wiese was the man of the game as he saved three penalties .
his side will now face leverkusen in the final .
-lrb- 23.04.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 dw-tv europe live tomorrow today we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live spectrum listen live dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results at a glance .
dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia moenchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
bremen book a place in the uefa cup final , clinching a win against rivals hamburg -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de soccer -pipe- 07.05.2009 bremen book a place in the uefa cup final , clinching a win against rivals hamburg großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bremen 's diego scores but will miss the uefa cup final .
werder bremen came from a goal down to win 3-2 away to sv hamburg thursday to book a uefa cup final date in istanbul against ukrainian side shakhtar donetsk . diego , claudio pizarro and frank baumann were the goal-scoring heroes for bremen to advance to their first ever european final on may 20 in istanbul .
bremen went into the clash trailing 1-0 from the first leg but conceded a goal to hosts hamburg in the 13th minute when joris mathijsen powered his way upfield from defence before finding ivica olic who chipped the ball over bremen 's goalkeepr tim wiese .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : hamburgs 's ivica olic , left , scores his side 's first goal past bremen 's goalkeeper tim wiese olic could have doubled hamburg 's lead on 27 minutes but his effort from close range was saved .
within two minutes bremen were level when diego and pizarro combined well before the brazilian slotted the ball past frank rost .
diego nearly netted a second on 37 minutes but his shot from 25 metres hit the crossbar .
however , the 24-year-old was booked two minutes before the break for an off-the-ball row with alex silva , who also saw yellow , meaning the brazilian will miss the final .
" it was a difficult situation i did n't do anything , not to go to the final is very bad for me , " said diego .
peruvian striker pizarro scored on 66 minutes , beating rost at the near post although the hamburg goalkeeper really should have done better .
baumann looked to have put the game beyond hamburg with bremen 's third seven minutes from time and although olic popped up to score his second of the game to make it 3-2 on the night to set up a tense finale , bremen held on to make it to their first uefa cup final .
" we played well , it was tough to come from two goals down , " said pizarro .
" diego played a great match its a pity he 's not in the final but thats football . "
bremen are the first german side to reach a uefa cup final since borussia dortmund reached the final in 2002 only to lose against feyenoord rotterdam .
ruhr valley side schalke 04 were the last german winners back in 1997 .
same procedure ?
thursday 's semi-final fixture is the third in a series of four matches to be played between the two northern german clubs within a 19-day period . the first game went bremen 's way when goalkeeper tim wiese made three saves in a penalty shootout to knock hamburg out of the german cup semi-final on april 22 . the second saw hamburg gain revenge eight days later with its 0-1 victory in bremen .
the fourth and final derby match is a bundesliga fixture scheduled for sunday , may 10 . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : thomas schaaf has coached werder bremen for a decade intense rivalry as the two biggest cities in northern germany , hamburg and bremen have a long history of competing with each other as hanseatic trading powers , regional centers of industry and culture , and sporting contenders . " what 's very special is that they more or less share the same backyard from which they can get their soccer fans , " deutsche welle 's sports head wolfgang van kann says .
" so it 's always a question of who is better , and where the fans will go . " from a historical perspective , it 's difficult to say which club has been more successful .
according to the so-called " eternal table , " which records the performances of all bundesliga clubs since the competition was founded in 1963 , werder bremen and hamburg are ranked second and third respectively .
at the time of writing , they were separated by just six points . " clearly hamburg has the longer tradition and the longer streak of success , " van kann says .
" bremen has only come up in the last one or two decades , but with huge success . " while hamburg has n't won a title since it lifted the german cup in 1987 , bremen won the german double in 2004 and has qualified for the champions league for the past five seasons . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : fans were disgusted when hooligans killed a 16-year-old in 1982 " the clubs have always been very different , " van kann explains .
" for example you can see that hamburg has had several coaches within the past few years , while bremen has only had one coach for the last 10 years . " fan violence one thing the two clubs do have in common is a dedicated fan base .
hamburg boasts almost 55,000 members , while bremen has more than 30,000 .
but violence involving so-called " ultras " and militant fan groups has driven a wedge between the two cities on more than one occasion . the worst incident took place in october 1982 , when hamburg hosted bremen for a second-round german cup match .
despite a large police presence around the main train station and the stadium , hooligans belonging to a group known as the " hamburg lions " attacked visitors with beer cans , stones and fireworks . a 16-year-old bremen fan named adrian maleika was killed after he was hit on the head by a stone .
while most of germany was shocked , a number of hard-line fans were quoted in the press as being indifferent or hungry for revenge . tensions between supporters of the rival clubs threatened to boil over until representatives of more than 200 fan groups met in the town of scheessel , half-way between bremen and hamburg , and signed a " peace deal " banning revenge attacks . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : werder bremen topped the bundesliga in 1993 and 2004 while provocative lyrics sung in stadiums during northern derbies occasionally refer to the incident , most fans have put the conflict behind them , and prefer to remember - or forget - these four landmark matches from the past 30 years : bremen 6-0 hamburg , may 1 , 2004 the most one-sided result between the two clubs was in bremen as the 2003-04 bundesliga season drew to an end .
some 42,000 spectators watched hamburg striker sergej barbarez score an own-goal and trigger an avalanche of bremen goals .
one match later , werder bremen won the championship with a spectacular 3-1 victory over bayern munich . bremen 4-2 hamburg , october 27 , 1993 just over 34,000 fans turned out to watch the fourth round german cup fixture in bremen 's weserstadion .
austrian midfielder andreas herzog gave bremen an early lead , but hamburg managed to score twice after the break before bernd hobsch leveled the scores in the 74th minute .
when hamburg 's andreas sassen was shown a red card , bremen 's frank neubarth and wynton rufer capitalized by both finding the net in the final four minutes .
the convincing victory saw werder bremen progress through the tournament to win the 1993 german cup . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : horst hrubesch was a key player for hamburg in 1982 .
bremen 5-0 hamburg , may 29 , 1993 bremen also secured the bundesliga crown with one game to spare in 1993 thanks to this overwhelming victory .
andreas herzog and wynton rufer both scored as the home crowd celebrated their club 's third title .
bremen ended the season one point ahead of bayern munich , leaving hamburg to finish 11th .
legendary bremen coach otto rehhagel described the victory as a " milestone " for the club . hamburg 5-0 bremen , may 15 , 1982 one of hamburg 's two highest-ever wins against their northern derby rivals came in the closing stages of the 1981/1982 campaign .
a total of 53,400 fans watched horst hrubesch - now germany 's under-21 coach - score a hat-trick as hamburg demolished bremen 's defense to win the bundesliga title at the expense of second-placed fc cologne . author : sam edmonds editor : darren mara send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de hamburg move closer to uefa final after bremen defeat sv hamburg took the advantage on thursday after defeating bremen 1-0 in the first leg of their uefa cup semi-final matches .
hamburg 's coach says their position is good for the second leg , but bremen is not giving up .
-lrb- 01.05.2009 -rrb- german , ukrainian clubs fight for uefa cup honors domestic pride will be at stake in europe when ukrainian and german clubs battle against each other in the semi-finals of the uefa cup in first-leg matches on thursday .
-lrb- 30.04.2009 -rrb- werder bremen beat hamburg in cup semi-final bremen beat hamburg on penalties to reach the cup final .
bremen 's goalie tim wiese was the man of the game as he saved three penalties .
his side will now face leverkusen in the final .
-lrb- 23.04.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 dw-tv europe live kultur.21 we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live in-box feedback from around the world listen live bundesliga predictions match day 17 picks the dw pundits are back from the alien abduction that kept them silent last week .
dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report high scorer freiburg 's papiss demba cisse opens up to dw-tv 's bundesliga kick off ! about his goalscoring ways .
watch the report scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results at a glance .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia moenchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
bremen book a place in the uefa cup final , clinching a win against rivals hamburg -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 30.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de soccer -pipe- 07.05.2009 bremen book a place in the uefa cup final , clinching a win against rivals hamburg großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bremen 's diego scores but will miss the uefa cup final .
werder bremen came from a goal down to win 3-2 away to sv hamburg thursday to book a uefa cup final date in istanbul against ukrainian side shakhtar donetsk . diego , claudio pizarro and frank baumann were the goal-scoring heroes for bremen to advance to their first ever european final on may 20 in istanbul .
bremen went into the clash trailing 1-0 from the first leg but conceded a goal to hosts hamburg in the 13th minute when joris mathijsen powered his way upfield from defence before finding ivica olic who chipped the ball over bremen 's goalkeepr tim wiese .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : hamburgs 's ivica olic , left , scores his side 's first goal past bremen 's goalkeeper tim wiese olic could have doubled hamburg 's lead on 27 minutes but his effort from close range was saved .
within two minutes bremen were level when diego and pizarro combined well before the brazilian slotted the ball past frank rost .
diego nearly netted a second on 37 minutes but his shot from 25 metres hit the crossbar .
however , the 24-year-old was booked two minutes before the break for an off-the-ball row with alex silva , who also saw yellow , meaning the brazilian will miss the final .
" it was a difficult situation i did n't do anything , not to go to the final is very bad for me , " said diego .
peruvian striker pizarro scored on 66 minutes , beating rost at the near post although the hamburg goalkeeper really should have done better .
baumann looked to have put the game beyond hamburg with bremen 's third seven minutes from time and although olic popped up to score his second of the game to make it 3-2 on the night to set up a tense finale , bremen held on to make it to their first uefa cup final .
" we played well , it was tough to come from two goals down , " said pizarro .
" diego played a great match its a pity he 's not in the final but thats football . "
bremen are the first german side to reach a uefa cup final since borussia dortmund reached the final in 2002 only to lose against feyenoord rotterdam .
ruhr valley side schalke 04 were the last german winners back in 1997 .
same procedure ?
thursday 's semi-final fixture is the third in a series of four matches to be played between the two northern german clubs within a 19-day period . the first game went bremen 's way when goalkeeper tim wiese made three saves in a penalty shootout to knock hamburg out of the german cup semi-final on april 22 . the second saw hamburg gain revenge eight days later with its 0-1 victory in bremen .
the fourth and final derby match is a bundesliga fixture scheduled for sunday , may 10 . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : thomas schaaf has coached werder bremen for a decade intense rivalry as the two biggest cities in northern germany , hamburg and bremen have a long history of competing with each other as hanseatic trading powers , regional centers of industry and culture , and sporting contenders . " what 's very special is that they more or less share the same backyard from which they can get their soccer fans , " deutsche welle 's sports head wolfgang van kann says .
" so it 's always a question of who is better , and where the fans will go . " from a historical perspective , it 's difficult to say which club has been more successful .
according to the so-called " eternal table , " which records the performances of all bundesliga clubs since the competition was founded in 1963 , werder bremen and hamburg are ranked second and third respectively .
at the time of writing , they were separated by just six points . " clearly hamburg has the longer tradition and the longer streak of success , " van kann says .
" bremen has only come up in the last one or two decades , but with huge success . " while hamburg has n't won a title since it lifted the german cup in 1987 , bremen won the german double in 2004 and has qualified for the champions league for the past five seasons . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : fans were disgusted when hooligans killed a 16-year-old in 1982 " the clubs have always been very different , " van kann explains .
" for example you can see that hamburg has had several coaches within the past few years , while bremen has only had one coach for the last 10 years . " fan violence one thing the two clubs do have in common is a dedicated fan base .
hamburg boasts almost 55,000 members , while bremen has more than 30,000 .
but violence involving so-called " ultras " and militant fan groups has driven a wedge between the two cities on more than one occasion . the worst incident took place in october 1982 , when hamburg hosted bremen for a second-round german cup match .
despite a large police presence around the main train station and the stadium , hooligans belonging to a group known as the " hamburg lions " attacked visitors with beer cans , stones and fireworks . a 16-year-old bremen fan named adrian maleika was killed after he was hit on the head by a stone .
while most of germany was shocked , a number of hard-line fans were quoted in the press as being indifferent or hungry for revenge . tensions between supporters of the rival clubs threatened to boil over until representatives of more than 200 fan groups met in the town of scheessel , half-way between bremen and hamburg , and signed a " peace deal " banning revenge attacks . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : werder bremen topped the bundesliga in 1993 and 2004 while provocative lyrics sung in stadiums during northern derbies occasionally refer to the incident , most fans have put the conflict behind them , and prefer to remember - or forget - these four landmark matches from the past 30 years : bremen 6-0 hamburg , may 1 , 2004 the most one-sided result between the two clubs was in bremen as the 2003-04 bundesliga season drew to an end .
some 42,000 spectators watched hamburg striker sergej barbarez score an own-goal and trigger an avalanche of bremen goals .
one match later , werder bremen won the championship with a spectacular 3-1 victory over bayern munich . bremen 4-2 hamburg , october 27 , 1993 just over 34,000 fans turned out to watch the fourth round german cup fixture in bremen 's weserstadion .
austrian midfielder andreas herzog gave bremen an early lead , but hamburg managed to score twice after the break before bernd hobsch leveled the scores in the 74th minute .
when hamburg 's andreas sassen was shown a red card , bremen 's frank neubarth and wynton rufer capitalized by both finding the net in the final four minutes .
the convincing victory saw werder bremen progress through the tournament to win the 1993 german cup . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : horst hrubesch was a key player for hamburg in 1982 .
bremen 5-0 hamburg , may 29 , 1993 bremen also secured the bundesliga crown with one game to spare in 1993 thanks to this overwhelming victory .
andreas herzog and wynton rufer both scored as the home crowd celebrated their club 's third title .
bremen ended the season one point ahead of bayern munich , leaving hamburg to finish 11th .
legendary bremen coach otto rehhagel described the victory as a " milestone " for the club . hamburg 5-0 bremen , may 15 , 1982 one of hamburg 's two highest-ever wins against their northern derby rivals came in the closing stages of the 1981/1982 campaign .
a total of 53,400 fans watched horst hrubesch - now germany 's under-21 coach - score a hat-trick as hamburg demolished bremen 's defense to win the bundesliga title at the expense of second-placed fc cologne . author : sam edmonds editor : darren mara send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de hamburg move closer to uefa final after bremen defeat sv hamburg took the advantage on thursday after defeating bremen 1-0 in the first leg of their uefa cup semi-final matches .
hamburg 's coach says their position is good for the second leg , but bremen is not giving up .
-lrb- 01.05.2009 -rrb- german , ukrainian clubs fight for uefa cup honors domestic pride will be at stake in europe when ukrainian and german clubs battle against each other in the semi-finals of the uefa cup in first-leg matches on thursday .
-lrb- 30.04.2009 -rrb- werder bremen beat hamburg in cup semi-final bremen beat hamburg on penalties to reach the cup final .
bremen 's goalie tim wiese was the man of the game as he saved three penalties .
his side will now face leverkusen in the final .
-lrb- 23.04.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
bundesliga picks dramatic finish three weeks to go and there 's still much to play for - and predict - in the bundesliga .
dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer on dw-radio .
sports report scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results .
dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
bremen book a place in the uefa cup final , clinching a win against rivals hamburg -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.03.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de soccer -pipe- 07.05.2009 bremen book a place in the uefa cup final , clinching a win against rivals hamburg großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bremen 's diego scores but will miss the uefa cup final .
werder bremen came from a goal down to win 3-2 away to sv hamburg thursday to book a uefa cup final date in istanbul against ukrainian side shakhtar donetsk . diego , claudio pizarro and frank baumann were the goal-scoring heroes for bremen to advance to their first ever european final on may 20 in istanbul .
bremen went into the clash trailing 1-0 from the first leg but conceded a goal to hosts hamburg in the 13th minute when joris mathijsen powered his way upfield from defence before finding ivica olic who chipped the ball over bremen 's goalkeepr tim wiese .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : hamburgs 's ivica olic , left , scores his side 's first goal past bremen 's goalkeeper tim wiese olic could have doubled hamburg 's lead on 27 minutes but his effort from close range was saved .
within two minutes bremen were level when diego and pizarro combined well before the brazilian slotted the ball past frank rost .
diego nearly netted a second on 37 minutes but his shot from 25 metres hit the crossbar .
however , the 24-year-old was booked two minutes before the break for an off-the-ball row with alex silva , who also saw yellow , meaning the brazilian will miss the final .
" it was a difficult situation i did n't do anything , not to go to the final is very bad for me , " said diego .
peruvian striker pizarro scored on 66 minutes , beating rost at the near post although the hamburg goalkeeper really should have done better .
baumann looked to have put the game beyond hamburg with bremen 's third seven minutes from time and although olic popped up to score his second of the game to make it 3-2 on the night to set up a tense finale , bremen held on to make it to their first uefa cup final .
" we played well , it was tough to come from two goals down , " said pizarro .
" diego played a great match its a pity he 's not in the final but thats football . "
bremen are the first german side to reach a uefa cup final since borussia dortmund reached the final in 2002 only to lose against feyenoord rotterdam .
ruhr valley side schalke 04 were the last german winners back in 1997 .
same procedure ?
thursday 's semi-final fixture is the third in a series of four matches to be played between the two northern german clubs within a 19-day period . the first game went bremen 's way when goalkeeper tim wiese made three saves in a penalty shootout to knock hamburg out of the german cup semi-final on april 22 . the second saw hamburg gain revenge eight days later with its 0-1 victory in bremen .
the fourth and final derby match is a bundesliga fixture scheduled for sunday , may 10 . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : thomas schaaf has coached werder bremen for a decade intense rivalry as the two biggest cities in northern germany , hamburg and bremen have a long history of competing with each other as hanseatic trading powers , regional centers of industry and culture , and sporting contenders . " what 's very special is that they more or less share the same backyard from which they can get their soccer fans , " deutsche welle 's sports head wolfgang van kann says .
" so it 's always a question of who is better , and where the fans will go . " from a historical perspective , it 's difficult to say which club has been more successful .
according to the so-called " eternal table , " which records the performances of all bundesliga clubs since the competition was founded in 1963 , werder bremen and hamburg are ranked second and third respectively .
at the time of writing , they were separated by just six points . " clearly hamburg has the longer tradition and the longer streak of success , " van kann says .
" bremen has only come up in the last one or two decades , but with huge success . " while hamburg has n't won a title since it lifted the german cup in 1987 , bremen won the german double in 2004 and has qualified for the champions league for the past five seasons . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : fans were disgusted when hooligans killed a 16-year-old in 1982 " the clubs have always been very different , " van kann explains .
" for example you can see that hamburg has had several coaches within the past few years , while bremen has only had one coach for the last 10 years . " fan violence one thing the two clubs do have in common is a dedicated fan base .
hamburg boasts almost 55,000 members , while bremen has more than 30,000 .
but violence involving so-called " ultras " and militant fan groups has driven a wedge between the two cities on more than one occasion . the worst incident took place in october 1982 , when hamburg hosted bremen for a second-round german cup match .
despite a large police presence around the main train station and the stadium , hooligans belonging to a group known as the " hamburg lions " attacked visitors with beer cans , stones and fireworks . a 16-year-old bremen fan named adrian maleika was killed after he was hit on the head by a stone .
while most of germany was shocked , a number of hard-line fans were quoted in the press as being indifferent or hungry for revenge . tensions between supporters of the rival clubs threatened to boil over until representatives of more than 200 fan groups met in the town of scheessel , half-way between bremen and hamburg , and signed a " peace deal " banning revenge attacks . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : werder bremen topped the bundesliga in 1993 and 2004 while provocative lyrics sung in stadiums during northern derbies occasionally refer to the incident , most fans have put the conflict behind them , and prefer to remember - or forget - these four landmark matches from the past 30 years : bremen 6-0 hamburg , may 1 , 2004 the most one-sided result between the two clubs was in bremen as the 2003-04 bundesliga season drew to an end .
some 42,000 spectators watched hamburg striker sergej barbarez score an own-goal and trigger an avalanche of bremen goals .
one match later , werder bremen won the championship with a spectacular 3-1 victory over bayern munich . bremen 4-2 hamburg , october 27 , 1993 just over 34,000 fans turned out to watch the fourth round german cup fixture in bremen 's weserstadion .
austrian midfielder andreas herzog gave bremen an early lead , but hamburg managed to score twice after the break before bernd hobsch leveled the scores in the 74th minute .
when hamburg 's andreas sassen was shown a red card , bremen 's frank neubarth and wynton rufer capitalized by both finding the net in the final four minutes .
the convincing victory saw werder bremen progress through the tournament to win the 1993 german cup . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : horst hrubesch was a key player for hamburg in 1982 .
bremen 5-0 hamburg , may 29 , 1993 bremen also secured the bundesliga crown with one game to spare in 1993 thanks to this overwhelming victory .
andreas herzog and wynton rufer both scored as the home crowd celebrated their club 's third title .
bremen ended the season one point ahead of bayern munich , leaving hamburg to finish 11th .
legendary bremen coach otto rehhagel described the victory as a " milestone " for the club . hamburg 5-0 bremen , may 15 , 1982 one of hamburg 's two highest-ever wins against their northern derby rivals came in the closing stages of the 1981/1982 campaign .
a total of 53,400 fans watched horst hrubesch - now germany 's under-21 coach - score a hat-trick as hamburg demolished bremen 's defense to win the bundesliga title at the expense of second-placed fc cologne . author : sam edmonds editor : darren mara send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de hamburg move closer to uefa final after bremen defeat sv hamburg took the advantage on thursday after defeating bremen 1-0 in the first leg of their uefa cup semi-final matches .
hamburg 's coach says their position is good for the second leg , but bremen is not giving up .
-lrb- 01.05.2009 -rrb- german , ukrainian clubs fight for uefa cup honors domestic pride will be at stake in europe when ukrainian and german clubs battle against each other in the semi-finals of the uefa cup in first-leg matches on thursday .
-lrb- 30.04.2009 -rrb- werder bremen beat hamburg in cup semi-final bremen beat hamburg on penalties to reach the cup final .
bremen 's goalie tim wiese was the man of the game as he saved three penalties .
his side will now face leverkusen in the final .
-lrb- 23.04.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 dw-tv europe live im focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer on dw-radio .
sports report scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia mönchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
bremen book a place in the uefa cup final , clinching a win against rivals hamburg -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de soccer -pipe- 07.05.2009 bremen book a place in the uefa cup final , clinching a win against rivals hamburg großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bremen 's diego scores but will miss the uefa cup final .
werder bremen came from a goal down to win 3-2 away to sv hamburg thursday to book a uefa cup final date in istanbul against ukrainian side shakhtar donetsk . diego , claudio pizarro and frank baumann were the goal-scoring heroes for bremen to advance to their first ever european final on may 20 in istanbul .
bremen went into the clash trailing 1-0 from the first leg but conceded a goal to hosts hamburg in the 13th minute when joris mathijsen powered his way upfield from defence before finding ivica olic who chipped the ball over bremen 's goalkeepr tim wiese .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : hamburgs 's ivica olic , left , scores his side 's first goal past bremen 's goalkeeper tim wiese olic could have doubled hamburg 's lead on 27 minutes but his effort from close range was saved .
within two minutes bremen were level when diego and pizarro combined well before the brazilian slotted the ball past frank rost .
diego nearly netted a second on 37 minutes but his shot from 25 metres hit the crossbar .
however , the 24-year-old was booked two minutes before the break for an off-the-ball row with alex silva , who also saw yellow , meaning the brazilian will miss the final .
" it was a difficult situation i did n't do anything , not to go to the final is very bad for me , " said diego .
peruvian striker pizarro scored on 66 minutes , beating rost at the near post although the hamburg goalkeeper really should have done better .
baumann looked to have put the game beyond hamburg with bremen 's third seven minutes from time and although olic popped up to score his second of the game to make it 3-2 on the night to set up a tense finale , bremen held on to make it to their first uefa cup final .
" we played well , it was tough to come from two goals down , " said pizarro .
" diego played a great match its a pity he 's not in the final but thats football . "
bremen are the first german side to reach a uefa cup final since borussia dortmund reached the final in 2002 only to lose against feyenoord rotterdam .
ruhr valley side schalke 04 were the last german winners back in 1997 .
same procedure ?
thursday 's semi-final fixture is the third in a series of four matches to be played between the two northern german clubs within a 19-day period . the first game went bremen 's way when goalkeeper tim wiese made three saves in a penalty shootout to knock hamburg out of the german cup semi-final on april 22 . the second saw hamburg gain revenge eight days later with its 0-1 victory in bremen .
the fourth and final derby match is a bundesliga fixture scheduled for sunday , may 10 . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : thomas schaaf has coached werder bremen for a decade intense rivalry as the two biggest cities in northern germany , hamburg and bremen have a long history of competing with each other as hanseatic trading powers , regional centers of industry and culture , and sporting contenders . " what 's very special is that they more or less share the same backyard from which they can get their soccer fans , " deutsche welle 's sports head wolfgang van kann says .
" so it 's always a question of who is better , and where the fans will go . " from a historical perspective , it 's difficult to say which club has been more successful .
according to the so-called " eternal table , " which records the performances of all bundesliga clubs since the competition was founded in 1963 , werder bremen and hamburg are ranked second and third respectively .
at the time of writing , they were separated by just six points . " clearly hamburg has the longer tradition and the longer streak of success , " van kann says .
" bremen has only come up in the last one or two decades , but with huge success . " while hamburg has n't won a title since it lifted the german cup in 1987 , bremen won the german double in 2004 and has qualified for the champions league for the past five seasons . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : fans were disgusted when hooligans killed a 16-year-old in 1982 " the clubs have always been very different , " van kann explains .
" for example you can see that hamburg has had several coaches within the past few years , while bremen has only had one coach for the last 10 years . " fan violence one thing the two clubs do have in common is a dedicated fan base .
hamburg boasts almost 55,000 members , while bremen has more than 30,000 .
but violence involving so-called " ultras " and militant fan groups has driven a wedge between the two cities on more than one occasion . the worst incident took place in october 1982 , when hamburg hosted bremen for a second-round german cup match .
despite a large police presence around the main train station and the stadium , hooligans belonging to a group known as the " hamburg lions " attacked visitors with beer cans , stones and fireworks . a 16-year-old bremen fan named adrian maleika was killed after he was hit on the head by a stone .
while most of germany was shocked , a number of hard-line fans were quoted in the press as being indifferent or hungry for revenge . tensions between supporters of the rival clubs threatened to boil over until representatives of more than 200 fan groups met in the town of scheessel , half-way between bremen and hamburg , and signed a " peace deal " banning revenge attacks . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : werder bremen topped the bundesliga in 1993 and 2004 while provocative lyrics sung in stadiums during northern derbies occasionally refer to the incident , most fans have put the conflict behind them , and prefer to remember - or forget - these four landmark matches from the past 30 years : bremen 6-0 hamburg , may 1 , 2004 the most one-sided result between the two clubs was in bremen as the 2003-04 bundesliga season drew to an end .
some 42,000 spectators watched hamburg striker sergej barbarez score an own-goal and trigger an avalanche of bremen goals .
one match later , werder bremen won the championship with a spectacular 3-1 victory over bayern munich . bremen 4-2 hamburg , october 27 , 1993 just over 34,000 fans turned out to watch the fourth round german cup fixture in bremen 's weserstadion .
austrian midfielder andreas herzog gave bremen an early lead , but hamburg managed to score twice after the break before bernd hobsch leveled the scores in the 74th minute .
when hamburg 's andreas sassen was shown a red card , bremen 's frank neubarth and wynton rufer capitalized by both finding the net in the final four minutes .
the convincing victory saw werder bremen progress through the tournament to win the 1993 german cup . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : horst hrubesch was a key player for hamburg in 1982 .
bremen 5-0 hamburg , may 29 , 1993 bremen also secured the bundesliga crown with one game to spare in 1993 thanks to this overwhelming victory .
andreas herzog and wynton rufer both scored as the home crowd celebrated their club 's third title .
bremen ended the season one point ahead of bayern munich , leaving hamburg to finish 11th .
legendary bremen coach otto rehhagel described the victory as a " milestone " for the club . hamburg 5-0 bremen , may 15 , 1982 one of hamburg 's two highest-ever wins against their northern derby rivals came in the closing stages of the 1981/1982 campaign .
a total of 53,400 fans watched horst hrubesch - now germany 's under-21 coach - score a hat-trick as hamburg demolished bremen 's defense to win the bundesliga title at the expense of second-placed fc cologne . author : sam edmonds editor : darren mara send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de hamburg move closer to uefa final after bremen defeat sv hamburg took the advantage on thursday after defeating bremen 1-0 in the first leg of their uefa cup semi-final matches .
hamburg 's coach says their position is good for the second leg , but bremen is not giving up .
-lrb- 01.05.2009 -rrb- german , ukrainian clubs fight for uefa cup honors domestic pride will be at stake in europe when ukrainian and german clubs battle against each other in the semi-finals of the uefa cup in first-leg matches on thursday .
-lrb- 30.04.2009 -rrb- werder bremen beat hamburg in cup semi-final bremen beat hamburg on penalties to reach the cup final .
bremen 's goalie tim wiese was the man of the game as he saved three penalties .
his side will now face leverkusen in the final .
-lrb- 23.04.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results at a glance .
dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia moenchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
bremen book a place in the uefa cup final , clinching a win against rivals hamburg -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 22.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de soccer -pipe- 07.05.2009 bremen book a place in the uefa cup final , clinching a win against rivals hamburg großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bremen 's diego scores but will miss the uefa cup final .
werder bremen came from a goal down to win 3-2 away to sv hamburg thursday to book a uefa cup final date in istanbul against ukrainian side shakhtar donetsk . diego , claudio pizarro and frank baumann were the goal-scoring heroes for bremen to advance to their first ever european final on may 20 in istanbul .
bremen went into the clash trailing 1-0 from the first leg but conceded a goal to hosts hamburg in the 13th minute when joris mathijsen powered his way upfield from defence before finding ivica olic who chipped the ball over bremen 's goalkeepr tim wiese .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : hamburgs 's ivica olic , left , scores his side 's first goal past bremen 's goalkeeper tim wiese olic could have doubled hamburg 's lead on 27 minutes but his effort from close range was saved .
within two minutes bremen were level when diego and pizarro combined well before the brazilian slotted the ball past frank rost .
diego nearly netted a second on 37 minutes but his shot from 25 metres hit the crossbar .
however , the 24-year-old was booked two minutes before the break for an off-the-ball row with alex silva , who also saw yellow , meaning the brazilian will miss the final .
" it was a difficult situation i did n't do anything , not to go to the final is very bad for me , " said diego .
peruvian striker pizarro scored on 66 minutes , beating rost at the near post although the hamburg goalkeeper really should have done better .
baumann looked to have put the game beyond hamburg with bremen 's third seven minutes from time and although olic popped up to score his second of the game to make it 3-2 on the night to set up a tense finale , bremen held on to make it to their first uefa cup final .
" we played well , it was tough to come from two goals down , " said pizarro .
" diego played a great match its a pity he 's not in the final but thats football . "
bremen are the first german side to reach a uefa cup final since borussia dortmund reached the final in 2002 only to lose against feyenoord rotterdam .
ruhr valley side schalke 04 were the last german winners back in 1997 .
same procedure ?
thursday 's semi-final fixture is the third in a series of four matches to be played between the two northern german clubs within a 19-day period . the first game went bremen 's way when goalkeeper tim wiese made three saves in a penalty shootout to knock hamburg out of the german cup semi-final on april 22 . the second saw hamburg gain revenge eight days later with its 0-1 victory in bremen .
the fourth and final derby match is a bundesliga fixture scheduled for sunday , may 10 . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : thomas schaaf has coached werder bremen for a decade intense rivalry as the two biggest cities in northern germany , hamburg and bremen have a long history of competing with each other as hanseatic trading powers , regional centers of industry and culture , and sporting contenders . " what 's very special is that they more or less share the same backyard from which they can get their soccer fans , " deutsche welle 's sports head wolfgang van kann says .
" so it 's always a question of who is better , and where the fans will go . " from a historical perspective , it 's difficult to say which club has been more successful .
according to the so-called " eternal table , " which records the performances of all bundesliga clubs since the competition was founded in 1963 , werder bremen and hamburg are ranked second and third respectively .
at the time of writing , they were separated by just six points . " clearly hamburg has the longer tradition and the longer streak of success , " van kann says .
" bremen has only come up in the last one or two decades , but with huge success . " while hamburg has n't won a title since it lifted the german cup in 1987 , bremen won the german double in 2004 and has qualified for the champions league for the past five seasons . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : fans were disgusted when hooligans killed a 16-year-old in 1982 " the clubs have always been very different , " van kann explains .
" for example you can see that hamburg has had several coaches within the past few years , while bremen has only had one coach for the last 10 years . " fan violence one thing the two clubs do have in common is a dedicated fan base .
hamburg boasts almost 55,000 members , while bremen has more than 30,000 .
but violence involving so-called " ultras " and militant fan groups has driven a wedge between the two cities on more than one occasion . the worst incident took place in october 1982 , when hamburg hosted bremen for a second-round german cup match .
despite a large police presence around the main train station and the stadium , hooligans belonging to a group known as the " hamburg lions " attacked visitors with beer cans , stones and fireworks . a 16-year-old bremen fan named adrian maleika was killed after he was hit on the head by a stone .
while most of germany was shocked , a number of hard-line fans were quoted in the press as being indifferent or hungry for revenge . tensions between supporters of the rival clubs threatened to boil over until representatives of more than 200 fan groups met in the town of scheessel , half-way between bremen and hamburg , and signed a " peace deal " banning revenge attacks . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : werder bremen topped the bundesliga in 1993 and 2004 while provocative lyrics sung in stadiums during northern derbies occasionally refer to the incident , most fans have put the conflict behind them , and prefer to remember - or forget - these four landmark matches from the past 30 years : bremen 6-0 hamburg , may 1 , 2004 the most one-sided result between the two clubs was in bremen as the 2003-04 bundesliga season drew to an end .
some 42,000 spectators watched hamburg striker sergej barbarez score an own-goal and trigger an avalanche of bremen goals .
one match later , werder bremen won the championship with a spectacular 3-1 victory over bayern munich . bremen 4-2 hamburg , october 27 , 1993 just over 34,000 fans turned out to watch the fourth round german cup fixture in bremen 's weserstadion .
austrian midfielder andreas herzog gave bremen an early lead , but hamburg managed to score twice after the break before bernd hobsch leveled the scores in the 74th minute .
when hamburg 's andreas sassen was shown a red card , bremen 's frank neubarth and wynton rufer capitalized by both finding the net in the final four minutes .
the convincing victory saw werder bremen progress through the tournament to win the 1993 german cup . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : horst hrubesch was a key player for hamburg in 1982 .
bremen 5-0 hamburg , may 29 , 1993 bremen also secured the bundesliga crown with one game to spare in 1993 thanks to this overwhelming victory .
andreas herzog and wynton rufer both scored as the home crowd celebrated their club 's third title .
bremen ended the season one point ahead of bayern munich , leaving hamburg to finish 11th .
legendary bremen coach otto rehhagel described the victory as a " milestone " for the club . hamburg 5-0 bremen , may 15 , 1982 one of hamburg 's two highest-ever wins against their northern derby rivals came in the closing stages of the 1981/1982 campaign .
a total of 53,400 fans watched horst hrubesch - now germany 's under-21 coach - score a hat-trick as hamburg demolished bremen 's defense to win the bundesliga title at the expense of second-placed fc cologne . author : sam edmonds editor : darren mara send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de hamburg move closer to uefa final after bremen defeat sv hamburg took the advantage on thursday after defeating bremen 1-0 in the first leg of their uefa cup semi-final matches .
hamburg 's coach says their position is good for the second leg , but bremen is not giving up .
-lrb- 01.05.2009 -rrb- german , ukrainian clubs fight for uefa cup honors domestic pride will be at stake in europe when ukrainian and german clubs battle against each other in the semi-finals of the uefa cup in first-leg matches on thursday .
-lrb- 30.04.2009 -rrb- werder bremen beat hamburg in cup semi-final bremen beat hamburg on penalties to reach the cup final .
bremen 's goalie tim wiese was the man of the game as he saved three penalties .
his side will now face leverkusen in the final .
-lrb- 23.04.2009 -rrb- 9798 dw-tv europe live in focus - documentaries and reports we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live european business week rescues , reviews and bubbles listen live dw-radio would you listen ?
the best of german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report referees a new high-tech center in spain hopes to help referees improve their skills .
listen to the report media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
bremen book a place in the uefa cup final , clinching a win against rivals hamburg -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de soccer -pipe- 07.05.2009 bremen book a place in the uefa cup final , clinching a win against rivals hamburg großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bremen 's diego scores but will miss the uefa cup final .
werder bremen came from a goal down to win 3-2 away to sv hamburg thursday to book a uefa cup final date in istanbul against ukrainian side shakhtar donetsk . diego , claudio pizarro and frank baumann were the goal-scoring heroes for bremen to advance to their first ever european final on may 20 in istanbul .
bremen went into the clash trailing 1-0 from the first leg but conceded a goal to hosts hamburg in the 13th minute when joris mathijsen powered his way upfield from defence before finding ivica olic who chipped the ball over bremen 's goalkeepr tim wiese .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : hamburgs 's ivica olic , left , scores his side 's first goal past bremen 's goalkeeper tim wiese olic could have doubled hamburg 's lead on 27 minutes but his effort from close range was saved .
within two minutes bremen were level when diego and pizarro combined well before the brazilian slotted the ball past frank rost .
diego nearly netted a second on 37 minutes but his shot from 25 metres hit the crossbar .
however , the 24-year-old was booked two minutes before the break for an off-the-ball row with alex silva , who also saw yellow , meaning the brazilian will miss the final .
" it was a difficult situation i did n't do anything , not to go to the final is very bad for me , " said diego .
peruvian striker pizarro scored on 66 minutes , beating rost at the near post although the hamburg goalkeeper really should have done better .
baumann looked to have put the game beyond hamburg with bremen 's third seven minutes from time and although olic popped up to score his second of the game to make it 3-2 on the night to set up a tense finale , bremen held on to make it to their first uefa cup final .
" we played well , it was tough to come from two goals down , " said pizarro .
" diego played a great match its a pity he 's not in the final but thats football . "
bremen are the first german side to reach a uefa cup final since borussia dortmund reached the final in 2002 only to lose against feyenoord rotterdam .
ruhr valley side schalke 04 were the last german winners back in 1997 .
same procedure ?
thursday 's semi-final fixture is the third in a series of four matches to be played between the two northern german clubs within a 19-day period . the first game went bremen 's way when goalkeeper tim wiese made three saves in a penalty shootout to knock hamburg out of the german cup semi-final on april 22 . the second saw hamburg gain revenge eight days later with its 0-1 victory in bremen .
the fourth and final derby match is a bundesliga fixture scheduled for sunday , may 10 . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : thomas schaaf has coached werder bremen for a decade intense rivalry as the two biggest cities in northern germany , hamburg and bremen have a long history of competing with each other as hanseatic trading powers , regional centers of industry and culture , and sporting contenders . " what 's very special is that they more or less share the same backyard from which they can get their soccer fans , " deutsche welle 's sports head wolfgang van kann says .
" so it 's always a question of who is better , and where the fans will go . " from a historical perspective , it 's difficult to say which club has been more successful .
according to the so-called " eternal table , " which records the performances of all bundesliga clubs since the competition was founded in 1963 , werder bremen and hamburg are ranked second and third respectively .
at the time of writing , they were separated by just six points . " clearly hamburg has the longer tradition and the longer streak of success , " van kann says .
" bremen has only come up in the last one or two decades , but with huge success . " while hamburg has n't won a title since it lifted the german cup in 1987 , bremen won the german double in 2004 and has qualified for the champions league for the past five seasons . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : fans were disgusted when hooligans killed a 16-year-old in 1982 " the clubs have always been very different , " van kann explains .
" for example you can see that hamburg has had several coaches within the past few years , while bremen has only had one coach for the last 10 years . " fan violence one thing the two clubs do have in common is a dedicated fan base .
hamburg boasts almost 55,000 members , while bremen has more than 30,000 .
but violence involving so-called " ultras " and militant fan groups has driven a wedge between the two cities on more than one occasion . the worst incident took place in october 1982 , when hamburg hosted bremen for a second-round german cup match .
despite a large police presence around the main train station and the stadium , hooligans belonging to a group known as the " hamburg lions " attacked visitors with beer cans , stones and fireworks . a 16-year-old bremen fan named adrian maleika was killed after he was hit on the head by a stone .
while most of germany was shocked , a number of hard-line fans were quoted in the press as being indifferent or hungry for revenge . tensions between supporters of the rival clubs threatened to boil over until representatives of more than 200 fan groups met in the town of scheessel , half-way between bremen and hamburg , and signed a " peace deal " banning revenge attacks . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : werder bremen topped the bundesliga in 1993 and 2004 while provocative lyrics sung in stadiums during northern derbies occasionally refer to the incident , most fans have put the conflict behind them , and prefer to remember - or forget - these four landmark matches from the past 30 years : bremen 6-0 hamburg , may 1 , 2004 the most one-sided result between the two clubs was in bremen as the 2003-04 bundesliga season drew to an end .
some 42,000 spectators watched hamburg striker sergej barbarez score an own-goal and trigger an avalanche of bremen goals .
one match later , werder bremen won the championship with a spectacular 3-1 victory over bayern munich . bremen 4-2 hamburg , october 27 , 1993 just over 34,000 fans turned out to watch the fourth round german cup fixture in bremen 's weserstadion .
austrian midfielder andreas herzog gave bremen an early lead , but hamburg managed to score twice after the break before bernd hobsch leveled the scores in the 74th minute .
when hamburg 's andreas sassen was shown a red card , bremen 's frank neubarth and wynton rufer capitalized by both finding the net in the final four minutes .
the convincing victory saw werder bremen progress through the tournament to win the 1993 german cup . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : horst hrubesch was a key player for hamburg in 1982 .
bremen 5-0 hamburg , may 29 , 1993 bremen also secured the bundesliga crown with one game to spare in 1993 thanks to this overwhelming victory .
andreas herzog and wynton rufer both scored as the home crowd celebrated their club 's third title .
bremen ended the season one point ahead of bayern munich , leaving hamburg to finish 11th .
legendary bremen coach otto rehhagel described the victory as a " milestone " for the club . hamburg 5-0 bremen , may 15 , 1982 one of hamburg 's two highest-ever wins against their northern derby rivals came in the closing stages of the 1981/1982 campaign .
a total of 53,400 fans watched horst hrubesch - now germany 's under-21 coach - score a hat-trick as hamburg demolished bremen 's defense to win the bundesliga title at the expense of second-placed fc cologne . author : sam edmonds editor : darren mara send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de hamburg move closer to uefa final after bremen defeat sv hamburg took the advantage on thursday after defeating bremen 1-0 in the first leg of their uefa cup semi-final matches .
hamburg 's coach says their position is good for the second leg , but bremen is not giving up .
-lrb- 01.05.2009 -rrb- german , ukrainian clubs fight for uefa cup honors domestic pride will be at stake in europe when ukrainian and german clubs battle against each other in the semi-finals of the uefa cup in first-leg matches on thursday .
-lrb- 30.04.2009 -rrb- werder bremen beat hamburg in cup semi-final bremen beat hamburg on penalties to reach the cup final .
bremen 's goalie tim wiese was the man of the game as he saved three penalties .
his side will now face leverkusen in the final .
-lrb- 23.04.2009 -rrb- 9798 dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit wirtschaft we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio listen to the latest from german soccer on dw-radio .
sports report final standings click here for the final 2010-11 bundesliga table . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german language lover on quest to save " chinglish " -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 22.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle music art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de from the fringe -pipe- 07.05.2009 german language lover on quest to save " chinglish " großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : just one of the thousands of examples to be found in china a german multimedia producer is working hard to preserve chinglish – china 's special version of english – for future generations . for 32-year-old oliver radtke , his fascination with chinglish began in 2000 , when he noticed a sign while in a shanghai taxi : " do n't forget to carry your thing , " it said .
since then , he has published two books on the subject . most recently , " more chinglish - speaking in tongues , " which hit shelves in april . he also maintains a popular online blog .
there is a view held by many in china , and not least by the authorities , that chinglish is an embarrassment that must be wiped out at all costs .
radtke disagrees .
he says the " language " should be preserved .
" there is a lot in chinglish that is so much more than just incompetent english or incorrect english , " he said .
" a lot of the chinglish signs carry a certain chinese notion in them which enriches the english language and makes english more chinese in the sense that there is a certain chinese flavor , a certain chinese way of thinking . "
radtke focuses on written examples of the lingo on signboards , menu cards and shop fronts .
some signs highlighted in his books are decidedly politically incorrect - " cripple 's lane , " rather than " wheelchair path , " or " deformed man toilet , " instead of " handicapped restroom . "
others are more poetic , such as one sign reminding visitors to one section of the great wall of china to be careful : " do not forget the fire is heartless . "
chinese citizens warming to " chinglish " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : oliver 's book " welcome to presence " " the initial reaction of many chinese users was very much against the project .
they thought i was making fun of them , " radtke said .
but he says the chinese are increasingly supportive of his efforts , and many have come to understand that he believes chinglish is in fact enriching the english language .
radtke , as a german , believes the entire notion of one single , standard version of english is outdated because it now has far more than one billion regular users worldwide , and a rapidly growing number speak it as their second language .
in recent years , china has kicked off campaigns to root out poor english grammar and misused vocabulary in official usage .
much to radtke 's horror , the most famous of these drives took place in beijing prior to the olympic games in august last year .
during that time , authorities rechristened the dongda proctology hospital , formerly the dongda anus hospital .
however radtke maintains these campaigns will never fully succeed .
he 's optimistic that chinglish will never disappear from the mainstream .
" i 'm pessimistic when it comes to official signs in the big cities .
but restaurants , companies , private institutions , small shop owners will all produce a lot of chinglish , " he says . cg , dfm afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de eu to english speakers : put your mouth where the money is the european union wants native english speakers to put their mouths where the money is : translation work .
the bloc , which has 23 official languages , is sending out an urgent youtube plea for more english translators .
-lrb- 19.02.2009 -rrb- immigrants help create new type of german language in multicultural urban areas of germany , a new variant of german has evolved with its own grammar and rhythm .
this ethnolect is spoken among young migrants of various ethnic backgrounds as well as young native germans .
-lrb- 08.12.2007 -rrb- wanderlust sends german words traveling what do autobahn , fest , flugelhorn , angst and gesundheit all have in common ?
you guessed it : they all come from the language of goethe , thomas mann and rammstein .
you know more german words than you think you do .
-lrb- 08.08.2006 -rrb- 9798 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
twitter follow dw culture keep up on europe 's culture and lifestyle scene .
cuisine get a taste of europe with these gourmet recipes .
lamb with vegetable casserole sole meunière tortelloni with artichoke filling sea bass in a salt crust swabian spätzle veal schnitzel from switzerland seafood from scotland recent picture galleries summer sunglasses car fetish exhibition berlin fashion week day of the kiss ai weiwei , the photographer podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's free podcast series .
german pop - max prosa ' german pop ' homepage word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
view from my window radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
soundscape 100 concert hour arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german language lover on quest to save " chinglish " -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 26.03.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de from the fringe -pipe- 07.05.2009 german language lover on quest to save " chinglish " großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : just one of the thousands of examples to be found in china a german multimedia producer is working hard to preserve chinglish – china 's special version of english – for future generations . for 32-year-old oliver radtke , his fascination with chinglish began in 2000 , when he noticed a sign while in a shanghai taxi : " do n't forget to carry your thing , " it said .
since then , he has published two books on the subject . most recently , " more chinglish - speaking in tongues , " which hit shelves in april . he also maintains a popular online blog .
there is a view held by many in china , and not least by the authorities , that chinglish is an embarrassment that must be wiped out at all costs .
radtke disagrees .
he says the " language " should be preserved .
" there is a lot in chinglish that is so much more than just incompetent english or incorrect english , " he said .
" a lot of the chinglish signs carry a certain chinese notion in them which enriches the english language and makes english more chinese in the sense that there is a certain chinese flavor , a certain chinese way of thinking . "
radtke focuses on written examples of the lingo on signboards , menu cards and shop fronts .
some signs highlighted in his books are decidedly politically incorrect - " cripple 's lane , " rather than " wheelchair path , " or " deformed man toilet , " instead of " handicapped restroom . "
others are more poetic , such as one sign reminding visitors to one section of the great wall of china to be careful : " do not forget the fire is heartless . "
chinese citizens warming to " chinglish " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : oliver 's book " welcome to presence " " the initial reaction of many chinese users was very much against the project .
they thought i was making fun of them , " radtke said .
but he says the chinese are increasingly supportive of his efforts , and many have come to understand that he believes chinglish is in fact enriching the english language .
radtke , as a german , believes the entire notion of one single , standard version of english is outdated because it now has far more than one billion regular users worldwide , and a rapidly growing number speak it as their second language .
in recent years , china has kicked off campaigns to root out poor english grammar and misused vocabulary in official usage .
much to radtke 's horror , the most famous of these drives took place in beijing prior to the olympic games in august last year .
during that time , authorities rechristened the dongda proctology hospital , formerly the dongda anus hospital .
however radtke maintains these campaigns will never fully succeed .
he 's optimistic that chinglish will never disappear from the mainstream .
" i 'm pessimistic when it comes to official signs in the big cities .
but restaurants , companies , private institutions , small shop owners will all produce a lot of chinglish , " he says . cg , dfm afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de eu to english speakers : put your mouth where the money is the european union wants native english speakers to put their mouths where the money is : translation work .
the bloc , which has 23 official languages , is sending out an urgent youtube plea for more english translators .
-lrb- 19.02.2009 -rrb- immigrants help create new type of german language in multicultural urban areas of germany , a new variant of german has evolved with its own grammar and rhythm .
this ethnolect is spoken among young migrants of various ethnic backgrounds as well as young native germans .
-lrb- 08.12.2007 -rrb- wanderlust sends german words traveling what do autobahn , fest , flugelhorn , angst and gesundheit all have in common ?
you guessed it : they all come from the language of goethe , thomas mann and rammstein .
you know more german words than you think you do .
-lrb- 08.08.2006 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
food try these recipes for a taste of europe .
hearty irish stew knödel dumplings with meat filling ribolitta from florence berlin-style pork with potatoes fish from lake traunsee in austria cologne fish with gourmet twist sweet-savory pheasant from leeds escudella vegetable and meat soup podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's new free podcast .
' clip ' homepage clip no. 10 - 1000 robota with a new take on punk subscribe on itunes get the rss feed word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
soundscape 100 concert hour arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth news quiz test your knowledge with the news quiz ! © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german language lover on quest to save " chinglish " -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 29.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle music art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de from the fringe -pipe- 07.05.2009 german language lover on quest to save " chinglish " großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : just one of the thousands of examples to be found in china a german multimedia producer is working hard to preserve chinglish – china 's special version of english – for future generations . for 32-year-old oliver radtke , his fascination with chinglish began in 2000 , when he noticed a sign while in a shanghai taxi : " do n't forget to carry your thing , " it said .
since then , he has published two books on the subject . most recently , " more chinglish - speaking in tongues , " which hit shelves in april . he also maintains a popular online blog .
there is a view held by many in china , and not least by the authorities , that chinglish is an embarrassment that must be wiped out at all costs .
radtke disagrees .
he says the " language " should be preserved .
" there is a lot in chinglish that is so much more than just incompetent english or incorrect english , " he said .
" a lot of the chinglish signs carry a certain chinese notion in them which enriches the english language and makes english more chinese in the sense that there is a certain chinese flavor , a certain chinese way of thinking . "
radtke focuses on written examples of the lingo on signboards , menu cards and shop fronts .
some signs highlighted in his books are decidedly politically incorrect - " cripple 's lane , " rather than " wheelchair path , " or " deformed man toilet , " instead of " handicapped restroom . "
others are more poetic , such as one sign reminding visitors to one section of the great wall of china to be careful : " do not forget the fire is heartless . "
chinese citizens warming to " chinglish " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : oliver 's book " welcome to presence " " the initial reaction of many chinese users was very much against the project .
they thought i was making fun of them , " radtke said .
but he says the chinese are increasingly supportive of his efforts , and many have come to understand that he believes chinglish is in fact enriching the english language .
radtke , as a german , believes the entire notion of one single , standard version of english is outdated because it now has far more than one billion regular users worldwide , and a rapidly growing number speak it as their second language .
in recent years , china has kicked off campaigns to root out poor english grammar and misused vocabulary in official usage .
much to radtke 's horror , the most famous of these drives took place in beijing prior to the olympic games in august last year .
during that time , authorities rechristened the dongda proctology hospital , formerly the dongda anus hospital .
however radtke maintains these campaigns will never fully succeed .
he 's optimistic that chinglish will never disappear from the mainstream .
" i 'm pessimistic when it comes to official signs in the big cities .
but restaurants , companies , private institutions , small shop owners will all produce a lot of chinglish , " he says . cg , dfm afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de eu to english speakers : put your mouth where the money is the european union wants native english speakers to put their mouths where the money is : translation work .
the bloc , which has 23 official languages , is sending out an urgent youtube plea for more english translators .
-lrb- 19.02.2009 -rrb- immigrants help create new type of german language in multicultural urban areas of germany , a new variant of german has evolved with its own grammar and rhythm .
this ethnolect is spoken among young migrants of various ethnic backgrounds as well as young native germans .
-lrb- 08.12.2007 -rrb- wanderlust sends german words traveling what do autobahn , fest , flugelhorn , angst and gesundheit all have in common ?
you guessed it : they all come from the language of goethe , thomas mann and rammstein .
you know more german words than you think you do .
-lrb- 08.08.2006 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's new free podcast .
' clip ' homepage clip no. 11 - jupiter jones are moving on up subscribe on itunes get the rss feed word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
soundscape 100 concert hour arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth news quiz test your knowledge with the news quiz ! © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german language lover on quest to save " chinglish " -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de from the fringe -pipe- 07.05.2009 german language lover on quest to save " chinglish " großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : just one of the thousands of examples to be found in china a german multimedia producer is working hard to preserve chinglish – china 's special version of english – for future generations . for 32-year-old oliver radtke , his fascination with chinglish began in 2000 , when he noticed a sign while in a shanghai taxi : " do n't forget to carry your thing , " it said .
since then , he has published two books on the subject . most recently , " more chinglish - speaking in tongues , " which hit shelves in april . he also maintains a popular online blog .
there is a view held by many in china , and not least by the authorities , that chinglish is an embarrassment that must be wiped out at all costs .
radtke disagrees .
he says the " language " should be preserved .
" there is a lot in chinglish that is so much more than just incompetent english or incorrect english , " he said .
" a lot of the chinglish signs carry a certain chinese notion in them which enriches the english language and makes english more chinese in the sense that there is a certain chinese flavor , a certain chinese way of thinking . "
radtke focuses on written examples of the lingo on signboards , menu cards and shop fronts .
some signs highlighted in his books are decidedly politically incorrect - " cripple 's lane , " rather than " wheelchair path , " or " deformed man toilet , " instead of " handicapped restroom . "
others are more poetic , such as one sign reminding visitors to one section of the great wall of china to be careful : " do not forget the fire is heartless . "
chinese citizens warming to " chinglish " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : oliver 's book " welcome to presence " " the initial reaction of many chinese users was very much against the project .
they thought i was making fun of them , " radtke said .
but he says the chinese are increasingly supportive of his efforts , and many have come to understand that he believes chinglish is in fact enriching the english language .
radtke , as a german , believes the entire notion of one single , standard version of english is outdated because it now has far more than one billion regular users worldwide , and a rapidly growing number speak it as their second language .
in recent years , china has kicked off campaigns to root out poor english grammar and misused vocabulary in official usage .
much to radtke 's horror , the most famous of these drives took place in beijing prior to the olympic games in august last year .
during that time , authorities rechristened the dongda proctology hospital , formerly the dongda anus hospital .
however radtke maintains these campaigns will never fully succeed .
he 's optimistic that chinglish will never disappear from the mainstream .
" i 'm pessimistic when it comes to official signs in the big cities .
but restaurants , companies , private institutions , small shop owners will all produce a lot of chinglish , " he says . cg , dfm afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de eu to english speakers : put your mouth where the money is the european union wants native english speakers to put their mouths where the money is : translation work .
the bloc , which has 23 official languages , is sending out an urgent youtube plea for more english translators .
-lrb- 19.02.2009 -rrb- immigrants help create new type of german language in multicultural urban areas of germany , a new variant of german has evolved with its own grammar and rhythm .
this ethnolect is spoken among young migrants of various ethnic backgrounds as well as young native germans .
-lrb- 08.12.2007 -rrb- wanderlust sends german words traveling what do autobahn , fest , flugelhorn , angst and gesundheit all have in common ?
you guessed it : they all come from the language of goethe , thomas mann and rammstein .
you know more german words than you think you do .
-lrb- 08.08.2006 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
picture gallery christmas markets holiday cheer ís easy to come by during the advent season in germany .
travel explore some of europe 's most fascinating cities with dw-tv 's euromaxx .
athens , greece trieste , italy krakow , poland le mans , france tarragona , spain oslo , norway edinburgh , scotland dresden , germany podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's new free podcast .
' clip ' homepage clip no. 4 - the intersphere clip no. 5 - shantel clip no. 6 - klee clip no. 7 - einshoch6 subscribe on itunes get the rss feed word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
hits in germany concert hour music this week arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth music dw presents podcasts of performances by top artists at the 2010 beethovenfest .
podcasts on itunes more on beethoven © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german language lover on quest to save " chinglish " -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de from the fringe -pipe- 07.05.2009 german language lover on quest to save " chinglish " großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : just one of the thousands of examples to be found in china a german multimedia producer is working hard to preserve chinglish – china 's special version of english – for future generations . for 32-year-old oliver radtke , his fascination with chinglish began in 2000 , when he noticed a sign while in a shanghai taxi : " do n't forget to carry your thing , " it said .
since then , he has published two books on the subject . most recently , " more chinglish - speaking in tongues , " which hit shelves in april . he also maintains a popular online blog .
there is a view held by many in china , and not least by the authorities , that chinglish is an embarrassment that must be wiped out at all costs .
radtke disagrees .
he says the " language " should be preserved .
" there is a lot in chinglish that is so much more than just incompetent english or incorrect english , " he said .
" a lot of the chinglish signs carry a certain chinese notion in them which enriches the english language and makes english more chinese in the sense that there is a certain chinese flavor , a certain chinese way of thinking . "
radtke focuses on written examples of the lingo on signboards , menu cards and shop fronts .
some signs highlighted in his books are decidedly politically incorrect - " cripple 's lane , " rather than " wheelchair path , " or " deformed man toilet , " instead of " handicapped restroom . "
others are more poetic , such as one sign reminding visitors to one section of the great wall of china to be careful : " do not forget the fire is heartless . "
chinese citizens warming to " chinglish " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : oliver 's book " welcome to presence " " the initial reaction of many chinese users was very much against the project .
they thought i was making fun of them , " radtke said .
but he says the chinese are increasingly supportive of his efforts , and many have come to understand that he believes chinglish is in fact enriching the english language .
radtke , as a german , believes the entire notion of one single , standard version of english is outdated because it now has far more than one billion regular users worldwide , and a rapidly growing number speak it as their second language .
in recent years , china has kicked off campaigns to root out poor english grammar and misused vocabulary in official usage .
much to radtke 's horror , the most famous of these drives took place in beijing prior to the olympic games in august last year .
during that time , authorities rechristened the dongda proctology hospital , formerly the dongda anus hospital .
however radtke maintains these campaigns will never fully succeed .
he 's optimistic that chinglish will never disappear from the mainstream .
" i 'm pessimistic when it comes to official signs in the big cities .
but restaurants , companies , private institutions , small shop owners will all produce a lot of chinglish , " he says . cg , dfm afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de eu to english speakers : put your mouth where the money is the european union wants native english speakers to put their mouths where the money is : translation work .
the bloc , which has 23 official languages , is sending out an urgent youtube plea for more english translators .
-lrb- 19.02.2009 -rrb- immigrants help create new type of german language in multicultural urban areas of germany , a new variant of german has evolved with its own grammar and rhythm .
this ethnolect is spoken among young migrants of various ethnic backgrounds as well as young native germans .
-lrb- 08.12.2007 -rrb- wanderlust sends german words traveling what do autobahn , fest , flugelhorn , angst and gesundheit all have in common ?
you guessed it : they all come from the language of goethe , thomas mann and rammstein .
you know more german words than you think you do .
-lrb- 08.08.2006 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 dw-tv europe live im focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live cities at the heart of most european cities , there 's a plaza , piazza or platz where everything happens .
place charles de gaulle , paris plaza mayor , madrid potsdamer platz , berlin st. mark 's square , venice literature urban writing crowded , intriguing and often impovrished , the world 's megacities inspire their writers .
culture calendar september happenings from music and art to film and dance - find out what 's going on in germany 's cultural scene .
podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's new free podcast .
clip no. 1 - luis und laserpower clip no. 2 - abel & cain clip no. 3 - baby benzin clip no. 4 - the intersphere subscribe on itunes get the rss feed word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
hits in germany concert hour music this week arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german language lover on quest to save " chinglish " -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de from the fringe -pipe- 07.05.2009 german language lover on quest to save " chinglish " großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : just one of the thousands of examples to be found in china a german multimedia producer is working hard to preserve chinglish – china 's special version of english – for future generations . for 32-year-old oliver radtke , his fascination with chinglish began in 2000 , when he noticed a sign while in a shanghai taxi : " do n't forget to carry your thing , " it said .
since then , he has published two books on the subject . most recently , " more chinglish - speaking in tongues , " which hit shelves in april . he also maintains a popular online blog .
there is a view held by many in china , and not least by the authorities , that chinglish is an embarrassment that must be wiped out at all costs .
radtke disagrees .
he says the " language " should be preserved .
" there is a lot in chinglish that is so much more than just incompetent english or incorrect english , " he said .
" a lot of the chinglish signs carry a certain chinese notion in them which enriches the english language and makes english more chinese in the sense that there is a certain chinese flavor , a certain chinese way of thinking . "
radtke focuses on written examples of the lingo on signboards , menu cards and shop fronts .
some signs highlighted in his books are decidedly politically incorrect - " cripple 's lane , " rather than " wheelchair path , " or " deformed man toilet , " instead of " handicapped restroom . "
others are more poetic , such as one sign reminding visitors to one section of the great wall of china to be careful : " do not forget the fire is heartless . "
chinese citizens warming to " chinglish " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : oliver 's book " welcome to presence " " the initial reaction of many chinese users was very much against the project .
they thought i was making fun of them , " radtke said .
but he says the chinese are increasingly supportive of his efforts , and many have come to understand that he believes chinglish is in fact enriching the english language .
radtke , as a german , believes the entire notion of one single , standard version of english is outdated because it now has far more than one billion regular users worldwide , and a rapidly growing number speak it as their second language .
in recent years , china has kicked off campaigns to root out poor english grammar and misused vocabulary in official usage .
much to radtke 's horror , the most famous of these drives took place in beijing prior to the olympic games in august last year .
during that time , authorities rechristened the dongda proctology hospital , formerly the dongda anus hospital .
however radtke maintains these campaigns will never fully succeed .
he 's optimistic that chinglish will never disappear from the mainstream .
" i 'm pessimistic when it comes to official signs in the big cities .
but restaurants , companies , private institutions , small shop owners will all produce a lot of chinglish , " he says . cg , dfm afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de eu to english speakers : put your mouth where the money is the european union wants native english speakers to put their mouths where the money is : translation work .
the bloc , which has 23 official languages , is sending out an urgent youtube plea for more english translators .
-lrb- 19.02.2009 -rrb- immigrants help create new type of german language in multicultural urban areas of germany , a new variant of german has evolved with its own grammar and rhythm .
this ethnolect is spoken among young migrants of various ethnic backgrounds as well as young native germans .
-lrb- 08.12.2007 -rrb- wanderlust sends german words traveling what do autobahn , fest , flugelhorn , angst and gesundheit all have in common ?
you guessed it : they all come from the language of goethe , thomas mann and rammstein .
you know more german words than you think you do .
-lrb- 08.08.2006 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 dw-tv europe live global 3000 we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live spectrum listen live culture calendar october happenings from music and art to film and dance - find out what 's going on in germany 's cultural scene .
music dw presents podcasts of performances by top artists at the 2010 beethovenfest .
podcasts on itunes more on beethoven food and drink taste europe 's highlights .
specialty beer from sylt oyster safari in denmark a meal in provence podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's new free podcast .
clip no. 1 - luis und laserpower clip no. 2 - abel & cain clip no. 3 - baby benzin clip no. 4 - the intersphere clip no. 5 - shantel subscribe on itunes get the rss feed word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
hits in germany concert hour music this week arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german language lover on quest to save " chinglish " -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 15.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de from the fringe -pipe- 07.05.2009 german language lover on quest to save " chinglish " großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : just one of the thousands of examples to be found in china a german multimedia producer is working hard to preserve chinglish – china 's special version of english – for future generations . for 32-year-old oliver radtke , his fascination with chinglish began in 2000 , when he noticed a sign while in a shanghai taxi : " do n't forget to carry your thing , " it said .
since then , he has published two books on the subject . most recently , " more chinglish - speaking in tongues , " which hit shelves in april . he also maintains a popular online blog .
there is a view held by many in china , and not least by the authorities , that chinglish is an embarrassment that must be wiped out at all costs .
radtke disagrees .
he says the " language " should be preserved .
" there is a lot in chinglish that is so much more than just incompetent english or incorrect english , " he said .
" a lot of the chinglish signs carry a certain chinese notion in them which enriches the english language and makes english more chinese in the sense that there is a certain chinese flavor , a certain chinese way of thinking . "
radtke focuses on written examples of the lingo on signboards , menu cards and shop fronts .
some signs highlighted in his books are decidedly politically incorrect - " cripple 's lane , " rather than " wheelchair path , " or " deformed man toilet , " instead of " handicapped restroom . "
others are more poetic , such as one sign reminding visitors to one section of the great wall of china to be careful : " do not forget the fire is heartless . "
chinese citizens warming to " chinglish " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : oliver 's book " welcome to presence " " the initial reaction of many chinese users was very much against the project .
they thought i was making fun of them , " radtke said .
but he says the chinese are increasingly supportive of his efforts , and many have come to understand that he believes chinglish is in fact enriching the english language .
radtke , as a german , believes the entire notion of one single , standard version of english is outdated because it now has far more than one billion regular users worldwide , and a rapidly growing number speak it as their second language .
in recent years , china has kicked off campaigns to root out poor english grammar and misused vocabulary in official usage .
much to radtke 's horror , the most famous of these drives took place in beijing prior to the olympic games in august last year .
during that time , authorities rechristened the dongda proctology hospital , formerly the dongda anus hospital .
however radtke maintains these campaigns will never fully succeed .
he 's optimistic that chinglish will never disappear from the mainstream .
" i 'm pessimistic when it comes to official signs in the big cities .
but restaurants , companies , private institutions , small shop owners will all produce a lot of chinglish , " he says . cg , dfm afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de eu to english speakers : put your mouth where the money is the european union wants native english speakers to put their mouths where the money is : translation work .
the bloc , which has 23 official languages , is sending out an urgent youtube plea for more english translators .
-lrb- 19.02.2009 -rrb- immigrants help create new type of german language in multicultural urban areas of germany , a new variant of german has evolved with its own grammar and rhythm .
this ethnolect is spoken among young migrants of various ethnic backgrounds as well as young native germans .
-lrb- 08.12.2007 -rrb- wanderlust sends german words traveling what do autobahn , fest , flugelhorn , angst and gesundheit all have in common ?
you guessed it : they all come from the language of goethe , thomas mann and rammstein .
you know more german words than you think you do .
-lrb- 08.08.2006 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inspired minds one to one with author tom rachman listen live culture calendar november happenings from music and art to film and dance - find out what 's going on in germany 's cultural scene .
podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's new free podcast .
' clip ' homepage clip no. 3 - baby benzin clip no. 4 - the intersphere clip no. 5 - shantel clip no. 6 - klee clip no. 7 - einshoch6 subscribe on itunes get the rss feed word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
hits in germany concert hour music this week arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth music dw presents podcasts of performances by top artists at the 2010 beethovenfest .
podcasts on itunes more on beethoven © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
deutsche telekom posts large first-quarter loss -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 06.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business 125 years automobile science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de communications -pipe- 07.05.2009 deutsche telekom posts large first-quarter loss großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the loss brings dark clouds to deutsche telekom germany 's telecommunications operator , deutsche telekom , has blamed the economic downturn and intense competition for its first quarter loss of 1.12 billion euros . the bonn-based company announced the big loss for the january-march period , and compared it to the net profit of 924 million euros -lrb- $ 1.2 billion -rrb- it posted in the first quarter of 2008 .
it attributed the loss to a devaluation of its british t-mobile unit and " the strong economic slowdown and more intense competition in the united kingdom . "
however , in a written statement , the telecommunications giant announced it had an increase in total sales , up 6.2 percent on the same period last year .
that was explained by the integration of greek telecom operator ote into deutsche telekom 's books in february .
" the figures we are presenting today show a mixed picture , " deutsche telekom chairman rene obermann said .
" despite the difficult environment in some markets , we are in a relatively stable position , " he added .
meanwhile , the financial times deutschland has reported that telekom plans job cuts in its t-systems unit , saying that 1,500 workers will be laid off .
rene obermann has denied the report . cg / dfm / rm , afp / ap send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de t-mobile rules out compensation after network failure germany 's largest mobile phone operator has ruled out paying compensation after an embarrassing outage in its network left millions of customers without service .
-lrb- 23.04.2009 -rrb- deutsche bank extends ceo 's contract amid first-quarter profits deutsche bank chief josef ackermann has agreed to another three years at the helm , while the bank made good on disastrous 2008 figures by posting impressive first quarter profits .
-lrb- 28.04.2009 -rrb- germany 's munich re posts 2008 profit of 1.5 billion euros munich re , the world 's second biggest re-insurance group , on wednesday posted a net profit of 1.5 billion euros -lrb- $ 1.9 billion -rrb- for 2008 , with a slight gain of around 100 million euros in the last quarter .
-lrb- 04.02.2009 -rrb- 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit tagesthema we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live stock exchange today in history 1946 : the first bikini dw-tv get an inside look at some of germany 's more unusual companies .
flying the german flag - costly voyages for shipping companies captains in the classroom - rostock 's maritime school organbuilding - the art and craft of the perfect sound saving makes cents – new heating technology for industry © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
deutsche telekom posts large first-quarter loss -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 25.03.2011 home news germany europe world asia business 125 years automobile science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de communications -pipe- 07.05.2009 deutsche telekom posts large first-quarter loss großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the loss brings dark clouds to deutsche telekom germany 's telecommunications operator , deutsche telekom , has blamed the economic downturn and intense competition for its first quarter loss of 1.12 billion euros . the bonn-based company announced the big loss for the january-march period , and compared it to the net profit of 924 million euros -lrb- $ 1.2 billion -rrb- it posted in the first quarter of 2008 .
it attributed the loss to a devaluation of its british t-mobile unit and " the strong economic slowdown and more intense competition in the united kingdom . "
however , in a written statement , the telecommunications giant announced it had an increase in total sales , up 6.2 percent on the same period last year .
that was explained by the integration of greek telecom operator ote into deutsche telekom 's books in february .
" the figures we are presenting today show a mixed picture , " deutsche telekom chairman rene obermann said .
" despite the difficult environment in some markets , we are in a relatively stable position , " he added .
meanwhile , the financial times deutschland has reported that telekom plans job cuts in its t-systems unit , saying that 1,500 workers will be laid off .
rene obermann has denied the report . cg / dfm / rm , afp / ap send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de t-mobile rules out compensation after network failure germany 's largest mobile phone operator has ruled out paying compensation after an embarrassing outage in its network left millions of customers without service .
-lrb- 23.04.2009 -rrb- deutsche bank extends ceo 's contract amid first-quarter profits deutsche bank chief josef ackermann has agreed to another three years at the helm , while the bank made good on disastrous 2008 figures by posting impressive first quarter profits .
-lrb- 28.04.2009 -rrb- germany 's munich re posts 2008 profit of 1.5 billion euros munich re , the world 's second biggest re-insurance group , on wednesday posted a net profit of 1.5 billion euros -lrb- $ 1.9 billion -rrb- for 2008 , with a slight gain of around 100 million euros in the last quarter .
-lrb- 04.02.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week money , power and heavy metal : listen to the latest european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-tv europe live quadriga we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live european business week money , power and heavy metal listen live banking get an inside look at some of germany 's more unusual companies .
olkiluoto 3 - finland builds the world 's biggest nuclear power plant nuclear power plants : after a shutdown peter paffhausen : from nuclear manager to green energy advocate heightened fears : geiger counters fly off the shelves stock exchange today in history 1957 : treaty of rome © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
deutsche telekom posts large first-quarter loss -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 28.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business 125 years automobile science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de communications -pipe- 07.05.2009 deutsche telekom posts large first-quarter loss großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the loss brings dark clouds to deutsche telekom germany 's telecommunications operator , deutsche telekom , has blamed the economic downturn and intense competition for its first quarter loss of 1.12 billion euros . the bonn-based company announced the big loss for the january-march period , and compared it to the net profit of 924 million euros -lrb- $ 1.2 billion -rrb- it posted in the first quarter of 2008 .
it attributed the loss to a devaluation of its british t-mobile unit and " the strong economic slowdown and more intense competition in the united kingdom . "
however , in a written statement , the telecommunications giant announced it had an increase in total sales , up 6.2 percent on the same period last year .
that was explained by the integration of greek telecom operator ote into deutsche telekom 's books in february .
" the figures we are presenting today show a mixed picture , " deutsche telekom chairman rene obermann said .
" despite the difficult environment in some markets , we are in a relatively stable position , " he added .
meanwhile , the financial times deutschland has reported that telekom plans job cuts in its t-systems unit , saying that 1,500 workers will be laid off .
rene obermann has denied the report . cg / dfm / rm , afp / ap send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de t-mobile rules out compensation after network failure germany 's largest mobile phone operator has ruled out paying compensation after an embarrassing outage in its network left millions of customers without service .
-lrb- 23.04.2009 -rrb- deutsche bank extends ceo 's contract amid first-quarter profits deutsche bank chief josef ackermann has agreed to another three years at the helm , while the bank made good on disastrous 2008 figures by posting impressive first quarter profits .
-lrb- 28.04.2009 -rrb- germany 's munich re posts 2008 profit of 1.5 billion euros munich re , the world 's second biggest re-insurance group , on wednesday posted a net profit of 1.5 billion euros -lrb- $ 1.9 billion -rrb- for 2008 , with a slight gain of around 100 million euros in the last quarter .
-lrb- 04.02.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live arts on the air listen live dw-tv get an inside look at some of germany 's more unusual companies .
export champion - surteco makes the furniture industry go round freedom of movement - working across eu borders real estate boom - more and more people are investing in berlin audi and the dtm , part 3 - big race , big business stock exchange today in history 1972 : motion of no confidence against willy brandt © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
deutsche telekom posts large first-quarter loss -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 17.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de communications -pipe- 07.05.2009 deutsche telekom posts large first-quarter loss großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the loss brings dark clouds to deutsche telekom germany 's telecommunications operator , deutsche telekom , has blamed the economic downturn and intense competition for its first quarter loss of 1.12 billion euros . the bonn-based company announced the big loss for the january-march period , and compared it to the net profit of 924 million euros -lrb- $ 1.2 billion -rrb- it posted in the first quarter of 2008 .
it attributed the loss to a devaluation of its british t-mobile unit and " the strong economic slowdown and more intense competition in the united kingdom . "
however , in a written statement , the telecommunications giant announced it had an increase in total sales , up 6.2 percent on the same period last year .
that was explained by the integration of greek telecom operator ote into deutsche telekom 's books in february .
" the figures we are presenting today show a mixed picture , " deutsche telekom chairman rene obermann said .
" despite the difficult environment in some markets , we are in a relatively stable position , " he added .
meanwhile , the financial times deutschland has reported that telekom plans job cuts in its t-systems unit , saying that 1,500 workers will be laid off .
rene obermann has denied the report . cg / dfm / rm , afp / ap send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de t-mobile rules out compensation after network failure germany 's largest mobile phone operator has ruled out paying compensation after an embarrassing outage in its network left millions of customers without service .
-lrb- 23.04.2009 -rrb- deutsche bank extends ceo 's contract amid first-quarter profits deutsche bank chief josef ackermann has agreed to another three years at the helm , while the bank made good on disastrous 2008 figures by posting impressive first quarter profits .
-lrb- 28.04.2009 -rrb- germany 's munich re posts 2008 profit of 1.5 billion euros munich re , the world 's second biggest re-insurance group , on wednesday posted a net profit of 1.5 billion euros -lrb- $ 1.9 billion -rrb- for 2008 , with a slight gain of around 100 million euros in the last quarter .
-lrb- 04.02.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live stock exchange today in history 1833 : kaspar hauser dies © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
deutsche telekom posts large first-quarter loss -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 01.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business 125 years automobile science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de communications -pipe- 07.05.2009 deutsche telekom posts large first-quarter loss großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the loss brings dark clouds to deutsche telekom germany 's telecommunications operator , deutsche telekom , has blamed the economic downturn and intense competition for its first quarter loss of 1.12 billion euros . the bonn-based company announced the big loss for the january-march period , and compared it to the net profit of 924 million euros -lrb- $ 1.2 billion -rrb- it posted in the first quarter of 2008 .
it attributed the loss to a devaluation of its british t-mobile unit and " the strong economic slowdown and more intense competition in the united kingdom . "
however , in a written statement , the telecommunications giant announced it had an increase in total sales , up 6.2 percent on the same period last year .
that was explained by the integration of greek telecom operator ote into deutsche telekom 's books in february .
" the figures we are presenting today show a mixed picture , " deutsche telekom chairman rene obermann said .
" despite the difficult environment in some markets , we are in a relatively stable position , " he added .
meanwhile , the financial times deutschland has reported that telekom plans job cuts in its t-systems unit , saying that 1,500 workers will be laid off .
rene obermann has denied the report . cg / dfm / rm , afp / ap send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de t-mobile rules out compensation after network failure germany 's largest mobile phone operator has ruled out paying compensation after an embarrassing outage in its network left millions of customers without service .
-lrb- 23.04.2009 -rrb- deutsche bank extends ceo 's contract amid first-quarter profits deutsche bank chief josef ackermann has agreed to another three years at the helm , while the bank made good on disastrous 2008 figures by posting impressive first quarter profits .
-lrb- 28.04.2009 -rrb- germany 's munich re posts 2008 profit of 1.5 billion euros munich re , the world 's second biggest re-insurance group , on wednesday posted a net profit of 1.5 billion euros -lrb- $ 1.9 billion -rrb- for 2008 , with a slight gain of around 100 million euros in the last quarter .
-lrb- 04.02.2009 -rrb- 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live stock exchange today in history 1945 : the " rubble women " get started dw-tv get an inside look at some of germany 's more unusual companies .
flying the german flag - costly voyages for shipping companies captains in the classroom - rostock 's maritime school organbuilding - the art and craft of the perfect sound saving makes cents – new heating technology for industry © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
deutsche telekom posts large first-quarter loss -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 11.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de communications -pipe- 07.05.2009 deutsche telekom posts large first-quarter loss großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the loss brings dark clouds to deutsche telekom germany 's telecommunications operator , deutsche telekom , has blamed the economic downturn and intense competition for its first quarter loss of 1.12 billion euros . the bonn-based company announced the big loss for the january-march period , and compared it to the net profit of 924 million euros -lrb- $ 1.2 billion -rrb- it posted in the first quarter of 2008 .
it attributed the loss to a devaluation of its british t-mobile unit and " the strong economic slowdown and more intense competition in the united kingdom . "
however , in a written statement , the telecommunications giant announced it had an increase in total sales , up 6.2 percent on the same period last year .
that was explained by the integration of greek telecom operator ote into deutsche telekom 's books in february .
" the figures we are presenting today show a mixed picture , " deutsche telekom chairman rene obermann said .
" despite the difficult environment in some markets , we are in a relatively stable position , " he added .
meanwhile , the financial times deutschland has reported that telekom plans job cuts in its t-systems unit , saying that 1,500 workers will be laid off .
rene obermann has denied the report . cg / dfm / rm , afp / ap send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de t-mobile rules out compensation after network failure germany 's largest mobile phone operator has ruled out paying compensation after an embarrassing outage in its network left millions of customers without service .
-lrb- 23.04.2009 -rrb- deutsche bank extends ceo 's contract amid first-quarter profits deutsche bank chief josef ackermann has agreed to another three years at the helm , while the bank made good on disastrous 2008 figures by posting impressive first quarter profits .
-lrb- 28.04.2009 -rrb- germany 's munich re posts 2008 profit of 1.5 billion euros munich re , the world 's second biggest re-insurance group , on wednesday posted a net profit of 1.5 billion euros -lrb- $ 1.9 billion -rrb- for 2008 , with a slight gain of around 100 million euros in the last quarter .
-lrb- 04.02.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week world a global player dw takes a look at china 's rising political influence that has accompanied its economic growth .
labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live in focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inside europe listen live stock exchange today in history 1867 : " das kapital " © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
deutsche telekom posts large first-quarter loss -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 15.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de communications -pipe- 07.05.2009 deutsche telekom posts large first-quarter loss großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the loss brings dark clouds to deutsche telekom germany 's telecommunications operator , deutsche telekom , has blamed the economic downturn and intense competition for its first quarter loss of 1.12 billion euros . the bonn-based company announced the big loss for the january-march period , and compared it to the net profit of 924 million euros -lrb- $ 1.2 billion -rrb- it posted in the first quarter of 2008 .
it attributed the loss to a devaluation of its british t-mobile unit and " the strong economic slowdown and more intense competition in the united kingdom . "
however , in a written statement , the telecommunications giant announced it had an increase in total sales , up 6.2 percent on the same period last year .
that was explained by the integration of greek telecom operator ote into deutsche telekom 's books in february .
" the figures we are presenting today show a mixed picture , " deutsche telekom chairman rene obermann said .
" despite the difficult environment in some markets , we are in a relatively stable position , " he added .
meanwhile , the financial times deutschland has reported that telekom plans job cuts in its t-systems unit , saying that 1,500 workers will be laid off .
rene obermann has denied the report . cg / dfm / rm , afp / ap send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de t-mobile rules out compensation after network failure germany 's largest mobile phone operator has ruled out paying compensation after an embarrassing outage in its network left millions of customers without service .
-lrb- 23.04.2009 -rrb- deutsche bank extends ceo 's contract amid first-quarter profits deutsche bank chief josef ackermann has agreed to another three years at the helm , while the bank made good on disastrous 2008 figures by posting impressive first quarter profits .
-lrb- 28.04.2009 -rrb- germany 's munich re posts 2008 profit of 1.5 billion euros munich re , the world 's second biggest re-insurance group , on wednesday posted a net profit of 1.5 billion euros -lrb- $ 1.9 billion -rrb- for 2008 , with a slight gain of around 100 million euros in the last quarter .
-lrb- 04.02.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live kultur.21 we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live in-box feedback from around the world listen live stock exchange today in history 1920 : first league of nations meeting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
deutsche telekom posts large first-quarter loss -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de communications -pipe- 07.05.2009 deutsche telekom posts large first-quarter loss großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the loss brings dark clouds to deutsche telekom germany 's telecommunications operator , deutsche telekom , has blamed the economic downturn and intense competition for its first quarter loss of 1.12 billion euros . the bonn-based company announced the big loss for the january-march period , and compared it to the net profit of 924 million euros -lrb- $ 1.2 billion -rrb- it posted in the first quarter of 2008 .
it attributed the loss to a devaluation of its british t-mobile unit and " the strong economic slowdown and more intense competition in the united kingdom . "
however , in a written statement , the telecommunications giant announced it had an increase in total sales , up 6.2 percent on the same period last year .
that was explained by the integration of greek telecom operator ote into deutsche telekom 's books in february .
" the figures we are presenting today show a mixed picture , " deutsche telekom chairman rene obermann said .
" despite the difficult environment in some markets , we are in a relatively stable position , " he added .
meanwhile , the financial times deutschland has reported that telekom plans job cuts in its t-systems unit , saying that 1,500 workers will be laid off .
rene obermann has denied the report . cg / dfm / rm , afp / ap send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de t-mobile rules out compensation after network failure germany 's largest mobile phone operator has ruled out paying compensation after an embarrassing outage in its network left millions of customers without service .
-lrb- 23.04.2009 -rrb- deutsche bank extends ceo 's contract amid first-quarter profits deutsche bank chief josef ackermann has agreed to another three years at the helm , while the bank made good on disastrous 2008 figures by posting impressive first quarter profits .
-lrb- 28.04.2009 -rrb- germany 's munich re posts 2008 profit of 1.5 billion euros munich re , the world 's second biggest re-insurance group , on wednesday posted a net profit of 1.5 billion euros -lrb- $ 1.9 billion -rrb- for 2008 , with a slight gain of around 100 million euros in the last quarter .
-lrb- 04.02.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week the european business week page listen to european business week labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live living in germany listen live stock exchange today in history 1492 : columbus reaches america © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
us-russia arms control deal first step towards global disarmament -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 26.03.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de defense -pipe- 07.05.2009 us-russia arms control deal first step towards global disarmament großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : moscow and washington want to curb nuclear proliferation us and russian officials will begin to negotiate a deal to cut their nuclear weapons arsenals in the coming weeks .
if they succeed , it could convince other nuclear powers to follow suit . the goal is clear and shared by both countries .
russia and the us want to reduce their number of nuclear missiles and replace the old bilateral start arms reduction treaty , which will expire at the end of the year , with a new arms control pact .
a preliminary meeting between the two sides has been described by the russian foreign ministry as " constructive " and " businesslike , " increasing the expectations for a positive outcome .
" i think generally the chances for success are very good " , says oliver meier , international representative of the arms control association .
" both sides on the major issues are really not far apart .
they have the same ideas in mind in terms of overall reductions in warheads , " he added .
" they have the same preferences in terms of having a legally binding , verifiable treaty .
the problem is that the timetable is very challenging because they are aiming for an agreement in the next couple of months and that will be very tough . "
if , as expected , it takes longer to solve the remaining differences , such as whether to include stored warheads as russia wants or not include them as the us wants , the existing start treaty could simply be extended beyond its expiration date at the end of the year .
as an alternative , another similar treaty could be signed until a more ambitious arms deal is reached in a second round of talks .
different categories of nuclear powers bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : barack obama has a long-term vision of a nuclear weapon free world while the prospects to strike a deal with russia look positive , president barack obama has a much loftier vision which he announced in his speech in prague in april : a world free of nuclear weapons .
but could a new arms control agreement between the us and russia , which combined possess at least 90 percent of all nuclear weapons , really put that much pressure on other nuclear powers and launch a global trend towards nuclear disarmament ?
miles pomper , a senior research associate at the center for non-proliferation studies , cautions against unrealistic expectations of a russian-american arms deal on other nations with nuclear weapons .
" what it might do is within the non-proliferation treaty process it would convince other countries of the goodwill of the united states and russia to meet their commitments to make steps toward nuclear disarmament and by doing that those other countries could increase the pressure on the irans and north koreas -lrb- of this world -rrb- to comply with their non-proliferation commitments .
but it 's not a kind of direct correlation . "
the experts point out that it is important to consider that the countries possessing nuclear weapons ca n't simply be lumped together .
the first category of nations , consisting of the states recognized by the nuclear non-proliferation treaty , includes france , britain and china .
getting them involved in arms reduction negotiations would probably be easier than to approach the second group of countries , consisting of india , pakistan , israel and north korea , states that are not formally recognized by the non-proliferation treaty .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : iran and north korea are a risk to regional security , the west says of the official nuclear powers , britain and china tend to be open towards international nuclear disarmament while france has taken a more reluctant stance towards disarmament .
british prime minister gordon brown was speaking about a nuclear free world even before barack obama and china traditionally had voiced a preference for a nuclear weapons free world , the experts point out . it 's a whole different story with the group of unofficial nuclear states .
with them it 's all about regional security , says oliver meier .
" if you go talk about israel of course you have the problem of the middle east , you have the problem of iran and very much will depend on what progress is made in the middle east .
" india and pakistan , of course you have the situation in south asia , the rivalry between those states .
and north korea is anybody 's bet .
that is at the moment very difficult to predict what policy north korea is pursuing . "
political climate has changed bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some in nuclear-armed pakistan harbor hatred of the us and india while it is helpful to keep obama 's vision - a nuclear free world - in mind , it is important to focus on the concrete steps that have to be taken first by russia and the us .
to merely amend or extend the existing start treaty in a first round of negotiations will take time .
to hammer out a new deal with more aggressive cuts in nuclear weapons will require even more patience , says miles pomper .
" just those two negotiations might take all of obama 's first term , assuming there 's a second term .
so i think until you get those you ca n't really judge the third round and maybe bringing other countries into the negotiations . "
obama of course knows himself that the goal of a nuclear free world is a political marathon , not a sprint .
in his speech in prague , he admitted that this goal may not be reached in his lifetime .
still , the global political conditions for a long time have n't been as conducive to nuclear arms reductions as they are right now .
" we now have from a range of people and governments a list of proposals how to move forward towards that goal , " argues oliver meier .
" for the first time in many , many years we have that discussion being led by a range of political actors , but also by the public , who have not taken this goal serious before .
and of course to have the united states in the leadership role has changed the political dynamics a lot . "
author : michael knigge editor : robert mudge send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de obama calls for end to nuclear weapons in prague speech us president barack obama has announced ambitious plans to rid the world of nuclear weapons at a speech in prague .
yet his support for a controversial us missile shield in eastern europe could anger russia .
-lrb- 05.04.2009 -rrb- five security council powers , germany offer direct dialog with iran the five permanent members of the un security council and germany on tuesday offered direct dialogue with iran to solve the ongoing nuclear standoff with the islamic republic .
-lrb- 04.03.2009 -rrb- iran 's new missiles add to europe 's nuclear worries iran alarmed the international community this week by using newly-developed missile technology to launch a satellite into space .
envoys from six countries are meeting in germany on wednesday to plan a response .
-lrb- 04.02.2009 -rrb- north korea says it has reactivated its nuclear program pyongyang says it has reactivated its nuclear program to " bolster the deterrence for self-defence in every way to cope with the increasing military threats from the hostile forces . " -lrb- 25.04.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
transatlantic voices expert opinion no international cooperation has been declared dead or dying as often as the european union .
international conference media representatives around the world gather in bonn to discuss human rights .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
us-russia arms control deal first step towards global disarmament -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 28.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de defense -pipe- 07.05.2009 us-russia arms control deal first step towards global disarmament großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : moscow and washington want to curb nuclear proliferation us and russian officials will begin to negotiate a deal to cut their nuclear weapons arsenals in the coming weeks .
if they succeed , it could convince other nuclear powers to follow suit . the goal is clear and shared by both countries .
russia and the us want to reduce their number of nuclear missiles and replace the old bilateral start arms reduction treaty , which will expire at the end of the year , with a new arms control pact .
a preliminary meeting between the two sides has been described by the russian foreign ministry as " constructive " and " businesslike , " increasing the expectations for a positive outcome .
" i think generally the chances for success are very good " , says oliver meier , international representative of the arms control association .
" both sides on the major issues are really not far apart .
they have the same ideas in mind in terms of overall reductions in warheads , " he added .
" they have the same preferences in terms of having a legally binding , verifiable treaty .
the problem is that the timetable is very challenging because they are aiming for an agreement in the next couple of months and that will be very tough . "
if , as expected , it takes longer to solve the remaining differences , such as whether to include stored warheads as russia wants or not include them as the us wants , the existing start treaty could simply be extended beyond its expiration date at the end of the year .
as an alternative , another similar treaty could be signed until a more ambitious arms deal is reached in a second round of talks .
different categories of nuclear powers bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : barack obama has a long-term vision of a nuclear weapon free world while the prospects to strike a deal with russia look positive , president barack obama has a much loftier vision which he announced in his speech in prague in april : a world free of nuclear weapons .
but could a new arms control agreement between the us and russia , which combined possess at least 90 percent of all nuclear weapons , really put that much pressure on other nuclear powers and launch a global trend towards nuclear disarmament ?
miles pomper , a senior research associate at the center for non-proliferation studies , cautions against unrealistic expectations of a russian-american arms deal on other nations with nuclear weapons .
" what it might do is within the non-proliferation treaty process it would convince other countries of the goodwill of the united states and russia to meet their commitments to make steps toward nuclear disarmament and by doing that those other countries could increase the pressure on the irans and north koreas -lrb- of this world -rrb- to comply with their non-proliferation commitments .
but it 's not a kind of direct correlation . "
the experts point out that it is important to consider that the countries possessing nuclear weapons ca n't simply be lumped together .
the first category of nations , consisting of the states recognized by the nuclear non-proliferation treaty , includes france , britain and china .
getting them involved in arms reduction negotiations would probably be easier than to approach the second group of countries , consisting of india , pakistan , israel and north korea , states that are not formally recognized by the non-proliferation treaty .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : iran and north korea are a risk to regional security , the west says of the official nuclear powers , britain and china tend to be open towards international nuclear disarmament while france has taken a more reluctant stance towards disarmament .
british prime minister gordon brown was speaking about a nuclear free world even before barack obama and china traditionally had voiced a preference for a nuclear weapons free world , the experts point out . it 's a whole different story with the group of unofficial nuclear states .
with them it 's all about regional security , says oliver meier .
" if you go talk about israel of course you have the problem of the middle east , you have the problem of iran and very much will depend on what progress is made in the middle east .
" india and pakistan , of course you have the situation in south asia , the rivalry between those states .
and north korea is anybody 's bet .
that is at the moment very difficult to predict what policy north korea is pursuing . "
political climate has changed bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some in nuclear-armed pakistan harbor hatred of the us and india while it is helpful to keep obama 's vision - a nuclear free world - in mind , it is important to focus on the concrete steps that have to be taken first by russia and the us .
to merely amend or extend the existing start treaty in a first round of negotiations will take time .
to hammer out a new deal with more aggressive cuts in nuclear weapons will require even more patience , says miles pomper .
" just those two negotiations might take all of obama 's first term , assuming there 's a second term .
so i think until you get those you ca n't really judge the third round and maybe bringing other countries into the negotiations . "
obama of course knows himself that the goal of a nuclear free world is a political marathon , not a sprint .
in his speech in prague , he admitted that this goal may not be reached in his lifetime .
still , the global political conditions for a long time have n't been as conducive to nuclear arms reductions as they are right now .
" we now have from a range of people and governments a list of proposals how to move forward towards that goal , " argues oliver meier .
" for the first time in many , many years we have that discussion being led by a range of political actors , but also by the public , who have not taken this goal serious before .
and of course to have the united states in the leadership role has changed the political dynamics a lot . "
author : michael knigge editor : robert mudge send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de obama calls for end to nuclear weapons in prague speech us president barack obama has announced ambitious plans to rid the world of nuclear weapons at a speech in prague .
yet his support for a controversial us missile shield in eastern europe could anger russia .
-lrb- 05.04.2009 -rrb- five security council powers , germany offer direct dialog with iran the five permanent members of the un security council and germany on tuesday offered direct dialogue with iran to solve the ongoing nuclear standoff with the islamic republic .
-lrb- 04.03.2009 -rrb- iran 's new missiles add to europe 's nuclear worries iran alarmed the international community this week by using newly-developed missile technology to launch a satellite into space .
envoys from six countries are meeting in germany on wednesday to plan a response .
-lrb- 04.02.2009 -rrb- north korea says it has reactivated its nuclear program pyongyang says it has reactivated its nuclear program to " bolster the deterrence for self-defence in every way to cope with the increasing military threats from the hostile forces . " -lrb- 25.04.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
focus on syria rattling a regime in-depth coverage of the violent protests against the syrian government .
podcast series a london teen helps integrate autistic adults into society .
download the report subscribe to the series on itunes past episodes international conference media representatives around the world gather in bonn to discuss human rights .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
us-russia arms control deal first step towards global disarmament -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 17.12.2010 home news germany europe world from tierra del fuego to tijuana asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de defense -pipe- 07.05.2009 us-russia arms control deal first step towards global disarmament großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : moscow and washington want to curb nuclear proliferation us and russian officials will begin to negotiate a deal to cut their nuclear weapons arsenals in the coming weeks .
if they succeed , it could convince other nuclear powers to follow suit . the goal is clear and shared by both countries .
russia and the us want to reduce their number of nuclear missiles and replace the old bilateral start arms reduction treaty , which will expire at the end of the year , with a new arms control pact .
a preliminary meeting between the two sides has been described by the russian foreign ministry as " constructive " and " businesslike , " increasing the expectations for a positive outcome .
" i think generally the chances for success are very good " , says oliver meier , international representative of the arms control association .
" both sides on the major issues are really not far apart .
they have the same ideas in mind in terms of overall reductions in warheads , " he added .
" they have the same preferences in terms of having a legally binding , verifiable treaty .
the problem is that the timetable is very challenging because they are aiming for an agreement in the next couple of months and that will be very tough . "
if , as expected , it takes longer to solve the remaining differences , such as whether to include stored warheads as russia wants or not include them as the us wants , the existing start treaty could simply be extended beyond its expiration date at the end of the year .
as an alternative , another similar treaty could be signed until a more ambitious arms deal is reached in a second round of talks .
different categories of nuclear powers bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : barack obama has a long-term vision of a nuclear weapon free world while the prospects to strike a deal with russia look positive , president barack obama has a much loftier vision which he announced in his speech in prague in april : a world free of nuclear weapons .
but could a new arms control agreement between the us and russia , which combined possess at least 90 percent of all nuclear weapons , really put that much pressure on other nuclear powers and launch a global trend towards nuclear disarmament ?
miles pomper , a senior research associate at the center for non-proliferation studies , cautions against unrealistic expectations of a russian-american arms deal on other nations with nuclear weapons .
" what it might do is within the non-proliferation treaty process it would convince other countries of the goodwill of the united states and russia to meet their commitments to make steps toward nuclear disarmament and by doing that those other countries could increase the pressure on the irans and north koreas -lrb- of this world -rrb- to comply with their non-proliferation commitments .
but it 's not a kind of direct correlation . "
the experts point out that it is important to consider that the countries possessing nuclear weapons ca n't simply be lumped together .
the first category of nations , consisting of the states recognized by the nuclear non-proliferation treaty , includes france , britain and china .
getting them involved in arms reduction negotiations would probably be easier than to approach the second group of countries , consisting of india , pakistan , israel and north korea , states that are not formally recognized by the non-proliferation treaty .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : iran and north korea are a risk to regional security , the west says of the official nuclear powers , britain and china tend to be open towards international nuclear disarmament while france has taken a more reluctant stance towards disarmament .
british prime minister gordon brown was speaking about a nuclear free world even before barack obama and china traditionally had voiced a preference for a nuclear weapons free world , the experts point out . it 's a whole different story with the group of unofficial nuclear states .
with them it 's all about regional security , says oliver meier .
" if you go talk about israel of course you have the problem of the middle east , you have the problem of iran and very much will depend on what progress is made in the middle east .
" india and pakistan , of course you have the situation in south asia , the rivalry between those states .
and north korea is anybody 's bet .
that is at the moment very difficult to predict what policy north korea is pursuing . "
political climate has changed bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some in nuclear-armed pakistan harbor hatred of the us and india while it is helpful to keep obama 's vision - a nuclear free world - in mind , it is important to focus on the concrete steps that have to be taken first by russia and the us .
to merely amend or extend the existing start treaty in a first round of negotiations will take time .
to hammer out a new deal with more aggressive cuts in nuclear weapons will require even more patience , says miles pomper .
" just those two negotiations might take all of obama 's first term , assuming there 's a second term .
so i think until you get those you ca n't really judge the third round and maybe bringing other countries into the negotiations . "
obama of course knows himself that the goal of a nuclear free world is a political marathon , not a sprint .
in his speech in prague , he admitted that this goal may not be reached in his lifetime .
still , the global political conditions for a long time have n't been as conducive to nuclear arms reductions as they are right now .
" we now have from a range of people and governments a list of proposals how to move forward towards that goal , " argues oliver meier .
" for the first time in many , many years we have that discussion being led by a range of political actors , but also by the public , who have not taken this goal serious before .
and of course to have the united states in the leadership role has changed the political dynamics a lot . "
author : michael knigge editor : robert mudge send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de obama calls for end to nuclear weapons in prague speech us president barack obama has announced ambitious plans to rid the world of nuclear weapons at a speech in prague .
yet his support for a controversial us missile shield in eastern europe could anger russia .
-lrb- 05.04.2009 -rrb- five security council powers , germany offer direct dialog with iran the five permanent members of the un security council and germany on tuesday offered direct dialogue with iran to solve the ongoing nuclear standoff with the islamic republic .
-lrb- 04.03.2009 -rrb- iran 's new missiles add to europe 's nuclear worries iran alarmed the international community this week by using newly-developed missile technology to launch a satellite into space .
envoys from six countries are meeting in germany on wednesday to plan a response .
-lrb- 04.02.2009 -rrb- north korea says it has reactivated its nuclear program pyongyang says it has reactivated its nuclear program to " bolster the deterrence for self-defence in every way to cope with the increasing military threats from the hostile forces . " -lrb- 25.04.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
focus wikileaks read our dw-world focus on the latest wikileaks revelations and their impact around the globe .
african aid germany has been slow to react to the way china and others are changing the rules on aid for africa .
watch the video learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan new web site check out deutsche welle 's new asia page in english .
dw asia online latin america take a multimedia journey discover the region and its people news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's newest media partner © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
us-russia arms control deal first step towards global disarmament -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 01.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de defense -pipe- 07.05.2009 us-russia arms control deal first step towards global disarmament großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : moscow and washington want to curb nuclear proliferation us and russian officials will begin to negotiate a deal to cut their nuclear weapons arsenals in the coming weeks .
if they succeed , it could convince other nuclear powers to follow suit . the goal is clear and shared by both countries .
russia and the us want to reduce their number of nuclear missiles and replace the old bilateral start arms reduction treaty , which will expire at the end of the year , with a new arms control pact .
a preliminary meeting between the two sides has been described by the russian foreign ministry as " constructive " and " businesslike , " increasing the expectations for a positive outcome .
" i think generally the chances for success are very good " , says oliver meier , international representative of the arms control association .
" both sides on the major issues are really not far apart .
they have the same ideas in mind in terms of overall reductions in warheads , " he added .
" they have the same preferences in terms of having a legally binding , verifiable treaty .
the problem is that the timetable is very challenging because they are aiming for an agreement in the next couple of months and that will be very tough . "
if , as expected , it takes longer to solve the remaining differences , such as whether to include stored warheads as russia wants or not include them as the us wants , the existing start treaty could simply be extended beyond its expiration date at the end of the year .
as an alternative , another similar treaty could be signed until a more ambitious arms deal is reached in a second round of talks .
different categories of nuclear powers bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : barack obama has a long-term vision of a nuclear weapon free world while the prospects to strike a deal with russia look positive , president barack obama has a much loftier vision which he announced in his speech in prague in april : a world free of nuclear weapons .
but could a new arms control agreement between the us and russia , which combined possess at least 90 percent of all nuclear weapons , really put that much pressure on other nuclear powers and launch a global trend towards nuclear disarmament ?
miles pomper , a senior research associate at the center for non-proliferation studies , cautions against unrealistic expectations of a russian-american arms deal on other nations with nuclear weapons .
" what it might do is within the non-proliferation treaty process it would convince other countries of the goodwill of the united states and russia to meet their commitments to make steps toward nuclear disarmament and by doing that those other countries could increase the pressure on the irans and north koreas -lrb- of this world -rrb- to comply with their non-proliferation commitments .
but it 's not a kind of direct correlation . "
the experts point out that it is important to consider that the countries possessing nuclear weapons ca n't simply be lumped together .
the first category of nations , consisting of the states recognized by the nuclear non-proliferation treaty , includes france , britain and china .
getting them involved in arms reduction negotiations would probably be easier than to approach the second group of countries , consisting of india , pakistan , israel and north korea , states that are not formally recognized by the non-proliferation treaty .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : iran and north korea are a risk to regional security , the west says of the official nuclear powers , britain and china tend to be open towards international nuclear disarmament while france has taken a more reluctant stance towards disarmament .
british prime minister gordon brown was speaking about a nuclear free world even before barack obama and china traditionally had voiced a preference for a nuclear weapons free world , the experts point out . it 's a whole different story with the group of unofficial nuclear states .
with them it 's all about regional security , says oliver meier .
" if you go talk about israel of course you have the problem of the middle east , you have the problem of iran and very much will depend on what progress is made in the middle east .
" india and pakistan , of course you have the situation in south asia , the rivalry between those states .
and north korea is anybody 's bet .
that is at the moment very difficult to predict what policy north korea is pursuing . "
political climate has changed bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some in nuclear-armed pakistan harbor hatred of the us and india while it is helpful to keep obama 's vision - a nuclear free world - in mind , it is important to focus on the concrete steps that have to be taken first by russia and the us .
to merely amend or extend the existing start treaty in a first round of negotiations will take time .
to hammer out a new deal with more aggressive cuts in nuclear weapons will require even more patience , says miles pomper .
" just those two negotiations might take all of obama 's first term , assuming there 's a second term .
so i think until you get those you ca n't really judge the third round and maybe bringing other countries into the negotiations . "
obama of course knows himself that the goal of a nuclear free world is a political marathon , not a sprint .
in his speech in prague , he admitted that this goal may not be reached in his lifetime .
still , the global political conditions for a long time have n't been as conducive to nuclear arms reductions as they are right now .
" we now have from a range of people and governments a list of proposals how to move forward towards that goal , " argues oliver meier .
" for the first time in many , many years we have that discussion being led by a range of political actors , but also by the public , who have not taken this goal serious before .
and of course to have the united states in the leadership role has changed the political dynamics a lot . "
author : michael knigge editor : robert mudge send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de obama calls for end to nuclear weapons in prague speech us president barack obama has announced ambitious plans to rid the world of nuclear weapons at a speech in prague .
yet his support for a controversial us missile shield in eastern europe could anger russia .
-lrb- 05.04.2009 -rrb- five security council powers , germany offer direct dialog with iran the five permanent members of the un security council and germany on tuesday offered direct dialogue with iran to solve the ongoing nuclear standoff with the islamic republic .
-lrb- 04.03.2009 -rrb- iran 's new missiles add to europe 's nuclear worries iran alarmed the international community this week by using newly-developed missile technology to launch a satellite into space .
envoys from six countries are meeting in germany on wednesday to plan a response .
-lrb- 04.02.2009 -rrb- north korea says it has reactivated its nuclear program pyongyang says it has reactivated its nuclear program to " bolster the deterrence for self-defence in every way to cope with the increasing military threats from the hostile forces . " -lrb- 25.04.2009 -rrb- 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
in depth al qaeda 's future deutsche welle takes a closer look at osama bin laden and the terrorist network he spearheaded .
podcast series kades , from one of nairobi 's largest slums , plays djb in shujaaz , a weekly radio show .
download the podcast international conference media representatives around the world gather in bonn to discuss human rights .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
us-russia arms control deal first step towards global disarmament -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 11.09.2010 home news germany europe world from tierra del fuego to tijuana asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de defense -pipe- 07.05.2009 us-russia arms control deal first step towards global disarmament großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : moscow and washington want to curb nuclear proliferation us and russian officials will begin to negotiate a deal to cut their nuclear weapons arsenals in the coming weeks .
if they succeed , it could convince other nuclear powers to follow suit . the goal is clear and shared by both countries .
russia and the us want to reduce their number of nuclear missiles and replace the old bilateral start arms reduction treaty , which will expire at the end of the year , with a new arms control pact .
a preliminary meeting between the two sides has been described by the russian foreign ministry as " constructive " and " businesslike , " increasing the expectations for a positive outcome .
" i think generally the chances for success are very good " , says oliver meier , international representative of the arms control association .
" both sides on the major issues are really not far apart .
they have the same ideas in mind in terms of overall reductions in warheads , " he added .
" they have the same preferences in terms of having a legally binding , verifiable treaty .
the problem is that the timetable is very challenging because they are aiming for an agreement in the next couple of months and that will be very tough . "
if , as expected , it takes longer to solve the remaining differences , such as whether to include stored warheads as russia wants or not include them as the us wants , the existing start treaty could simply be extended beyond its expiration date at the end of the year .
as an alternative , another similar treaty could be signed until a more ambitious arms deal is reached in a second round of talks .
different categories of nuclear powers bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : barack obama has a long-term vision of a nuclear weapon free world while the prospects to strike a deal with russia look positive , president barack obama has a much loftier vision which he announced in his speech in prague in april : a world free of nuclear weapons .
but could a new arms control agreement between the us and russia , which combined possess at least 90 percent of all nuclear weapons , really put that much pressure on other nuclear powers and launch a global trend towards nuclear disarmament ?
miles pomper , a senior research associate at the center for non-proliferation studies , cautions against unrealistic expectations of a russian-american arms deal on other nations with nuclear weapons .
" what it might do is within the non-proliferation treaty process it would convince other countries of the goodwill of the united states and russia to meet their commitments to make steps toward nuclear disarmament and by doing that those other countries could increase the pressure on the irans and north koreas -lrb- of this world -rrb- to comply with their non-proliferation commitments .
but it 's not a kind of direct correlation . "
the experts point out that it is important to consider that the countries possessing nuclear weapons ca n't simply be lumped together .
the first category of nations , consisting of the states recognized by the nuclear non-proliferation treaty , includes france , britain and china .
getting them involved in arms reduction negotiations would probably be easier than to approach the second group of countries , consisting of india , pakistan , israel and north korea , states that are not formally recognized by the non-proliferation treaty .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : iran and north korea are a risk to regional security , the west says of the official nuclear powers , britain and china tend to be open towards international nuclear disarmament while france has taken a more reluctant stance towards disarmament .
british prime minister gordon brown was speaking about a nuclear free world even before barack obama and china traditionally had voiced a preference for a nuclear weapons free world , the experts point out . it 's a whole different story with the group of unofficial nuclear states .
with them it 's all about regional security , says oliver meier .
" if you go talk about israel of course you have the problem of the middle east , you have the problem of iran and very much will depend on what progress is made in the middle east .
" india and pakistan , of course you have the situation in south asia , the rivalry between those states .
and north korea is anybody 's bet .
that is at the moment very difficult to predict what policy north korea is pursuing . "
political climate has changed bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some in nuclear-armed pakistan harbor hatred of the us and india while it is helpful to keep obama 's vision - a nuclear free world - in mind , it is important to focus on the concrete steps that have to be taken first by russia and the us .
to merely amend or extend the existing start treaty in a first round of negotiations will take time .
to hammer out a new deal with more aggressive cuts in nuclear weapons will require even more patience , says miles pomper .
" just those two negotiations might take all of obama 's first term , assuming there 's a second term .
so i think until you get those you ca n't really judge the third round and maybe bringing other countries into the negotiations . "
obama of course knows himself that the goal of a nuclear free world is a political marathon , not a sprint .
in his speech in prague , he admitted that this goal may not be reached in his lifetime .
still , the global political conditions for a long time have n't been as conducive to nuclear arms reductions as they are right now .
" we now have from a range of people and governments a list of proposals how to move forward towards that goal , " argues oliver meier .
" for the first time in many , many years we have that discussion being led by a range of political actors , but also by the public , who have not taken this goal serious before .
and of course to have the united states in the leadership role has changed the political dynamics a lot . "
author : michael knigge editor : robert mudge send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de obama calls for end to nuclear weapons in prague speech us president barack obama has announced ambitious plans to rid the world of nuclear weapons at a speech in prague .
yet his support for a controversial us missile shield in eastern europe could anger russia .
-lrb- 05.04.2009 -rrb- five security council powers , germany offer direct dialog with iran the five permanent members of the un security council and germany on tuesday offered direct dialogue with iran to solve the ongoing nuclear standoff with the islamic republic .
-lrb- 04.03.2009 -rrb- iran 's new missiles add to europe 's nuclear worries iran alarmed the international community this week by using newly-developed missile technology to launch a satellite into space .
envoys from six countries are meeting in germany on wednesday to plan a response .
-lrb- 04.02.2009 -rrb- north korea says it has reactivated its nuclear program pyongyang says it has reactivated its nuclear program to " bolster the deterrence for self-defence in every way to cope with the increasing military threats from the hostile forces . " -lrb- 25.04.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live burning books the international community has condemned plans by a florida church to burn copies of the koran .
watch the video afghan elections the us commander in afghanistan , general petraeus , wants more nato troops ahead of elections .
watch the video the aftermath deptuy head of deutsche welle south asia thomas bärthlein talks to asia compact from islamabad .
listen to the interview images from pakistan learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan new web site check out deutsche welle 's new asia page in english .
dw asia online news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's newest media partner latin america take a multimedia journey discover the region and its people © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
us-russia arms control deal first step towards global disarmament -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 15.11.2010 home news germany europe world from tierra del fuego to tijuana asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de defense -pipe- 07.05.2009 us-russia arms control deal first step towards global disarmament großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : moscow and washington want to curb nuclear proliferation us and russian officials will begin to negotiate a deal to cut their nuclear weapons arsenals in the coming weeks .
if they succeed , it could convince other nuclear powers to follow suit . the goal is clear and shared by both countries .
russia and the us want to reduce their number of nuclear missiles and replace the old bilateral start arms reduction treaty , which will expire at the end of the year , with a new arms control pact .
a preliminary meeting between the two sides has been described by the russian foreign ministry as " constructive " and " businesslike , " increasing the expectations for a positive outcome .
" i think generally the chances for success are very good " , says oliver meier , international representative of the arms control association .
" both sides on the major issues are really not far apart .
they have the same ideas in mind in terms of overall reductions in warheads , " he added .
" they have the same preferences in terms of having a legally binding , verifiable treaty .
the problem is that the timetable is very challenging because they are aiming for an agreement in the next couple of months and that will be very tough . "
if , as expected , it takes longer to solve the remaining differences , such as whether to include stored warheads as russia wants or not include them as the us wants , the existing start treaty could simply be extended beyond its expiration date at the end of the year .
as an alternative , another similar treaty could be signed until a more ambitious arms deal is reached in a second round of talks .
different categories of nuclear powers bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : barack obama has a long-term vision of a nuclear weapon free world while the prospects to strike a deal with russia look positive , president barack obama has a much loftier vision which he announced in his speech in prague in april : a world free of nuclear weapons .
but could a new arms control agreement between the us and russia , which combined possess at least 90 percent of all nuclear weapons , really put that much pressure on other nuclear powers and launch a global trend towards nuclear disarmament ?
miles pomper , a senior research associate at the center for non-proliferation studies , cautions against unrealistic expectations of a russian-american arms deal on other nations with nuclear weapons .
" what it might do is within the non-proliferation treaty process it would convince other countries of the goodwill of the united states and russia to meet their commitments to make steps toward nuclear disarmament and by doing that those other countries could increase the pressure on the irans and north koreas -lrb- of this world -rrb- to comply with their non-proliferation commitments .
but it 's not a kind of direct correlation . "
the experts point out that it is important to consider that the countries possessing nuclear weapons ca n't simply be lumped together .
the first category of nations , consisting of the states recognized by the nuclear non-proliferation treaty , includes france , britain and china .
getting them involved in arms reduction negotiations would probably be easier than to approach the second group of countries , consisting of india , pakistan , israel and north korea , states that are not formally recognized by the non-proliferation treaty .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : iran and north korea are a risk to regional security , the west says of the official nuclear powers , britain and china tend to be open towards international nuclear disarmament while france has taken a more reluctant stance towards disarmament .
british prime minister gordon brown was speaking about a nuclear free world even before barack obama and china traditionally had voiced a preference for a nuclear weapons free world , the experts point out . it 's a whole different story with the group of unofficial nuclear states .
with them it 's all about regional security , says oliver meier .
" if you go talk about israel of course you have the problem of the middle east , you have the problem of iran and very much will depend on what progress is made in the middle east .
" india and pakistan , of course you have the situation in south asia , the rivalry between those states .
and north korea is anybody 's bet .
that is at the moment very difficult to predict what policy north korea is pursuing . "
political climate has changed bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some in nuclear-armed pakistan harbor hatred of the us and india while it is helpful to keep obama 's vision - a nuclear free world - in mind , it is important to focus on the concrete steps that have to be taken first by russia and the us .
to merely amend or extend the existing start treaty in a first round of negotiations will take time .
to hammer out a new deal with more aggressive cuts in nuclear weapons will require even more patience , says miles pomper .
" just those two negotiations might take all of obama 's first term , assuming there 's a second term .
so i think until you get those you ca n't really judge the third round and maybe bringing other countries into the negotiations . "
obama of course knows himself that the goal of a nuclear free world is a political marathon , not a sprint .
in his speech in prague , he admitted that this goal may not be reached in his lifetime .
still , the global political conditions for a long time have n't been as conducive to nuclear arms reductions as they are right now .
" we now have from a range of people and governments a list of proposals how to move forward towards that goal , " argues oliver meier .
" for the first time in many , many years we have that discussion being led by a range of political actors , but also by the public , who have not taken this goal serious before .
and of course to have the united states in the leadership role has changed the political dynamics a lot . "
author : michael knigge editor : robert mudge send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de obama calls for end to nuclear weapons in prague speech us president barack obama has announced ambitious plans to rid the world of nuclear weapons at a speech in prague .
yet his support for a controversial us missile shield in eastern europe could anger russia .
-lrb- 05.04.2009 -rrb- five security council powers , germany offer direct dialog with iran the five permanent members of the un security council and germany on tuesday offered direct dialogue with iran to solve the ongoing nuclear standoff with the islamic republic .
-lrb- 04.03.2009 -rrb- iran 's new missiles add to europe 's nuclear worries iran alarmed the international community this week by using newly-developed missile technology to launch a satellite into space .
envoys from six countries are meeting in germany on wednesday to plan a response .
-lrb- 04.02.2009 -rrb- north korea says it has reactivated its nuclear program pyongyang says it has reactivated its nuclear program to " bolster the deterrence for self-defence in every way to cope with the increasing military threats from the hostile forces . " -lrb- 25.04.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live concert hour leipzig 1 listen live oil spill inquiry a us presidential probe chides the oil industry for misjudging the dangers of deep-sea drilling .
watch the video learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan new web site check out deutsche welle 's new asia page in english .
dw asia online news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's newest media partner latin america take a multimedia journey discover the region and its people © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
us-russia arms control deal first step towards global disarmament -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.10.2010 home news germany europe world from tierra del fuego to tijuana asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de defense -pipe- 07.05.2009 us-russia arms control deal first step towards global disarmament großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : moscow and washington want to curb nuclear proliferation us and russian officials will begin to negotiate a deal to cut their nuclear weapons arsenals in the coming weeks .
if they succeed , it could convince other nuclear powers to follow suit . the goal is clear and shared by both countries .
russia and the us want to reduce their number of nuclear missiles and replace the old bilateral start arms reduction treaty , which will expire at the end of the year , with a new arms control pact .
a preliminary meeting between the two sides has been described by the russian foreign ministry as " constructive " and " businesslike , " increasing the expectations for a positive outcome .
" i think generally the chances for success are very good " , says oliver meier , international representative of the arms control association .
" both sides on the major issues are really not far apart .
they have the same ideas in mind in terms of overall reductions in warheads , " he added .
" they have the same preferences in terms of having a legally binding , verifiable treaty .
the problem is that the timetable is very challenging because they are aiming for an agreement in the next couple of months and that will be very tough . "
if , as expected , it takes longer to solve the remaining differences , such as whether to include stored warheads as russia wants or not include them as the us wants , the existing start treaty could simply be extended beyond its expiration date at the end of the year .
as an alternative , another similar treaty could be signed until a more ambitious arms deal is reached in a second round of talks .
different categories of nuclear powers bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : barack obama has a long-term vision of a nuclear weapon free world while the prospects to strike a deal with russia look positive , president barack obama has a much loftier vision which he announced in his speech in prague in april : a world free of nuclear weapons .
but could a new arms control agreement between the us and russia , which combined possess at least 90 percent of all nuclear weapons , really put that much pressure on other nuclear powers and launch a global trend towards nuclear disarmament ?
miles pomper , a senior research associate at the center for non-proliferation studies , cautions against unrealistic expectations of a russian-american arms deal on other nations with nuclear weapons .
" what it might do is within the non-proliferation treaty process it would convince other countries of the goodwill of the united states and russia to meet their commitments to make steps toward nuclear disarmament and by doing that those other countries could increase the pressure on the irans and north koreas -lrb- of this world -rrb- to comply with their non-proliferation commitments .
but it 's not a kind of direct correlation . "
the experts point out that it is important to consider that the countries possessing nuclear weapons ca n't simply be lumped together .
the first category of nations , consisting of the states recognized by the nuclear non-proliferation treaty , includes france , britain and china .
getting them involved in arms reduction negotiations would probably be easier than to approach the second group of countries , consisting of india , pakistan , israel and north korea , states that are not formally recognized by the non-proliferation treaty .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : iran and north korea are a risk to regional security , the west says of the official nuclear powers , britain and china tend to be open towards international nuclear disarmament while france has taken a more reluctant stance towards disarmament .
british prime minister gordon brown was speaking about a nuclear free world even before barack obama and china traditionally had voiced a preference for a nuclear weapons free world , the experts point out . it 's a whole different story with the group of unofficial nuclear states .
with them it 's all about regional security , says oliver meier .
" if you go talk about israel of course you have the problem of the middle east , you have the problem of iran and very much will depend on what progress is made in the middle east .
" india and pakistan , of course you have the situation in south asia , the rivalry between those states .
and north korea is anybody 's bet .
that is at the moment very difficult to predict what policy north korea is pursuing . "
political climate has changed bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some in nuclear-armed pakistan harbor hatred of the us and india while it is helpful to keep obama 's vision - a nuclear free world - in mind , it is important to focus on the concrete steps that have to be taken first by russia and the us .
to merely amend or extend the existing start treaty in a first round of negotiations will take time .
to hammer out a new deal with more aggressive cuts in nuclear weapons will require even more patience , says miles pomper .
" just those two negotiations might take all of obama 's first term , assuming there 's a second term .
so i think until you get those you ca n't really judge the third round and maybe bringing other countries into the negotiations . "
obama of course knows himself that the goal of a nuclear free world is a political marathon , not a sprint .
in his speech in prague , he admitted that this goal may not be reached in his lifetime .
still , the global political conditions for a long time have n't been as conducive to nuclear arms reductions as they are right now .
" we now have from a range of people and governments a list of proposals how to move forward towards that goal , " argues oliver meier .
" for the first time in many , many years we have that discussion being led by a range of political actors , but also by the public , who have not taken this goal serious before .
and of course to have the united states in the leadership role has changed the political dynamics a lot . "
author : michael knigge editor : robert mudge send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de obama calls for end to nuclear weapons in prague speech us president barack obama has announced ambitious plans to rid the world of nuclear weapons at a speech in prague .
yet his support for a controversial us missile shield in eastern europe could anger russia .
-lrb- 05.04.2009 -rrb- five security council powers , germany offer direct dialog with iran the five permanent members of the un security council and germany on tuesday offered direct dialogue with iran to solve the ongoing nuclear standoff with the islamic republic .
-lrb- 04.03.2009 -rrb- iran 's new missiles add to europe 's nuclear worries iran alarmed the international community this week by using newly-developed missile technology to launch a satellite into space .
envoys from six countries are meeting in germany on wednesday to plan a response .
-lrb- 04.02.2009 -rrb- north korea says it has reactivated its nuclear program pyongyang says it has reactivated its nuclear program to " bolster the deterrence for self-defence in every way to cope with the increasing military threats from the hostile forces . " -lrb- 25.04.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live life at gitmo dw-tv visits guantanamo bay for a closer look at the infamous detention camp watch the video learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan new web site check out deutsche welle 's new asia page in english .
dw asia online news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's newest media partner latin america take a multimedia journey discover the region and its people © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
us-russia arms control deal first step towards global disarmament -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 07.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de defense -pipe- 07.05.2009 us-russia arms control deal first step towards global disarmament großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : moscow and washington want to curb nuclear proliferation us and russian officials will begin to negotiate a deal to cut their nuclear weapons arsenals in the coming weeks .
if they succeed , it could convince other nuclear powers to follow suit . the goal is clear and shared by both countries .
russia and the us want to reduce their number of nuclear missiles and replace the old bilateral start arms reduction treaty , which will expire at the end of the year , with a new arms control pact .
a preliminary meeting between the two sides has been described by the russian foreign ministry as " constructive " and " businesslike , " increasing the expectations for a positive outcome .
" i think generally the chances for success are very good " , says oliver meier , international representative of the arms control association .
" both sides on the major issues are really not far apart .
they have the same ideas in mind in terms of overall reductions in warheads , " he added .
" they have the same preferences in terms of having a legally binding , verifiable treaty .
the problem is that the timetable is very challenging because they are aiming for an agreement in the next couple of months and that will be very tough . "
if , as expected , it takes longer to solve the remaining differences , such as whether to include stored warheads as russia wants or not include them as the us wants , the existing start treaty could simply be extended beyond its expiration date at the end of the year .
as an alternative , another similar treaty could be signed until a more ambitious arms deal is reached in a second round of talks .
different categories of nuclear powers bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : barack obama has a long-term vision of a nuclear weapon free world while the prospects to strike a deal with russia look positive , president barack obama has a much loftier vision which he announced in his speech in prague in april : a world free of nuclear weapons .
but could a new arms control agreement between the us and russia , which combined possess at least 90 percent of all nuclear weapons , really put that much pressure on other nuclear powers and launch a global trend towards nuclear disarmament ?
miles pomper , a senior research associate at the center for non-proliferation studies , cautions against unrealistic expectations of a russian-american arms deal on other nations with nuclear weapons .
" what it might do is within the non-proliferation treaty process it would convince other countries of the goodwill of the united states and russia to meet their commitments to make steps toward nuclear disarmament and by doing that those other countries could increase the pressure on the irans and north koreas -lrb- of this world -rrb- to comply with their non-proliferation commitments .
but it 's not a kind of direct correlation . "
the experts point out that it is important to consider that the countries possessing nuclear weapons ca n't simply be lumped together .
the first category of nations , consisting of the states recognized by the nuclear non-proliferation treaty , includes france , britain and china .
getting them involved in arms reduction negotiations would probably be easier than to approach the second group of countries , consisting of india , pakistan , israel and north korea , states that are not formally recognized by the non-proliferation treaty .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : iran and north korea are a risk to regional security , the west says of the official nuclear powers , britain and china tend to be open towards international nuclear disarmament while france has taken a more reluctant stance towards disarmament .
british prime minister gordon brown was speaking about a nuclear free world even before barack obama and china traditionally had voiced a preference for a nuclear weapons free world , the experts point out . it 's a whole different story with the group of unofficial nuclear states .
with them it 's all about regional security , says oliver meier .
" if you go talk about israel of course you have the problem of the middle east , you have the problem of iran and very much will depend on what progress is made in the middle east .
" india and pakistan , of course you have the situation in south asia , the rivalry between those states .
and north korea is anybody 's bet .
that is at the moment very difficult to predict what policy north korea is pursuing . "
political climate has changed bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some in nuclear-armed pakistan harbor hatred of the us and india while it is helpful to keep obama 's vision - a nuclear free world - in mind , it is important to focus on the concrete steps that have to be taken first by russia and the us .
to merely amend or extend the existing start treaty in a first round of negotiations will take time .
to hammer out a new deal with more aggressive cuts in nuclear weapons will require even more patience , says miles pomper .
" just those two negotiations might take all of obama 's first term , assuming there 's a second term .
so i think until you get those you ca n't really judge the third round and maybe bringing other countries into the negotiations . "
obama of course knows himself that the goal of a nuclear free world is a political marathon , not a sprint .
in his speech in prague , he admitted that this goal may not be reached in his lifetime .
still , the global political conditions for a long time have n't been as conducive to nuclear arms reductions as they are right now .
" we now have from a range of people and governments a list of proposals how to move forward towards that goal , " argues oliver meier .
" for the first time in many , many years we have that discussion being led by a range of political actors , but also by the public , who have not taken this goal serious before .
and of course to have the united states in the leadership role has changed the political dynamics a lot . "
author : michael knigge editor : robert mudge send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de obama calls for end to nuclear weapons in prague speech us president barack obama has announced ambitious plans to rid the world of nuclear weapons at a speech in prague .
yet his support for a controversial us missile shield in eastern europe could anger russia .
-lrb- 05.04.2009 -rrb- five security council powers , germany offer direct dialog with iran the five permanent members of the un security council and germany on tuesday offered direct dialogue with iran to solve the ongoing nuclear standoff with the islamic republic .
-lrb- 04.03.2009 -rrb- iran 's new missiles add to europe 's nuclear worries iran alarmed the international community this week by using newly-developed missile technology to launch a satellite into space .
envoys from six countries are meeting in germany on wednesday to plan a response .
-lrb- 04.02.2009 -rrb- north korea says it has reactivated its nuclear program pyongyang says it has reactivated its nuclear program to " bolster the deterrence for self-defence in every way to cope with the increasing military threats from the hostile forces . " -lrb- 25.04.2009 -rrb- 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
in depth focus on libya dw-world looks at the turmoil in libya : what it means for tripoli and the rest of the world .
cairo clashes cairo 's tahrir square is back in the headlines after violent clashes between protesters and police .
watch the video podcast series a german musician brings change with song and crowd funding .
download the report subscribe to the series on itunes past episodes international conference media representatives around the world gather in bonn to discuss human rights .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
iceland 's new government plans a bid for eu membership -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 24.09.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de european union -pipe- 07.05.2009 iceland 's new government plans a bid for eu membership großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : iceland wants to join the 27-member bloc iceland is preparing a bid for entry into the european union , just two weeks after the country 's new left-wing government was elected into power . the country ’ s prime minister johanna sigurdardottir announced on state television that she would present a parliamentary bill to authorize the start of membership talks with the european union .
" there will be a government resolution tabled -lrb- on eu talks -rrb- , " prime minister johanna sigurdardottir said .
she did not give a timeframe for when the bill would be put forward , but it ’ s expected that the draft could be introduced as early as next week when parliament convenes . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : johanna sigurdardottir says that eu membership is vital for iceland the move is a u-turn for the small northern atlantic island and it ’ s a development which would have been unthinkable only one year ago .
but then the financial crisis struck and the small country was turned upside down .
on the brink of bankruptcy long before the recession arrived in europe and the us , iceland in the summer of 2008 was already in serious trouble .
late last year the country made headlines as it veered toward bankruptcy .
before the sudden downturn , iceland had been thriving , it ’ s people enjoying a living standard among the highest in the world .
the country ’ s banks epitomized the global credit boom and the capital reykjavik became a hub of international finance .
banks expanded overseas and enjoyed exceptional growth .
on the eve of the credit crunch , iceland ’ s banks held foreign assets worth around ten times the country ’ s gdp .
in 2007 , gdp amounted to around $ 11 billion .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : iceland 's kaupthing bank is now run by the governemt iceland was therefore extremely vulnerable to any disruptions on the international financial markets and when the crisis eventually hit , the country went into a tailspin .
the icelandic crown virtually ceased trading and strict capital control had to be introduced to sustain even the import of vital goods such as food and medicine .
the country 's top banks were all nationalized and iceland needed a $ 10 billion rescue package from the international monetary fund to stay afloat .
painful reforms are underway but unemployment is still on the rise and the economic outlook remains gloomy .
public pressure and growing support for eu membership it was not long until the trouble on the balance sheets translated onto the streets .
in a wave of unrest , citizens expressed their anger and frustration at the government 's handling of affairs .
the country was then run by a coalition headed by the center-right independence party which had dominated icelandic politics for decades .
but after months of increasingly violent protests , the government collapsed early this year .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : popular protests brought down the old government in january 2009 new elections in april saw the social democrats emerge as the strongest party and their leader johanna sigurdardottir became the country 's new prime minister .
the 66-year old left little doubt that she wanted to steer her country closer toward the eu .
" it 's the only option we have to safeguard economic stability in the country , " she said after the elections .
the social democrats ' junior coalition partner , the left-greens , had previously opposed a move toward the european union over fears that reykjavik would have to surrender some of its independence to brussels .
however , many of iceland 's 320,000 inhabitants support the idea of joining the eu and ultimately adopting the euro currency .
a snap opinion poll for state television on wednesday showed that 61.2 percent were in favor of eu talks and only 29.6 percent against it . cg / ai , reuters / dpa send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de albania submits bid for european union membership albania has announced it will apply for membership to the 27-member european union .
but european leaders warn the country has a long road ahead of it before it 's ready to join the bloc .
-lrb- 28.04.2009 -rrb- iceland 's interim leftist government wins resounding election victory iceland 's interim leftist government won a resounding victory in this weekend 's general election as voters punished the conservatives they blame for the country 's economic meltdown seven months ago .
-lrb- 26.04.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inside europe listen live people natascha kampusch , the austrian who was kept prisoner from age 10 to 18 , publishes her autobigraphy .
listen to the report postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
postcard from europe : betancourt book sparks controversy in france postcard from europe : technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket are the gay games necessary ?
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
suspected war criminal loses us court appeal to stop deportation -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 26.03.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de world war ii -pipe- 07.05.2009 suspected war criminal loses us court appeal to stop deportation großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : john demjanjuk appears to be losing legal battle against deportation to germany a us supreme court judge has said he will not block the alleged nazi death camp guard john demjanjuk 's deportation to germany to face a war crimes trial . the 89-year-old demjanjuk claims he is too ill to fly to germany .
he is accused of being a guard at the sobibor extermination camp during world war ii and of being an accessory to the murder of some 29,000 jews .
demjanjuk , who is ukrainian born , denies the charges , saying he was captured by the nazis and then kept as a prisoner of war .
german authorities allege that demjanjuk , then 23 , worked from march-september 1943 as a guard in nazi-occupied poland at the sobibor concentration camp .
prosecutors in munich issued an arrest warrant for him in march .
the us supreme court move was seen as one of the last ways to prevent his being taken to germany .
however , under court rules , his lawyers may still submit applications for a stay to the court 's other eight justices .
the lower court had dismissed arguments by demjanjuk 's lawyer that transporting him to germany would pose an undue risk to his health .
it accepted us government assurances that he would receive sufficient medical care during the trip .
the us justice department said it would continue to work with the german government on demjanjuk 's removal , but a spokeswoman could not provide details about the timing of a possible deportation .
a german tribunal earlier on thursday ruled that the german government is under no duty to oppose demjanjuk 's expulsion from us soil to germany .
following world war ii , demjanjuk lived in germany as a refugee until 1952 when he changed his first name from ivan to john and moved to the united states .
demjanjuk was acquitted in 1993 by the israeli supreme court of charges that he worked at a different death camp , treblinka , saving him from the death sentence of a lower court in israel .
but when he returned to the us , he was stripped of his us citizenship . nrt , mh dpa / reuters / ap send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
transatlantic voices expert opinion no international cooperation has been declared dead or dying as often as the european union .
international conference media representatives around the world gather in bonn to discuss human rights .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
suspected war criminal loses us court appeal to stop deportation -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.12.2010 home news germany europe world from tierra del fuego to tijuana asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de world war ii -pipe- 07.05.2009 suspected war criminal loses us court appeal to stop deportation großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : john demjanjuk appears to be losing legal battle against deportation to germany a us supreme court judge has said he will not block the alleged nazi death camp guard john demjanjuk 's deportation to germany to face a war crimes trial . the 89-year-old demjanjuk claims he is too ill to fly to germany .
he is accused of being a guard at the sobibor extermination camp during world war ii and of being an accessory to the murder of some 29,000 jews .
demjanjuk , who is ukrainian born , denies the charges , saying he was captured by the nazis and then kept as a prisoner of war .
german authorities allege that demjanjuk , then 23 , worked from march-september 1943 as a guard in nazi-occupied poland at the sobibor concentration camp .
prosecutors in munich issued an arrest warrant for him in march .
the us supreme court move was seen as one of the last ways to prevent his being taken to germany .
however , under court rules , his lawyers may still submit applications for a stay to the court 's other eight justices .
the lower court had dismissed arguments by demjanjuk 's lawyer that transporting him to germany would pose an undue risk to his health .
it accepted us government assurances that he would receive sufficient medical care during the trip .
the us justice department said it would continue to work with the german government on demjanjuk 's removal , but a spokeswoman could not provide details about the timing of a possible deportation .
a german tribunal earlier on thursday ruled that the german government is under no duty to oppose demjanjuk 's expulsion from us soil to germany .
following world war ii , demjanjuk lived in germany as a refugee until 1952 when he changed his first name from ivan to john and moved to the united states .
demjanjuk was acquitted in 1993 by the israeli supreme court of charges that he worked at a different death camp , treblinka , saving him from the death sentence of a lower court in israel .
but when he returned to the us , he was stripped of his us citizenship . nrt , mh dpa / reuters / ap send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
haiti unrest haiti is on edge as angry protesters block streets and set fires to contest the election result .
watch the video learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan new web site check out deutsche welle 's new asia page in english .
dw asia online latin america take a multimedia journey discover the region and its people news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's newest media partner © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
suspected war criminal loses us court appeal to stop deportation -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 23.09.2010 home news germany europe world from tierra del fuego to tijuana asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de world war ii -pipe- 07.05.2009 suspected war criminal loses us court appeal to stop deportation großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : john demjanjuk appears to be losing legal battle against deportation to germany a us supreme court judge has said he will not block the alleged nazi death camp guard john demjanjuk 's deportation to germany to face a war crimes trial . the 89-year-old demjanjuk claims he is too ill to fly to germany .
he is accused of being a guard at the sobibor extermination camp during world war ii and of being an accessory to the murder of some 29,000 jews .
demjanjuk , who is ukrainian born , denies the charges , saying he was captured by the nazis and then kept as a prisoner of war .
german authorities allege that demjanjuk , then 23 , worked from march-september 1943 as a guard in nazi-occupied poland at the sobibor concentration camp .
prosecutors in munich issued an arrest warrant for him in march .
the us supreme court move was seen as one of the last ways to prevent his being taken to germany .
however , under court rules , his lawyers may still submit applications for a stay to the court 's other eight justices .
the lower court had dismissed arguments by demjanjuk 's lawyer that transporting him to germany would pose an undue risk to his health .
it accepted us government assurances that he would receive sufficient medical care during the trip .
the us justice department said it would continue to work with the german government on demjanjuk 's removal , but a spokeswoman could not provide details about the timing of a possible deportation .
a german tribunal earlier on thursday ruled that the german government is under no duty to oppose demjanjuk 's expulsion from us soil to germany .
following world war ii , demjanjuk lived in germany as a refugee until 1952 when he changed his first name from ivan to john and moved to the united states .
demjanjuk was acquitted in 1993 by the israeli supreme court of charges that he worked at a different death camp , treblinka , saving him from the death sentence of a lower court in israel .
but when he returned to the us , he was stripped of his us citizenship . nrt , mh dpa / reuters / ap send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live millennium goals the un wraps up its summit on its millenium development goals .
listen to the report focus : millennium development goals learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan new web site check out deutsche welle 's new asia page in english .
dw asia online news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's newest media partner latin america take a multimedia journey discover the region and its people © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
suspected war criminal loses us court appeal to stop deportation -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 26.10.2010 home news germany europe world from tierra del fuego to tijuana asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de world war ii -pipe- 07.05.2009 suspected war criminal loses us court appeal to stop deportation großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : john demjanjuk appears to be losing legal battle against deportation to germany a us supreme court judge has said he will not block the alleged nazi death camp guard john demjanjuk 's deportation to germany to face a war crimes trial . the 89-year-old demjanjuk claims he is too ill to fly to germany .
he is accused of being a guard at the sobibor extermination camp during world war ii and of being an accessory to the murder of some 29,000 jews .
demjanjuk , who is ukrainian born , denies the charges , saying he was captured by the nazis and then kept as a prisoner of war .
german authorities allege that demjanjuk , then 23 , worked from march-september 1943 as a guard in nazi-occupied poland at the sobibor concentration camp .
prosecutors in munich issued an arrest warrant for him in march .
the us supreme court move was seen as one of the last ways to prevent his being taken to germany .
however , under court rules , his lawyers may still submit applications for a stay to the court 's other eight justices .
the lower court had dismissed arguments by demjanjuk 's lawyer that transporting him to germany would pose an undue risk to his health .
it accepted us government assurances that he would receive sufficient medical care during the trip .
the us justice department said it would continue to work with the german government on demjanjuk 's removal , but a spokeswoman could not provide details about the timing of a possible deportation .
a german tribunal earlier on thursday ruled that the german government is under no duty to oppose demjanjuk 's expulsion from us soil to germany .
following world war ii , demjanjuk lived in germany as a refugee until 1952 when he changed his first name from ivan to john and moved to the united states .
demjanjuk was acquitted in 1993 by the israeli supreme court of charges that he worked at a different death camp , treblinka , saving him from the death sentence of a lower court in israel .
but when he returned to the us , he was stripped of his us citizenship . nrt , mh dpa / reuters / ap send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live made in germany we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live pulse listen live us elections us president obama 's democratic party faces an uphill battle in the upcoming midterm elections .
watch the video learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan new web site check out deutsche welle 's new asia page in english .
dw asia online news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's newest media partner latin america take a multimedia journey discover the region and its people © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
iceland 's new government plans a bid for eu membership -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 28.10.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de european union -pipe- 07.05.2009 iceland 's new government plans a bid for eu membership großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : iceland wants to join the 27-member bloc iceland is preparing a bid for entry into the european union , just two weeks after the country 's new left-wing government was elected into power . the country ’ s prime minister johanna sigurdardottir announced on state television that she would present a parliamentary bill to authorize the start of membership talks with the european union .
" there will be a government resolution tabled -lrb- on eu talks -rrb- , " prime minister johanna sigurdardottir said .
she did not give a timeframe for when the bill would be put forward , but it ’ s expected that the draft could be introduced as early as next week when parliament convenes . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : johanna sigurdardottir says that eu membership is vital for iceland the move is a u-turn for the small northern atlantic island and it ’ s a development which would have been unthinkable only one year ago .
but then the financial crisis struck and the small country was turned upside down .
on the brink of bankruptcy long before the recession arrived in europe and the us , iceland in the summer of 2008 was already in serious trouble .
late last year the country made headlines as it veered toward bankruptcy .
before the sudden downturn , iceland had been thriving , it ’ s people enjoying a living standard among the highest in the world .
the country ’ s banks epitomized the global credit boom and the capital reykjavik became a hub of international finance .
banks expanded overseas and enjoyed exceptional growth .
on the eve of the credit crunch , iceland ’ s banks held foreign assets worth around ten times the country ’ s gdp .
in 2007 , gdp amounted to around $ 11 billion .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : iceland 's kaupthing bank is now run by the governemt iceland was therefore extremely vulnerable to any disruptions on the international financial markets and when the crisis eventually hit , the country went into a tailspin .
the icelandic crown virtually ceased trading and strict capital control had to be introduced to sustain even the import of vital goods such as food and medicine .
the country 's top banks were all nationalized and iceland needed a $ 10 billion rescue package from the international monetary fund to stay afloat .
painful reforms are underway but unemployment is still on the rise and the economic outlook remains gloomy .
public pressure and growing support for eu membership it was not long until the trouble on the balance sheets translated onto the streets .
in a wave of unrest , citizens expressed their anger and frustration at the government 's handling of affairs .
the country was then run by a coalition headed by the center-right independence party which had dominated icelandic politics for decades .
but after months of increasingly violent protests , the government collapsed early this year .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : popular protests brought down the old government in january 2009 new elections in april saw the social democrats emerge as the strongest party and their leader johanna sigurdardottir became the country 's new prime minister .
the 66-year old left little doubt that she wanted to steer her country closer toward the eu .
" it 's the only option we have to safeguard economic stability in the country , " she said after the elections .
the social democrats ' junior coalition partner , the left-greens , had previously opposed a move toward the european union over fears that reykjavik would have to surrender some of its independence to brussels .
however , many of iceland 's 320,000 inhabitants support the idea of joining the eu and ultimately adopting the euro currency .
a snap opinion poll for state television on wednesday showed that 61.2 percent were in favor of eu talks and only 29.6 percent against it . cg / ai , reuters / dpa send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de albania submits bid for european union membership albania has announced it will apply for membership to the 27-member european union .
but european leaders warn the country has a long road ahead of it before it 's ready to join the bloc .
-lrb- 28.04.2009 -rrb- iceland 's interim leftist government wins resounding election victory iceland 's interim leftist government won a resounding victory in this weekend 's general election as voters punished the conservatives they blame for the country 's economic meltdown seven months ago .
-lrb- 26.04.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live europa aktuell we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live arts on the air listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
quo vadis bosnia ?
betancourt book sparks controversy in france technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
iceland 's new government plans a bid for eu membership -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.03.2011 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de european union -pipe- 07.05.2009 iceland 's new government plans a bid for eu membership großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : iceland wants to join the 27-member bloc iceland is preparing a bid for entry into the european union , just two weeks after the country 's new left-wing government was elected into power . the country ’ s prime minister johanna sigurdardottir announced on state television that she would present a parliamentary bill to authorize the start of membership talks with the european union .
" there will be a government resolution tabled -lrb- on eu talks -rrb- , " prime minister johanna sigurdardottir said .
she did not give a timeframe for when the bill would be put forward , but it ’ s expected that the draft could be introduced as early as next week when parliament convenes . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : johanna sigurdardottir says that eu membership is vital for iceland the move is a u-turn for the small northern atlantic island and it ’ s a development which would have been unthinkable only one year ago .
but then the financial crisis struck and the small country was turned upside down .
on the brink of bankruptcy long before the recession arrived in europe and the us , iceland in the summer of 2008 was already in serious trouble .
late last year the country made headlines as it veered toward bankruptcy .
before the sudden downturn , iceland had been thriving , it ’ s people enjoying a living standard among the highest in the world .
the country ’ s banks epitomized the global credit boom and the capital reykjavik became a hub of international finance .
banks expanded overseas and enjoyed exceptional growth .
on the eve of the credit crunch , iceland ’ s banks held foreign assets worth around ten times the country ’ s gdp .
in 2007 , gdp amounted to around $ 11 billion .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : iceland 's kaupthing bank is now run by the governemt iceland was therefore extremely vulnerable to any disruptions on the international financial markets and when the crisis eventually hit , the country went into a tailspin .
the icelandic crown virtually ceased trading and strict capital control had to be introduced to sustain even the import of vital goods such as food and medicine .
the country 's top banks were all nationalized and iceland needed a $ 10 billion rescue package from the international monetary fund to stay afloat .
painful reforms are underway but unemployment is still on the rise and the economic outlook remains gloomy .
public pressure and growing support for eu membership it was not long until the trouble on the balance sheets translated onto the streets .
in a wave of unrest , citizens expressed their anger and frustration at the government 's handling of affairs .
the country was then run by a coalition headed by the center-right independence party which had dominated icelandic politics for decades .
but after months of increasingly violent protests , the government collapsed early this year .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : popular protests brought down the old government in january 2009 new elections in april saw the social democrats emerge as the strongest party and their leader johanna sigurdardottir became the country 's new prime minister .
the 66-year old left little doubt that she wanted to steer her country closer toward the eu .
" it 's the only option we have to safeguard economic stability in the country , " she said after the elections .
the social democrats ' junior coalition partner , the left-greens , had previously opposed a move toward the european union over fears that reykjavik would have to surrender some of its independence to brussels .
however , many of iceland 's 320,000 inhabitants support the idea of joining the eu and ultimately adopting the euro currency .
a snap opinion poll for state television on wednesday showed that 61.2 percent were in favor of eu talks and only 29.6 percent against it . cg / ai , reuters / dpa send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de albania submits bid for european union membership albania has announced it will apply for membership to the 27-member european union .
but european leaders warn the country has a long road ahead of it before it 's ready to join the bloc .
-lrb- 28.04.2009 -rrb- iceland 's interim leftist government wins resounding election victory iceland 's interim leftist government won a resounding victory in this weekend 's general election as voters punished the conservatives they blame for the country 's economic meltdown seven months ago .
-lrb- 26.04.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live music this week listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
italians hard hit by plastic bag ban east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
iceland 's new government plans a bid for eu membership -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 30.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de european union -pipe- 07.05.2009 iceland 's new government plans a bid for eu membership großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : iceland wants to join the 27-member bloc iceland is preparing a bid for entry into the european union , just two weeks after the country 's new left-wing government was elected into power . the country ’ s prime minister johanna sigurdardottir announced on state television that she would present a parliamentary bill to authorize the start of membership talks with the european union .
" there will be a government resolution tabled -lrb- on eu talks -rrb- , " prime minister johanna sigurdardottir said .
she did not give a timeframe for when the bill would be put forward , but it ’ s expected that the draft could be introduced as early as next week when parliament convenes . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : johanna sigurdardottir says that eu membership is vital for iceland the move is a u-turn for the small northern atlantic island and it ’ s a development which would have been unthinkable only one year ago .
but then the financial crisis struck and the small country was turned upside down .
on the brink of bankruptcy long before the recession arrived in europe and the us , iceland in the summer of 2008 was already in serious trouble .
late last year the country made headlines as it veered toward bankruptcy .
before the sudden downturn , iceland had been thriving , it ’ s people enjoying a living standard among the highest in the world .
the country ’ s banks epitomized the global credit boom and the capital reykjavik became a hub of international finance .
banks expanded overseas and enjoyed exceptional growth .
on the eve of the credit crunch , iceland ’ s banks held foreign assets worth around ten times the country ’ s gdp .
in 2007 , gdp amounted to around $ 11 billion .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : iceland 's kaupthing bank is now run by the governemt iceland was therefore extremely vulnerable to any disruptions on the international financial markets and when the crisis eventually hit , the country went into a tailspin .
the icelandic crown virtually ceased trading and strict capital control had to be introduced to sustain even the import of vital goods such as food and medicine .
the country 's top banks were all nationalized and iceland needed a $ 10 billion rescue package from the international monetary fund to stay afloat .
painful reforms are underway but unemployment is still on the rise and the economic outlook remains gloomy .
public pressure and growing support for eu membership it was not long until the trouble on the balance sheets translated onto the streets .
in a wave of unrest , citizens expressed their anger and frustration at the government 's handling of affairs .
the country was then run by a coalition headed by the center-right independence party which had dominated icelandic politics for decades .
but after months of increasingly violent protests , the government collapsed early this year .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : popular protests brought down the old government in january 2009 new elections in april saw the social democrats emerge as the strongest party and their leader johanna sigurdardottir became the country 's new prime minister .
the 66-year old left little doubt that she wanted to steer her country closer toward the eu .
" it 's the only option we have to safeguard economic stability in the country , " she said after the elections .
the social democrats ' junior coalition partner , the left-greens , had previously opposed a move toward the european union over fears that reykjavik would have to surrender some of its independence to brussels .
however , many of iceland 's 320,000 inhabitants support the idea of joining the eu and ultimately adopting the euro currency .
a snap opinion poll for state television on wednesday showed that 61.2 percent were in favor of eu talks and only 29.6 percent against it . cg / ai , reuters / dpa send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de albania submits bid for european union membership albania has announced it will apply for membership to the 27-member european union .
but european leaders warn the country has a long road ahead of it before it 's ready to join the bloc .
-lrb- 28.04.2009 -rrb- iceland 's interim leftist government wins resounding election victory iceland 's interim leftist government won a resounding victory in this weekend 's general election as voters punished the conservatives they blame for the country 's economic meltdown seven months ago .
-lrb- 26.04.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live learning by ear listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
trans-atlantic relations transatlantic voices the disunity among eu member states renders eu foreign policy on libya virtually nonexistent .
foreign trade the golden easter bunny from lindt & sprüngli is looking to hop further afield .
watch the video new-look team austria 's soon-to-be vice-chancellor names an unprecendented number of women to his cabinet .
listen to the audio postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
french burqa ban fits secular ideals is berlusconi giving italy a bad name ?
a dubious record for belgium inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
iceland 's new government plans a bid for eu membership -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 19.12.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de european union -pipe- 07.05.2009 iceland 's new government plans a bid for eu membership großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : iceland wants to join the 27-member bloc iceland is preparing a bid for entry into the european union , just two weeks after the country 's new left-wing government was elected into power . the country ’ s prime minister johanna sigurdardottir announced on state television that she would present a parliamentary bill to authorize the start of membership talks with the european union .
" there will be a government resolution tabled -lrb- on eu talks -rrb- , " prime minister johanna sigurdardottir said .
she did not give a timeframe for when the bill would be put forward , but it ’ s expected that the draft could be introduced as early as next week when parliament convenes . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : johanna sigurdardottir says that eu membership is vital for iceland the move is a u-turn for the small northern atlantic island and it ’ s a development which would have been unthinkable only one year ago .
but then the financial crisis struck and the small country was turned upside down .
on the brink of bankruptcy long before the recession arrived in europe and the us , iceland in the summer of 2008 was already in serious trouble .
late last year the country made headlines as it veered toward bankruptcy .
before the sudden downturn , iceland had been thriving , it ’ s people enjoying a living standard among the highest in the world .
the country ’ s banks epitomized the global credit boom and the capital reykjavik became a hub of international finance .
banks expanded overseas and enjoyed exceptional growth .
on the eve of the credit crunch , iceland ’ s banks held foreign assets worth around ten times the country ’ s gdp .
in 2007 , gdp amounted to around $ 11 billion .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : iceland 's kaupthing bank is now run by the governemt iceland was therefore extremely vulnerable to any disruptions on the international financial markets and when the crisis eventually hit , the country went into a tailspin .
the icelandic crown virtually ceased trading and strict capital control had to be introduced to sustain even the import of vital goods such as food and medicine .
the country 's top banks were all nationalized and iceland needed a $ 10 billion rescue package from the international monetary fund to stay afloat .
painful reforms are underway but unemployment is still on the rise and the economic outlook remains gloomy .
public pressure and growing support for eu membership it was not long until the trouble on the balance sheets translated onto the streets .
in a wave of unrest , citizens expressed their anger and frustration at the government 's handling of affairs .
the country was then run by a coalition headed by the center-right independence party which had dominated icelandic politics for decades .
but after months of increasingly violent protests , the government collapsed early this year .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : popular protests brought down the old government in january 2009 new elections in april saw the social democrats emerge as the strongest party and their leader johanna sigurdardottir became the country 's new prime minister .
the 66-year old left little doubt that she wanted to steer her country closer toward the eu .
" it 's the only option we have to safeguard economic stability in the country , " she said after the elections .
the social democrats ' junior coalition partner , the left-greens , had previously opposed a move toward the european union over fears that reykjavik would have to surrender some of its independence to brussels .
however , many of iceland 's 320,000 inhabitants support the idea of joining the eu and ultimately adopting the euro currency .
a snap opinion poll for state television on wednesday showed that 61.2 percent were in favor of eu talks and only 29.6 percent against it . cg / ai , reuters / dpa send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de albania submits bid for european union membership albania has announced it will apply for membership to the 27-member european union .
but european leaders warn the country has a long road ahead of it before it 's ready to join the bloc .
-lrb- 28.04.2009 -rrb- iceland 's interim leftist government wins resounding election victory iceland 's interim leftist government won a resounding victory in this weekend 's general election as voters punished the conservatives they blame for the country 's economic meltdown seven months ago .
-lrb- 26.04.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live in-box feedback from around the world listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
postcard from europe : a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
iceland 's new government plans a bid for eu membership -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 14.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de european union -pipe- 07.05.2009 iceland 's new government plans a bid for eu membership großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : iceland wants to join the 27-member bloc iceland is preparing a bid for entry into the european union , just two weeks after the country 's new left-wing government was elected into power . the country ’ s prime minister johanna sigurdardottir announced on state television that she would present a parliamentary bill to authorize the start of membership talks with the european union .
" there will be a government resolution tabled -lrb- on eu talks -rrb- , " prime minister johanna sigurdardottir said .
she did not give a timeframe for when the bill would be put forward , but it ’ s expected that the draft could be introduced as early as next week when parliament convenes . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : johanna sigurdardottir says that eu membership is vital for iceland the move is a u-turn for the small northern atlantic island and it ’ s a development which would have been unthinkable only one year ago .
but then the financial crisis struck and the small country was turned upside down .
on the brink of bankruptcy long before the recession arrived in europe and the us , iceland in the summer of 2008 was already in serious trouble .
late last year the country made headlines as it veered toward bankruptcy .
before the sudden downturn , iceland had been thriving , it ’ s people enjoying a living standard among the highest in the world .
the country ’ s banks epitomized the global credit boom and the capital reykjavik became a hub of international finance .
banks expanded overseas and enjoyed exceptional growth .
on the eve of the credit crunch , iceland ’ s banks held foreign assets worth around ten times the country ’ s gdp .
in 2007 , gdp amounted to around $ 11 billion .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : iceland 's kaupthing bank is now run by the governemt iceland was therefore extremely vulnerable to any disruptions on the international financial markets and when the crisis eventually hit , the country went into a tailspin .
the icelandic crown virtually ceased trading and strict capital control had to be introduced to sustain even the import of vital goods such as food and medicine .
the country 's top banks were all nationalized and iceland needed a $ 10 billion rescue package from the international monetary fund to stay afloat .
painful reforms are underway but unemployment is still on the rise and the economic outlook remains gloomy .
public pressure and growing support for eu membership it was not long until the trouble on the balance sheets translated onto the streets .
in a wave of unrest , citizens expressed their anger and frustration at the government 's handling of affairs .
the country was then run by a coalition headed by the center-right independence party which had dominated icelandic politics for decades .
but after months of increasingly violent protests , the government collapsed early this year .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : popular protests brought down the old government in january 2009 new elections in april saw the social democrats emerge as the strongest party and their leader johanna sigurdardottir became the country 's new prime minister .
the 66-year old left little doubt that she wanted to steer her country closer toward the eu .
" it 's the only option we have to safeguard economic stability in the country , " she said after the elections .
the social democrats ' junior coalition partner , the left-greens , had previously opposed a move toward the european union over fears that reykjavik would have to surrender some of its independence to brussels .
however , many of iceland 's 320,000 inhabitants support the idea of joining the eu and ultimately adopting the euro currency .
a snap opinion poll for state television on wednesday showed that 61.2 percent were in favor of eu talks and only 29.6 percent against it . cg / ai , reuters / dpa send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de albania submits bid for european union membership albania has announced it will apply for membership to the 27-member european union .
but european leaders warn the country has a long road ahead of it before it 's ready to join the bloc .
-lrb- 28.04.2009 -rrb- iceland 's interim leftist government wins resounding election victory iceland 's interim leftist government won a resounding victory in this weekend 's general election as voters punished the conservatives they blame for the country 's economic meltdown seven months ago .
-lrb- 26.04.2009 -rrb- 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - news with in depth we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inspired minds listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
health a london conference raises $ 4.3 billion to vaccinate millions of poor children .
listen to the audio drugs a french socialist candidate pushes to legalize cannabis ahead of the country 's elections .
listen to the audio russia hundreds attend the funeral of a controversial russian colonel convicted of strangling a girl .
listen to the audio europe 's borders african refugees flee unrest and arrive on island of malta with hopes for a better life .
watch the video art schools for the russian minority in latvia could soon be forced to scrap bilingual lessons .
listen to the audio europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
iceland 's new government plans a bid for eu membership -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 23.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de european union -pipe- 07.05.2009 iceland 's new government plans a bid for eu membership großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : iceland wants to join the 27-member bloc iceland is preparing a bid for entry into the european union , just two weeks after the country 's new left-wing government was elected into power . the country ’ s prime minister johanna sigurdardottir announced on state television that she would present a parliamentary bill to authorize the start of membership talks with the european union .
" there will be a government resolution tabled -lrb- on eu talks -rrb- , " prime minister johanna sigurdardottir said .
she did not give a timeframe for when the bill would be put forward , but it ’ s expected that the draft could be introduced as early as next week when parliament convenes . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : johanna sigurdardottir says that eu membership is vital for iceland the move is a u-turn for the small northern atlantic island and it ’ s a development which would have been unthinkable only one year ago .
but then the financial crisis struck and the small country was turned upside down .
on the brink of bankruptcy long before the recession arrived in europe and the us , iceland in the summer of 2008 was already in serious trouble .
late last year the country made headlines as it veered toward bankruptcy .
before the sudden downturn , iceland had been thriving , it ’ s people enjoying a living standard among the highest in the world .
the country ’ s banks epitomized the global credit boom and the capital reykjavik became a hub of international finance .
banks expanded overseas and enjoyed exceptional growth .
on the eve of the credit crunch , iceland ’ s banks held foreign assets worth around ten times the country ’ s gdp .
in 2007 , gdp amounted to around $ 11 billion .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : iceland 's kaupthing bank is now run by the governemt iceland was therefore extremely vulnerable to any disruptions on the international financial markets and when the crisis eventually hit , the country went into a tailspin .
the icelandic crown virtually ceased trading and strict capital control had to be introduced to sustain even the import of vital goods such as food and medicine .
the country 's top banks were all nationalized and iceland needed a $ 10 billion rescue package from the international monetary fund to stay afloat .
painful reforms are underway but unemployment is still on the rise and the economic outlook remains gloomy .
public pressure and growing support for eu membership it was not long until the trouble on the balance sheets translated onto the streets .
in a wave of unrest , citizens expressed their anger and frustration at the government 's handling of affairs .
the country was then run by a coalition headed by the center-right independence party which had dominated icelandic politics for decades .
but after months of increasingly violent protests , the government collapsed early this year .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : popular protests brought down the old government in january 2009 new elections in april saw the social democrats emerge as the strongest party and their leader johanna sigurdardottir became the country 's new prime minister .
the 66-year old left little doubt that she wanted to steer her country closer toward the eu .
" it 's the only option we have to safeguard economic stability in the country , " she said after the elections .
the social democrats ' junior coalition partner , the left-greens , had previously opposed a move toward the european union over fears that reykjavik would have to surrender some of its independence to brussels .
however , many of iceland 's 320,000 inhabitants support the idea of joining the eu and ultimately adopting the euro currency .
a snap opinion poll for state television on wednesday showed that 61.2 percent were in favor of eu talks and only 29.6 percent against it . cg / ai , reuters / dpa send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de albania submits bid for european union membership albania has announced it will apply for membership to the 27-member european union .
but european leaders warn the country has a long road ahead of it before it 's ready to join the bloc .
-lrb- 28.04.2009 -rrb- iceland 's interim leftist government wins resounding election victory iceland 's interim leftist government won a resounding victory in this weekend 's general election as voters punished the conservatives they blame for the country 's economic meltdown seven months ago .
-lrb- 26.04.2009 -rrb- 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live people and politics - the political magazine we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
diplomacy lithuania and austria row after vienna police release an ex-kgb officer wanted for war crimes .
listen to the audio soccer turkish soccer officials meet in geneva after a match-fixing scandal gets dozens arrested .
listen to the audio education british parents are responding to government education cuts by setting up their own schools .
watch the video inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
the rhino mafia where to serve ?
soliders with dual citizenship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
georgian opposition clash with police as nato war games begin -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de georgia -pipe- 07.05.2009 georgian opposition clash with police as nato war games begin großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the nato military exercises that include computer training have flared tensions with georgia 's former soviet master , russia .
riot police in georgia clashed with anti-government officials during a late night rally , attempting to disrupt the kick off of nato 's controversial military exercises . it was the first major outbreak of violence in what 's now been a month of demonstrations against georgia 's president in the capital , tbilisi .
thousands of protestors converged on parliament to demand president mikhail saakashvili 's resignation , as well as the release of three jailed supporters .
georgia 's interior ministry spokesman shota utiashvili said police used truncheons to beat back protesters who were climbing over a fence surrounding the building .
nato exercises reignite georgia-russia tension the month-long nato training activities began on wednesday , and are part of a simulated crisis response operation and peacekeeping exercises .
they will involve at least 1,100 soldiers from 10 nato countries and six of the alliance 's " partner " countries .
the military exercises are being held at a georgian military base formerly used by the russian air force .
the operations have strained ties further between the ex-soviet georgia and its cold war-era rival .
russia fiercely objects to georgia hosting the operation , saying it threatens stability in the region .
earlier in the week , georgia accused russia of backing a brief military mutiny that allegedly included a plot to assassinate the president . cg / rm , reuters / afp / ap send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de nato denies georgia war-games agenda russian anger simmers as a month of partnership for peace -lrb- pfp -rrb- military exercises featuring nato states starts in georgia .
but nato claims that there is no agenda and that moscow was fully informed .
-lrb- 05.05.2009 -rrb- nato expels russian diplomats from brussels amid spying row nato has ordered the expulsion of two diplomats from russia 's nato mission in connection with a spy scandal - a move moscow calls a " provocation . " -lrb- 30.04.2009 -rrb- nato and russia resume formal ties after an eight-month freeze , nato and russia have once again taken up official relations .
but while a dialogue has resumed , disagreement between the two sides still exists .
-lrb- 29.04.2009 -rrb- 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
revolution calling women have played a crucial role in the arab uprisings , using the internet to spread the message .
watch the video security concerns there is a growing connection between security and natural resources .
listen to the interview podcast series life without the arts would be a lot less colorful , but guides like lukas help experience the arts .
download the podcast international conference media representatives around the world gather in bonn to discuss human rights .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
georgian opposition clash with police as nato war games begin -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 22.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de georgia -pipe- 07.05.2009 georgian opposition clash with police as nato war games begin großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the nato military exercises that include computer training have flared tensions with georgia 's former soviet master , russia .
riot police in georgia clashed with anti-government officials during a late night rally , attempting to disrupt the kick off of nato 's controversial military exercises . it was the first major outbreak of violence in what 's now been a month of demonstrations against georgia 's president in the capital , tbilisi .
thousands of protestors converged on parliament to demand president mikhail saakashvili 's resignation , as well as the release of three jailed supporters .
georgia 's interior ministry spokesman shota utiashvili said police used truncheons to beat back protesters who were climbing over a fence surrounding the building .
nato exercises reignite georgia-russia tension the month-long nato training activities began on wednesday , and are part of a simulated crisis response operation and peacekeeping exercises .
they will involve at least 1,100 soldiers from 10 nato countries and six of the alliance 's " partner " countries .
the military exercises are being held at a georgian military base formerly used by the russian air force .
the operations have strained ties further between the ex-soviet georgia and its cold war-era rival .
russia fiercely objects to georgia hosting the operation , saying it threatens stability in the region .
earlier in the week , georgia accused russia of backing a brief military mutiny that allegedly included a plot to assassinate the president . cg / rm , reuters / afp / ap send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de nato denies georgia war-games agenda russian anger simmers as a month of partnership for peace -lrb- pfp -rrb- military exercises featuring nato states starts in georgia .
but nato claims that there is no agenda and that moscow was fully informed .
-lrb- 05.05.2009 -rrb- nato expels russian diplomats from brussels amid spying row nato has ordered the expulsion of two diplomats from russia 's nato mission in connection with a spy scandal - a move moscow calls a " provocation . " -lrb- 30.04.2009 -rrb- nato and russia resume formal ties after an eight-month freeze , nato and russia have once again taken up official relations .
but while a dialogue has resumed , disagreement between the two sides still exists .
-lrb- 29.04.2009 -rrb- 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
in depth focus on libya dw-world looks at the turmoil in libya : what it means for tripoli and the rest of the world .
podcast series cornelius in liberia changes lives by talking about sex on the radio .
download the report subscribe to the series on itunes past episodes climate change check out deutsche welle 's multimedia coverage of people and projects combating climate change .
the global ideas page learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
georgian opposition clash with police as nato war games begin -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.10.2010 home news germany europe world from tierra del fuego to tijuana asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de georgia -pipe- 07.05.2009 georgian opposition clash with police as nato war games begin großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the nato military exercises that include computer training have flared tensions with georgia 's former soviet master , russia .
riot police in georgia clashed with anti-government officials during a late night rally , attempting to disrupt the kick off of nato 's controversial military exercises . it was the first major outbreak of violence in what 's now been a month of demonstrations against georgia 's president in the capital , tbilisi .
thousands of protestors converged on parliament to demand president mikhail saakashvili 's resignation , as well as the release of three jailed supporters .
georgia 's interior ministry spokesman shota utiashvili said police used truncheons to beat back protesters who were climbing over a fence surrounding the building .
nato exercises reignite georgia-russia tension the month-long nato training activities began on wednesday , and are part of a simulated crisis response operation and peacekeeping exercises .
they will involve at least 1,100 soldiers from 10 nato countries and six of the alliance 's " partner " countries .
the military exercises are being held at a georgian military base formerly used by the russian air force .
the operations have strained ties further between the ex-soviet georgia and its cold war-era rival .
russia fiercely objects to georgia hosting the operation , saying it threatens stability in the region .
earlier in the week , georgia accused russia of backing a brief military mutiny that allegedly included a plot to assassinate the president . cg / rm , reuters / afp / ap send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de nato denies georgia war-games agenda russian anger simmers as a month of partnership for peace -lrb- pfp -rrb- military exercises featuring nato states starts in georgia .
but nato claims that there is no agenda and that moscow was fully informed .
-lrb- 05.05.2009 -rrb- nato expels russian diplomats from brussels amid spying row nato has ordered the expulsion of two diplomats from russia 's nato mission in connection with a spy scandal - a move moscow calls a " provocation . " -lrb- 30.04.2009 -rrb- nato and russia resume formal ties after an eight-month freeze , nato and russia have once again taken up official relations .
but while a dialogue has resumed , disagreement between the two sides still exists .
-lrb- 29.04.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live pulse listen live us elections us president obama 's democratic party faces an uphill battle in the upcoming midterm elections .
watch the video learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan new web site check out deutsche welle 's new asia page in english .
dw asia online news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's newest media partner latin america take a multimedia journey discover the region and its people © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
georgian opposition clash with police as nato war games begin -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 14.12.2010 home news germany europe world from tierra del fuego to tijuana asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de georgia -pipe- 07.05.2009 georgian opposition clash with police as nato war games begin großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the nato military exercises that include computer training have flared tensions with georgia 's former soviet master , russia .
riot police in georgia clashed with anti-government officials during a late night rally , attempting to disrupt the kick off of nato 's controversial military exercises . it was the first major outbreak of violence in what 's now been a month of demonstrations against georgia 's president in the capital , tbilisi .
thousands of protestors converged on parliament to demand president mikhail saakashvili 's resignation , as well as the release of three jailed supporters .
georgia 's interior ministry spokesman shota utiashvili said police used truncheons to beat back protesters who were climbing over a fence surrounding the building .
nato exercises reignite georgia-russia tension the month-long nato training activities began on wednesday , and are part of a simulated crisis response operation and peacekeeping exercises .
they will involve at least 1,100 soldiers from 10 nato countries and six of the alliance 's " partner " countries .
the military exercises are being held at a georgian military base formerly used by the russian air force .
the operations have strained ties further between the ex-soviet georgia and its cold war-era rival .
russia fiercely objects to georgia hosting the operation , saying it threatens stability in the region .
earlier in the week , georgia accused russia of backing a brief military mutiny that allegedly included a plot to assassinate the president . cg / rm , reuters / afp / ap send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de nato denies georgia war-games agenda russian anger simmers as a month of partnership for peace -lrb- pfp -rrb- military exercises featuring nato states starts in georgia .
but nato claims that there is no agenda and that moscow was fully informed .
-lrb- 05.05.2009 -rrb- nato expels russian diplomats from brussels amid spying row nato has ordered the expulsion of two diplomats from russia 's nato mission in connection with a spy scandal - a move moscow calls a " provocation . " -lrb- 30.04.2009 -rrb- nato and russia resume formal ties after an eight-month freeze , nato and russia have once again taken up official relations .
but while a dialogue has resumed , disagreement between the two sides still exists .
-lrb- 29.04.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
haiti unrest haiti is on edge as angry protesters block streets and set fires to contest the election result .
watch the video learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan new web site check out deutsche welle 's new asia page in english .
dw asia online latin america take a multimedia journey discover the region and its people news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's newest media partner © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
georgian opposition clash with police as nato war games begin -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 26.03.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de georgia -pipe- 07.05.2009 georgian opposition clash with police as nato war games begin großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the nato military exercises that include computer training have flared tensions with georgia 's former soviet master , russia .
riot police in georgia clashed with anti-government officials during a late night rally , attempting to disrupt the kick off of nato 's controversial military exercises . it was the first major outbreak of violence in what 's now been a month of demonstrations against georgia 's president in the capital , tbilisi .
thousands of protestors converged on parliament to demand president mikhail saakashvili 's resignation , as well as the release of three jailed supporters .
georgia 's interior ministry spokesman shota utiashvili said police used truncheons to beat back protesters who were climbing over a fence surrounding the building .
nato exercises reignite georgia-russia tension the month-long nato training activities began on wednesday , and are part of a simulated crisis response operation and peacekeeping exercises .
they will involve at least 1,100 soldiers from 10 nato countries and six of the alliance 's " partner " countries .
the military exercises are being held at a georgian military base formerly used by the russian air force .
the operations have strained ties further between the ex-soviet georgia and its cold war-era rival .
russia fiercely objects to georgia hosting the operation , saying it threatens stability in the region .
earlier in the week , georgia accused russia of backing a brief military mutiny that allegedly included a plot to assassinate the president . cg / rm , reuters / afp / ap send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de nato denies georgia war-games agenda russian anger simmers as a month of partnership for peace -lrb- pfp -rrb- military exercises featuring nato states starts in georgia .
but nato claims that there is no agenda and that moscow was fully informed .
-lrb- 05.05.2009 -rrb- nato expels russian diplomats from brussels amid spying row nato has ordered the expulsion of two diplomats from russia 's nato mission in connection with a spy scandal - a move moscow calls a " provocation . " -lrb- 30.04.2009 -rrb- nato and russia resume formal ties after an eight-month freeze , nato and russia have once again taken up official relations .
but while a dialogue has resumed , disagreement between the two sides still exists .
-lrb- 29.04.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
transatlantic voices expert opinion no international cooperation has been declared dead or dying as often as the european union .
international conference media representatives around the world gather in bonn to discuss human rights .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
georgian opposition clash with police as nato war games begin -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 29.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de georgia -pipe- 07.05.2009 georgian opposition clash with police as nato war games begin großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the nato military exercises that include computer training have flared tensions with georgia 's former soviet master , russia .
riot police in georgia clashed with anti-government officials during a late night rally , attempting to disrupt the kick off of nato 's controversial military exercises . it was the first major outbreak of violence in what 's now been a month of demonstrations against georgia 's president in the capital , tbilisi .
thousands of protestors converged on parliament to demand president mikhail saakashvili 's resignation , as well as the release of three jailed supporters .
georgia 's interior ministry spokesman shota utiashvili said police used truncheons to beat back protesters who were climbing over a fence surrounding the building .
nato exercises reignite georgia-russia tension the month-long nato training activities began on wednesday , and are part of a simulated crisis response operation and peacekeeping exercises .
they will involve at least 1,100 soldiers from 10 nato countries and six of the alliance 's " partner " countries .
the military exercises are being held at a georgian military base formerly used by the russian air force .
the operations have strained ties further between the ex-soviet georgia and its cold war-era rival .
russia fiercely objects to georgia hosting the operation , saying it threatens stability in the region .
earlier in the week , georgia accused russia of backing a brief military mutiny that allegedly included a plot to assassinate the president . cg / rm , reuters / afp / ap send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de nato denies georgia war-games agenda russian anger simmers as a month of partnership for peace -lrb- pfp -rrb- military exercises featuring nato states starts in georgia .
but nato claims that there is no agenda and that moscow was fully informed .
-lrb- 05.05.2009 -rrb- nato expels russian diplomats from brussels amid spying row nato has ordered the expulsion of two diplomats from russia 's nato mission in connection with a spy scandal - a move moscow calls a " provocation . " -lrb- 30.04.2009 -rrb- nato and russia resume formal ties after an eight-month freeze , nato and russia have once again taken up official relations .
but while a dialogue has resumed , disagreement between the two sides still exists .
-lrb- 29.04.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
tornado terror america 's south is in shock following the havoc wreaked by a series of deadly tornadoes .
watch the video focus on syria rattling a regime in-depth coverage of the violent protests against the syrian government .
focus on libya libya 's uprising dw-world looks at the turmoil in libya : what it means for tripoli and the rest of the world .
podcast series a london teen helps integrate autistic adults into society .
download the report subscribe to the series on itunes past episodes international conference media representatives around the world gather in bonn to discuss human rights .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
georgian opposition clash with police as nato war games begin -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 21.09.2010 home news germany europe world from tierra del fuego to tijuana asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de georgia -pipe- 07.05.2009 georgian opposition clash with police as nato war games begin großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the nato military exercises that include computer training have flared tensions with georgia 's former soviet master , russia .
riot police in georgia clashed with anti-government officials during a late night rally , attempting to disrupt the kick off of nato 's controversial military exercises . it was the first major outbreak of violence in what 's now been a month of demonstrations against georgia 's president in the capital , tbilisi .
thousands of protestors converged on parliament to demand president mikhail saakashvili 's resignation , as well as the release of three jailed supporters .
georgia 's interior ministry spokesman shota utiashvili said police used truncheons to beat back protesters who were climbing over a fence surrounding the building .
nato exercises reignite georgia-russia tension the month-long nato training activities began on wednesday , and are part of a simulated crisis response operation and peacekeeping exercises .
they will involve at least 1,100 soldiers from 10 nato countries and six of the alliance 's " partner " countries .
the military exercises are being held at a georgian military base formerly used by the russian air force .
the operations have strained ties further between the ex-soviet georgia and its cold war-era rival .
russia fiercely objects to georgia hosting the operation , saying it threatens stability in the region .
earlier in the week , georgia accused russia of backing a brief military mutiny that allegedly included a plot to assassinate the president . cg / rm , reuters / afp / ap send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de nato denies georgia war-games agenda russian anger simmers as a month of partnership for peace -lrb- pfp -rrb- military exercises featuring nato states starts in georgia .
but nato claims that there is no agenda and that moscow was fully informed .
-lrb- 05.05.2009 -rrb- nato expels russian diplomats from brussels amid spying row nato has ordered the expulsion of two diplomats from russia 's nato mission in connection with a spy scandal - a move moscow calls a " provocation . " -lrb- 30.04.2009 -rrb- nato and russia resume formal ties after an eight-month freeze , nato and russia have once again taken up official relations .
but while a dialogue has resumed , disagreement between the two sides still exists .
-lrb- 29.04.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live spectrum listen live diplomatic row dw 's china correspondent on rising sino-japanese tensions following arrest of chinese trawlerman .
listen to the interview learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan new web site check out deutsche welle 's new asia page in english .
dw asia online news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's newest media partner latin america take a multimedia journey discover the region and its people © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
obama wins pledge from afghan , pakistani leaders to confront militants -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages dw-world.de deutsche welle about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search dw-world : extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.12.2009 home news world germany europe business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany map weather german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de diplomacy -pipe- 07.05.2009 obama wins pledge from afghan , pakistani leaders to confront militants großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : obama warned of more violence in pakistan and afghanistan at the three-way summit president barack obama won a fresh promise from the leaders of pakistan and afghanistan on wednesday to work together to defeat al qaeda , and vowed he would make " every effort " to avoid civilian deaths . afghanistan 's hamid karzai and pakistan 's asif ali zardari came to washington after heavy criticism of their efforts to combat a taliban resurgence in their countries .
after their talks obama said both men " fully appreciate the seriousness of the threat " posed by al qaeda and their allies .
" the road ahead will be difficult .
there will be more violence and there will be setbacks , " obama said , with karzai and zardari at his side in the grand foyer of the white house .
" but let me be clear - the united states has not only made a lasting commitment to defeat al qaeda but also to support the democratically elected sovereign governments of both pakistan and afghanistan .
that commitment will not waiver and that support will be sustained . "
the obama administration has sharply criticized both karzai and zardari in the past , questioning their commitment and capability to tackle the threat from al qaeda and the taliban .
civilian casualties caused by us military operations in both countries , including drone strikes inside pakistan , have infuriated many afghans and pakistanis and made it harder for both countries ' leaders to cooperate with the united states .
military action earlier this week is believed to have caused dozens of civilian deaths with regional lawmakers and the international committee of the red cross reporting that as many as 100 people may have died in an operation in the bala boluk district of farah province in western afghanistan .
" we deeply , deeply regret that loss , " us secretary of state hillary clinton said of the civilian deaths before meeting karzai and zardari .
later she called that meeting " in some ways a breakthrough " and said she was " very optimistic " the process was making a difference .
obama announced a new approach to the fight against al qaeda in both countries in late march , offering more aid but also more than 20,000 extra troops to afghanistan this year .
pakistan 's zardari , who has been under fierce criticism for his response to taliban militants who have made inroads in the swat and buner valleys this year , pleaded for support for his fledgling democracy .
" my democracy needs attention and needs nurturing , " zardari said .
" pakistani democracy will deliver , the terrorists will be defeated by our joint struggle .
me , my friend president karzai and the united states ... will stand shoulder to shoulder with the world to fight this cancer and this threat . "
the pakistan government recently launched a major military offensive following pressure from the us to stop the advance of extremists in the region .
the islamist taliban says the offensive violates a peace deal it made with islamabad , which allowed the introduction of shariah law in the swat valley in exchange for a ceasefire .
on wednesday , pakistani security forces attacked taliban fighters in the swat valley , killing at least 64 of them after the united states called on the government to show its commitment to fighting militancy .
but the growing taliban influence in north-western pakistan has raised international concerns over the stability of the nuclear-armed country .
meanwhile in berlin , pakistani defence minister chaudry ahmad mukhtar has met with his german counterpart franz josef jung and asked for international help .
mukhtar said pakistan did not have the capacity to fight what he described as a " guerrilla war " in the north-west of the country . nrt , nk dpa / reuters / ap send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de dw-world : obama to up pressure on , offer incentives to pakistan and afghanistan money for security - that 's the deal that us president barack obama is to offer his pakistani and afghan counterparts on wednesday .
a former german ambassador to pakistan talks us through a potentially historic meeting .
-lrb- 05.05.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic audio : pakistani defence minister visits germany video : us president barack obama unveils a new afghan war strategy feedback feedback : send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live discover germany - the tv travel guide we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live audio : music this week audio : hildegard knef - born december 28th 1925 audio : listen live learning by ear educational radio for africa externer link , ã  â ¶ ffnet in neuem fenster : radio for africa news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's newest media partner picture of the day © dw 2009 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
european central bank cuts rates to record low -pipe- nrs-import -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages dw-world.de deutsche welle unternehmen presse business & sales dw-akademie dw-store kontakt hilfe partner sitemap archiv search keywords search dw-world : erweiterte suche your link to germany wählen sie aus 30 sprachen wählen sie aus 30 sprachen wählen sie aus 30 sprachen english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu wählen sie aus 30 sprachen 05.12.2009 home news world germany europe business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany study in germany map weather german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de economy -pipe- 07.05.2009 european central bank cuts rates to record low großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : jean-claude trichet , the ecb president .
the european central bank has cut its main interest rate to a record low one percent .
the cut was the fourth this year by the frankfurt-based bank , and it may not be the last . ecb president jean-claude trichet announced the cut on thursday , saying the bank was planning to shore up financial market confidence and boost liquidity by extending the period over which the ecb lends funds to banks at fixed rates from 6 months to 12 months and purchasing bonds .
the quarter point rate cut was the fourth this year by the frankfurt-based bank , which sets monetary policy for countries that share the euro currency .
trichet said that inflationary pressures had diminished in the economic downturn , but that the euro-zone economy appeared to be stabilising .
" the latest economic data suggest tentative signs of a stabilisation at very low levels after a first quarter which was significantly weaker than expected , " he told the news conference after the bank 's decision .
" the world economy including the eurozone is still undergoing a severe downturn with the prospect of both external and domestic demand remaining very weak over 2009 before gradually recovering in the course of 2010 , " trichet said .
he also said inflation expectations were consistent with keeping it in line with the bank 's target of price growth at or just below 2 percent .
eurozone inflation is at a record low of 0.6 percent and although some economic data are showing signs of stabilisation , the european commission this week forecast the eurozone 's economy would shrink by 4.0 percent this year .
the ecb has cut rates from 4.25 percent since last october .
trichet indicated that thursday 's rate cut was not necessarily the last . ch / pfd , rtr / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de dw-world : eu agrees to boost aid to struggling member countries the european union has agreed to double the amount of a bailout fund to 50 billion euros -lrb- $ 67 billion -rrb- .
the fund was created to provide emergency loans to eastern eu countries hit hard by the financial crisis .
-lrb- 05.05.2009 -rrb- dw-world : japanese pm lauds swift german reaction to financial crisis japanese prime minister taro aso was in berlin on tuesday as part of a three-day trip to europe .
the global economic downturn was on aso 's mind as he met with german chancellor angela merkel .
-lrb- 05.05.2009 -rrb- dw-world : spring employment boost fails to materialize a much-hoped-for springtime jobs boost has failed to materialize , official german figures show .
-lrb- 30.04.2009 -rrb- feedback feedback : send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour picture of the day dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw-world : dw screensaver dw-world : social bookmarking dw-world : our rss feeds dw-world : dw widgets dw-world : integrated search externer link , ã  â ¶ ffnet in neuem fenster : dw on facebook externer link , ã  â ¶ ffnet in neuem fenster : newsletters externer link , ã  â ¶ ffnet in neuem fenster : netvibes.com the way you want it dw-world : mobile optimized for pdas externer link , ã  â ¶ ffnet in neuem fenster : newsletters news in your inbox externer link , ã  â ¶ ffnet in neuem fenster : audio / video podcasts © dw 2009 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
us-russia arms control deal first step towards global disarmament -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 07.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages dw-world.de deutsche welle about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search dw-world : extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 06.12.2009 home news world germany europe business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany study in germany map weather german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de defense -pipe- 07.05.2009 us-russia arms control deal first step towards global disarmament großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : moscow and washington want to curb nuclear proliferation us and russian officials will begin to negotiate a deal to cut their nuclear weapons arsenals in the coming weeks .
if they succeed , it could convince other nuclear powers to follow suit . the goal is clear and shared by both countries .
russia and the us want to reduce their number of nuclear missiles and replace the old bilateral start arms reduction treaty , which will expire at the end of the year , with a new arms control pact .
a preliminary meeting between the two sides has been described by the russian foreign ministry as " constructive " and " businesslike , " increasing the expectations for a positive outcome .
" i think generally the chances for success are very good " , says oliver meier , international representative of the arms control association .
" both sides on the major issues are really not far apart .
they have the same ideas in mind in terms of overall reductions in warheads , " he added .
" they have the same preferences in terms of having a legally binding , verifiable treaty .
the problem is that the timetable is very challenging because they are aiming for an agreement in the next couple of months and that will be very tough . "
if , as expected , it takes longer to solve the remaining differences , such as whether to include stored warheads as russia wants or not include them as the us wants , the existing start treaty could simply be extended beyond its expiration date at the end of the year .
as an alternative , another similar treaty could be signed until a more ambitious arms deal is reached in a second round of talks .
different categories of nuclear powers bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : barack obama has a long-term vision of a nuclear weapon free world while the prospects to strike a deal with russia look positive , president barack obama has a much loftier vision which he announced in his speech in prague in april : a world free of nuclear weapons .
but could a new arms control agreement between the us and russia , which combined possess at least 90 percent of all nuclear weapons , really put that much pressure on other nuclear powers and launch a global trend towards nuclear disarmament ?
miles pomper , a senior research associate at the center for non-proliferation studies , cautions against unrealistic expectations of a russian-american arms deal on other nations with nuclear weapons .
" what it might do is within the non-proliferation treaty process it would convince other countries of the goodwill of the united states and russia to meet their commitments to make steps toward nuclear disarmament and by doing that those other countries could increase the pressure on the irans and north koreas -lrb- of this world -rrb- to comply with their non-proliferation commitments .
but it 's not a kind of direct correlation . "
the experts point out that it is important to consider that the countries possessing nuclear weapons ca n't simply be lumped together .
the first category of nations , consisting of the states recognized by the nuclear non-proliferation treaty , includes france , britain and china .
getting them involved in arms reduction negotiations would probably be easier than to approach the second group of countries , consisting of india , pakistan , israel and north korea , states that are not formally recognized by the non-proliferation treaty .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : iran and north korea are a risk to regional security , the west says of the official nuclear powers , britain and china tend to be open towards international nuclear disarmament while france has taken a more reluctant stance towards disarmament .
british prime minister gordon brown was speaking about a nuclear free world even before barack obama and china traditionally had voiced a preference for a nuclear weapons free world , the experts point out . it 's a whole different story with the group of unofficial nuclear states .
with them it 's all about regional security , says oliver meier .
" if you go talk about israel of course you have the problem of the middle east , you have the problem of iran and very much will depend on what progress is made in the middle east .
" india and pakistan , of course you have the situation in south asia , the rivalry between those states .
and north korea is anybody 's bet .
that is at the moment very difficult to predict what policy north korea is pursuing . "
political climate has changed bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some in nuclear-armed pakistan harbor hatred of the us and india while it is helpful to keep obama 's vision - a nuclear free world - in mind , it is important to focus on the concrete steps that have to be taken first by russia and the us .
to merely amend or extend the existing start treaty in a first round of negotiations will take time .
to hammer out a new deal with more aggressive cuts in nuclear weapons will require even more patience , says miles pomper .
" just those two negotiations might take all of obama 's first term , assuming there 's a second term .
so i think until you get those you ca n't really judge the third round and maybe bringing other countries into the negotiations . "
obama of course knows himself that the goal of a nuclear free world is a political marathon , not a sprint .
in his speech in prague , he admitted that this goal may not be reached in his lifetime .
still , the global political conditions for a long time have n't been as conducive to nuclear arms reductions as they are right now .
" we now have from a range of people and governments a list of proposals how to move forward towards that goal , " argues oliver meier .
" for the first time in many , many years we have that discussion being led by a range of political actors , but also by the public , who have not taken this goal serious before .
and of course to have the united states in the leadership role has changed the political dynamics a lot . "
author : michael knigge editor : robert mudge send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de dw-world : obama calls for end to nuclear weapons in prague speech us president barack obama has announced ambitious plans to rid the world of nuclear weapons at a speech in prague .
yet his support for a controversial us missile shield in eastern europe could anger russia .
-lrb- 05.04.2009 -rrb- dw-world : five security council powers , germany offer direct dialog with iran the five permanent members of the un security council and germany on tuesday offered direct dialogue with iran to solve the ongoing nuclear standoff with the islamic republic .
-lrb- 04.03.2009 -rrb- dw-world : iran 's new missiles add to europe 's nuclear worries iran alarmed the international community this week by using newly-developed missile technology to launch a satellite into space .
envoys from six countries are meeting in germany on wednesday to plan a response .
-lrb- 04.02.2009 -rrb- dw-world : north korea says it has reactivated its nuclear program pyongyang says it has reactivated its nuclear program to " bolster the deterrence for self-defence in every way to cope with the increasing military threats from the hostile forces . " -lrb- 25.04.2009 -rrb- feedback feedback : send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - mit reporter we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live audio : radio d audio : audio : listen live learning by ear educational radio for africa externer link , ã  â ¶ ffnet in neuem fenster : radio for africa news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's newest media partner picture of the day © dw 2009 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
bbc news -pipe- business -pipe- recession driving trucks off road accessibility links low graphics skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help access keys help bbc news updated every minute of every day one-minute world news news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk business market data economy companies health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 06:21 gmt , thursday , 7 may 2009 07:21 uk recession driving trucks off road please turn on javascript .
media requires javascript to play .
advertisement figures due on thursday are expected to show a dramatic fall in the number of heavy goods vehicles on the uk 's roads .
the road haulage association says the sector is losing jobs more quickly than almost any other .
mark worthington reports .
see also firm drives down fuel costs -lrb- 01.35 -rrb- strike 's impact on haulage -lrb- 01.39 -rrb- story tools bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
e-mail this to a friend most popular video / audio kercher murder trial - verdict announced simulation of kercher murder house how feet reveal sexual attraction german police stations attacked vanishing glaciers imperil la paz editor 's choice prototype solar plane first ' hop ' vanishing glaciers imperil la paz challenging films at pan asia festival thailand balloon festival lifts off how feet reveal sexual attraction skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles alerts news feeds podcasts search term : explore the bbc home popular links strictly democracy live merlin a to f bbc iplayer cbbc cbeebies food h to l health & parenting history learning local & nations m to sc music news radio science & nature sp to w sport tv weather a whole lot more from the bbc back to start of navigation site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmix the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- business -pipe- recession driving trucks off road british broadcasting corporation home accessibility links mobile version skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help bbc news updated every minute of every day one-minute world news news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk business market data economy companies health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 06:21 gmt , thursday , 7 may 2009 07:21 uk recession driving trucks off road please turn on javascript .
media requires javascript to play .
advertisement figures due on thursday are expected to show a dramatic fall in the number of heavy goods vehicles on the uk 's roads .
the road haulage association says the sector is losing jobs more quickly than almost any other .
mark worthington reports .
see also firm drives down fuel costs -lrb- 01.35 -rrb- strike 's impact on haulage -lrb- 01.39 -rrb- story tools bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
e-mail this to a friend most popular video / audio flesh-eating ' aliens ' from deep ' the smoke is absolutely choking ' ' a catastrophe , no overstatement ' one-minute world news flood victim : ' we lost everything ' editor 's choice improvements to the bbc news website skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles widgets & alerts news feeds podcasts search term : bbc.co.uk navigation news sport weather tv radio more … a to f cbbc cbeebies food h to le health history learning lo to z nations & local music science & nature popular links top gear london 2012 full a-z of bbc sites back to start of navigation site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmx the bbc is not responsible for the content of external sites .
read more .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- business -pipe- recession driving trucks off road accessibility links low graphics skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help access keys help bbc news updated every minute of every day one-minute world news news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk business market data economy companies health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 06:21 gmt , thursday , 7 may 2009 07:21 uk recession driving trucks off road please turn on javascript .
media requires javascript to play .
advertisement figures due on thursday are expected to show a dramatic fall in the number of heavy goods vehicles on the uk 's roads .
the road haulage association says the sector is losing jobs more quickly than almost any other .
mark worthington reports .
see also firm drives down fuel costs -lrb- 01.35 -rrb- strike 's impact on haulage -lrb- 01.39 -rrb- story tools bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
e-mail this to a friend most popular video / audio one-minute world news when should children leave home ?
woman rescued after week under rubble children rescued from the rubble rare footage of crystal cave editor 's choice a right royal day out ' down under ' woman rescued after week under rubble new video of orphanage hit by quake baby born amid haiti 's ruins thoughts on obama 's first year in office skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles alerts news feeds podcasts search term : explore the bbc home popular links doctor who comedy extra eastenders a to f bbc iplayer cbbc cbeebies food h to l health & parenting history learning local & nations m to sc music news radio science & nature sp to w sport tv weather a whole lot more from the bbc back to start of navigation site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmx the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- entertainment -pipe- moyles catching up with sir terry british broadcasting corporation home accessibility links mobile version mobiles skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help access keys help bbc news updated every minute of every day one-minute world news news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk business health science & environment technology entertainment arts & culture also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 07:39 gmt , thursday , 7 may 2009 08:39 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version moyles catching up with sir terry moyles ' show recently featured a comic relief kilimanjaro climb bbc radio 1 presenter chris moyles has almost as many listeners as rival breakfast host sir terry wogan , new figures have revealed .
moyles notched up an audience of 7.7m people , compared with 7.78m for the veteran radio 2 host .
in the first three months of 2009 , sir terry 's audience slipped from 7.9m , while moyles increased from 7.3m.
radio industry body rajar also says that listening is at a higher level than any time in the past 10 years .
most popular station almost 46m people - more than 90 % of all uk adults - tuned in each week in the first quarter of this year .
a third listened via digital radio , the internet or digital television , and the number using mobile phones rose 13 % .
bbc radio 4 and bbc radio 5 live both saw audiences grow , while bbc radio 2 remained the uk 's most popular station .
this is radio 's highest audience since new recording methods were introduced 10 years ago by rajar -lrb- radio joint audience research -rrb- .
bbc radio 4 drew its largest audience since 2003 - 9.98m - in the first quarter of this year .
bbc radio 5 live , along with its digital sister service 5 live sports extra , pulled in 6.3m - its biggest audience for four years .
commercial radio 's audience also grew from 31.2m to 31.5m listeners a week , while bbc radio 2 held onto the overall top spot with 13.46m listeners .
last month , the bbc denied a report that moyles was being removed from the breakfast slot in a reshuffle later this year .
it pointed to the last set of rajar figures , saying he had " added more listeners " and " has a hugely successful show " .
bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
e-mail this to a friend printable version print sponsor see also today show boosts radio 4 figures 29 jan 09 -pipe- entertainment wogan still top morning radio dj 24 jul 08 -pipe- entertainment q & a : dab digital radio 11 feb 08 -pipe- business radio audience dips during summer 25 oct 07 -pipe- entertainment digital radio draws 12m listeners 16 aug 07 -pipe- entertainment related bbc links mark damazer 's blog related internet links rajar the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top entertainment stories del toro ' takes leave ' of hobbit shrek beats sex and the city film homer is ' greatest tv character ' most popular stories now shared read watched / listened e-mail error ends up on road sign mars starts using animal products the springwatch wild day out ...
russia publishes katyn archives us sculptor louise bourgeois dies most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened doubt cast on israel raid account ex-us vp al gore splits from wife duchess ' drinking ' in paper sting cage-fighter jailed for £ 53m raid judges shot dead at china court homer named greatest tv character del toro ' takes leave ' of hobbit why did german president resign ?
day in pictures senior al-qaeda leader ' killed ' most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened israel releases ' footage of flotilla raid ' pakistan lake threatens to burst african football shorts : the sex worker one-minute world news israeli army releases ' flotilla footage ' storm plagues obama 's memorial speech israeli navy storms gaza aid ship india 's off and on chinese romance doubt cast on israel raid account north korea 's version of the internet most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis horst , why ?
german president 's shock resignation a blow to merkel gomp / arts the woman who brought giant spiders to london day in pictures a selection of pictures from around the world most popular now most popular now -pipe- 71,643 people are reading stories on the site right now . " ; skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles widgets & alerts news feeds podcasts search term : bbc.co.uk navigation news sport weather tv radio more … a to f cbbc cbeebies food h to le health history learning lo to z nations & local music science & nature popular links world cup 2010 100 objects full a-z of bbc sites back to start of navigation site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmx the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- entertainment -pipe- moyles catching up with sir terry accessibility help skip to content skip to bbc.co.uk search low graphics help access keys help search term explore the bbc bbc news updated every minute of every day one-minute world news news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk business health science & environment technology entertainment arts & culture also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 07:39 gmt , thursday , 7 may 2009 08:39 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version moyles catching up with sir terry moyles ' show recently featured a comic relief kilimanjaro climb bbc radio 1 presenter chris moyles has almost as many listeners as rival breakfast host sir terry wogan , new figures have revealed .
moyles notched up an audience of 7.7m people , compared with 7.78m for the veteran radio 2 host .
in the first three months of 2009 , sir terry 's audience slipped from 7.9m , while moyles increased from 7.3m.
radio industry body rajar also says that listening is at a higher level than any time in the past 10 years .
most popular station almost 46m people - more than 90 % of all uk adults - tuned in each week in the first quarter of this year .
a third listened via digital radio , the internet or digital television , and the number using mobile phones rose 13 % .
bbc radio 4 and bbc radio 5 live both saw audiences grow , while bbc radio 2 remained the uk 's most popular station .
this is radio 's highest audience since new recording methods were introduced 10 years ago by rajar -lrb- radio joint audience research -rrb- .
bbc radio 4 drew its largest audience since 2003 - 9.98m - in the first quarter of this year .
bbc radio 5 live , along with its digital sister service 5 live sports extra , pulled in 6.3m - its biggest audience for four years .
commercial radio 's audience also grew from 31.2m to 31.5m listeners a week , while bbc radio 2 held onto the overall top spot with 13.46m listeners .
last month , the bbc denied a report that moyles was being removed from the breakfast slot in a reshuffle later this year .
it pointed to the last set of rajar figures , saying he had " added more listeners " and " has a hugely successful show " .
bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
e-mail this to a friend printable version print sponsor see also today show boosts radio 4 figures 29 jan 09 -pipe- entertainment wogan still top morning radio dj 24 jul 08 -pipe- entertainment q & a : dab digital radio 11 feb 08 -pipe- business radio audience dips during summer 25 oct 07 -pipe- entertainment digital radio draws 12m listeners 16 aug 07 -pipe- entertainment related bbc links mark damazer 's blog related internet links rajar the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top entertainment stories jay-z joins rihanna at london gig strokes voted album of the decade warhol story drawing set for sale most popular stories now shared read watched / listened earth ' heading for 6c ' of warming tokyo ' world 's best place to eat ' israeli settlement plan denounced husband held in severed hand case the queen 's speech in full most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened men survive weeks lost in pacific network sites ' need help buttons ' verbal war over egypt-algeria tie guilty plea in infamous us kidnap ancients ' had heart disease too ' trade focus for obama china talks israeli settlement plan denounced ' ex-nazi ' charged with 58 murders tokyo ' world 's best place to eat ' earth ' heading for 6c ' of warming most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened pakistan ' captures taliban bases ' crane splits home in half the queen 's speech in full norah jones on new album sound one-minute world news five minutes with : norah jones antarctic ice traps cruise ship somalia still top of corruption list quantum mechanics made -lrb- fairly -rrb- easy free public wi-fi scheme for town most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis tigers claw back ?
what now for tamil rebel riches and support worldwide ?
malawi 's miracle farm subsidies banished hunger , but can it last ?
in pictures prague marks 20th anniversary of the ' velvet revolution ' most popular now most popular now -pipe- 17,314 people are reading stories on the site right now .
skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles alerts news feeds podcasts explore the bbc home popular links strictly democracy live merlin bbc links a to f bbc iplayer cbbc cbeebies food bbc links h to l health history learning local & nations bbc links m to sc music news radio science & nature bbc links sp to w sport tv weather a whole lot more to top site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmix the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- entertainment -pipe- moyles catching up with sir terry british broadcasting corporation home accessibility links mobile version skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help bbc news updated every minute of every day one-minute world news news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk business health science & environment technology entertainment arts & culture also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 07:39 gmt , thursday , 7 may 2009 08:39 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version moyles catching up with sir terry moyles ' show recently featured a comic relief kilimanjaro climb bbc radio 1 presenter chris moyles has almost as many listeners as rival breakfast host sir terry wogan , new figures have revealed .
moyles notched up an audience of 7.7m people , compared with 7.78m for the veteran radio 2 host .
in the first three months of 2009 , sir terry 's audience slipped from 7.9m , while moyles increased from 7.3m.
radio industry body rajar also says that listening is at a higher level than any time in the past 10 years .
most popular station almost 46m people - more than 90 % of all uk adults - tuned in each week in the first quarter of this year .
a third listened via digital radio , the internet or digital television , and the number using mobile phones rose 13 % .
bbc radio 4 and bbc radio 5 live both saw audiences grow , while bbc radio 2 remained the uk 's most popular station .
this is radio 's highest audience since new recording methods were introduced 10 years ago by rajar -lrb- radio joint audience research -rrb- .
bbc radio 4 drew its largest audience since 2003 - 9.98m - in the first quarter of this year .
bbc radio 5 live , along with its digital sister service 5 live sports extra , pulled in 6.3m - its biggest audience for four years .
commercial radio 's audience also grew from 31.2m to 31.5m listeners a week , while bbc radio 2 held onto the overall top spot with 13.46m listeners .
last month , the bbc denied a report that moyles was being removed from the breakfast slot in a reshuffle later this year .
it pointed to the last set of rajar figures , saying he had " added more listeners " and " has a hugely successful show " .
bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
e-mail this to a friend printable version print sponsor see also today show boosts radio 4 figures 29 jan 09 -pipe- entertainment wogan still top morning radio dj 24 jul 08 -pipe- entertainment q & a : dab digital radio 11 feb 08 -pipe- business radio audience dips during summer 25 oct 07 -pipe- entertainment digital radio draws 12m listeners 16 aug 07 -pipe- entertainment related bbc links mark damazer 's blog related internet links rajar the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top entertainment stories u2 reschedule us and canada dates cheryl ' on the mend ' says simon cowell zsa zsa gabor taken to hospital most popular stories now shared read watched / listened the battle for berlin 's gardens your news , your pictures enola gay navigator has ' no regrets ' in pictures : finnish pursuits most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened world sauna event finalist dies robbie williams ' marries in la ' north korea ' holds southern boat ' duchess tries to avoid bankruptcy dozens killed in china landslides the battle for berlin 's gardens tributes paid to killed uk doctor no 10 rejects child milk cut idea blog reveals medic 's dedication rain adds to pakistan flood woes most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened close-up : swimming in berne 's fast-flowing city river dozens killed in landslides in china 's gansu province flesh-eating ' aliens ' from deep tornado destroys minnesota farmhouse one-minute world news new cabin crew put through their paces ' poo-powered ' car hits the road tom paulin reads from endpoint young muslim 's ' anti-terrorism ' camp power cuts cripple emirate of sharjah most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis planning an exit attacks by afghan soldiers pose nato problems sanction evasion ?
how iran has been registering ships in the isle of man cultural pride taiwan 's efforts to revive indigenous languages most popular now most popular now -pipe- 46,586 people are reading stories on the site right now . " ; skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles widgets & alerts news feeds podcasts search term : bbc.co.uk navigation news sport weather tv radio more … a to f cbbc cbeebies food h to le health history learning lo to z nations & local music science & nature popular links top gear london 2012 full a-z of bbc sites back to start of navigation site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmx the bbc is not responsible for the content of external sites .
read more .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- entertainment -pipe- moyles catching up with sir terry accessibility links low graphics skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help access keys help bbc news updated every minute of every day one-minute world news news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk business health science & environment technology entertainment arts & culture also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 07:39 gmt , thursday , 7 may 2009 08:39 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version moyles catching up with sir terry moyles ' show recently featured a comic relief kilimanjaro climb bbc radio 1 presenter chris moyles has almost as many listeners as rival breakfast host sir terry wogan , new figures have revealed .
moyles notched up an audience of 7.7m people , compared with 7.78m for the veteran radio 2 host .
in the first three months of 2009 , sir terry 's audience slipped from 7.9m , while moyles increased from 7.3m.
radio industry body rajar also says that listening is at a higher level than any time in the past 10 years .
most popular station almost 46m people - more than 90 % of all uk adults - tuned in each week in the first quarter of this year .
a third listened via digital radio , the internet or digital television , and the number using mobile phones rose 13 % .
bbc radio 4 and bbc radio 5 live both saw audiences grow , while bbc radio 2 remained the uk 's most popular station .
this is radio 's highest audience since new recording methods were introduced 10 years ago by rajar -lrb- radio joint audience research -rrb- .
bbc radio 4 drew its largest audience since 2003 - 9.98m - in the first quarter of this year .
bbc radio 5 live , along with its digital sister service 5 live sports extra , pulled in 6.3m - its biggest audience for four years .
commercial radio 's audience also grew from 31.2m to 31.5m listeners a week , while bbc radio 2 held onto the overall top spot with 13.46m listeners .
last month , the bbc denied a report that moyles was being removed from the breakfast slot in a reshuffle later this year .
it pointed to the last set of rajar figures , saying he had " added more listeners " and " has a hugely successful show " .
bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
e-mail this to a friend printable version print sponsor see also today show boosts radio 4 figures 29 jan 09 -pipe- entertainment wogan still top morning radio dj 24 jul 08 -pipe- entertainment q & a : dab digital radio 11 feb 08 -pipe- business radio audience dips during summer 25 oct 07 -pipe- entertainment digital radio draws 12m listeners 16 aug 07 -pipe- entertainment related bbc links mark damazer 's blog related internet links rajar the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top entertainment stories clooney film gathers awards pace 5 live sorry over rage swearing hallyday to sue over back surgery most popular stories now shared read watched / listened auschwitz death camp sign stolen fossil is breakthrough of 2009 deepest volcano caught on video uncertainty over copenhagen deal air france jet ' black box ' call most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened commuters hit by snow disruption dna frees us prisoner 35 years on auschwitz death camp sign stolen ' fried egg ' may be impact crater uncertainty over copenhagen deal f1 driver rescued from mountain weekly world news quiz mumbai accused says he was framed air france jet ' black box ' call deepest volcano caught on video most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened snow video from around the uk deepest undersea eruption ever filmed dubai motor show gets into gear japanese man marries virtual bride on the frontline during afghanistan surge hollywood deal after youtube post octopus snatches coconut and runs nicole kidman on nine fighting the flab french-style how to make pizza napolitana most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis afghan wishes locals go head to head with governor in bbc debate it 's quiz time !
what on earth does an octopus do with a coconut ? dot.life would you use twitter to say your child had drowned ?
most popular now most popular now -pipe- 88,900 people are reading stories on the site right now .
skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles alerts news feeds podcasts search term : explore the bbc home popular links strictly democracy live merlin a to f bbc iplayer cbbc cbeebies food h to l health & parenting history learning local & nations m to sc music news radio science & nature sp to w sport tv weather a whole lot more from the bbc back to start of navigation site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmix the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- entertainment -pipe- moyles catching up with sir terry british broadcasting corporation home accessibility links mobile version skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help bbc news updated every minute of every day one-minute world news news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk business health science & environment technology entertainment arts & culture also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 07:39 gmt , thursday , 7 may 2009 08:39 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version moyles catching up with sir terry moyles ' show recently featured a comic relief kilimanjaro climb bbc radio 1 presenter chris moyles has almost as many listeners as rival breakfast host sir terry wogan , new figures have revealed .
moyles notched up an audience of 7.7m people , compared with 7.78m for the veteran radio 2 host .
in the first three months of 2009 , sir terry 's audience slipped from 7.9m , while moyles increased from 7.3m.
radio industry body rajar also says that listening is at a higher level than any time in the past 10 years .
most popular station almost 46m people - more than 90 % of all uk adults - tuned in each week in the first quarter of this year .
a third listened via digital radio , the internet or digital television , and the number using mobile phones rose 13 % .
bbc radio 4 and bbc radio 5 live both saw audiences grow , while bbc radio 2 remained the uk 's most popular station .
this is radio 's highest audience since new recording methods were introduced 10 years ago by rajar -lrb- radio joint audience research -rrb- .
bbc radio 4 drew its largest audience since 2003 - 9.98m - in the first quarter of this year .
bbc radio 5 live , along with its digital sister service 5 live sports extra , pulled in 6.3m - its biggest audience for four years .
commercial radio 's audience also grew from 31.2m to 31.5m listeners a week , while bbc radio 2 held onto the overall top spot with 13.46m listeners .
last month , the bbc denied a report that moyles was being removed from the breakfast slot in a reshuffle later this year .
it pointed to the last set of rajar figures , saying he had " added more listeners " and " has a hugely successful show " .
bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
e-mail this to a friend printable version print sponsor see also today show boosts radio 4 figures 29 jan 09 -pipe- entertainment wogan still top morning radio dj 24 jul 08 -pipe- entertainment q & a : dab digital radio 11 feb 08 -pipe- business radio audience dips during summer 25 oct 07 -pipe- entertainment digital radio draws 12m listeners 16 aug 07 -pipe- entertainment related bbc links mark damazer 's blog related internet links rajar the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top entertainment stories u2 reschedule us and canada dates cheryl ' on the mend ' says simon cowell zsa zsa gabor taken to hospital most popular stories now shared read watched / listened diamonds hint at ' earliest life ' most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened live : chile mine rescue joy as chile miners reach surface porn studios close over hiv scare the big picture : lightning strike new nose for taliban victim aisha struggling to find love in latvia in pictures : first chile miners rescued china-brazil match ends in brawl china elders in free speech plea chile miners : lift to the surface most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened first chile miner rescued after 69 days first rescuer reaches mine 69 days : the miners ' long wait second chile miner 's euphoria at surface one-minute world news serbian fans arrested after euro qualifier match discovering a different side to mombasa ' we are miners , we are strong people ' anger and joy at liverpool fc case unbroken spirit amid ruins of gary most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis planning an exit attacks by afghan soldiers pose nato problems sanction evasion ?
how iran has been registering ships in the isle of man cultural pride taiwan 's efforts to revive indigenous languages most popular now most popular now -pipe- 126,157 people are reading stories on the site right now . " ; skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles widgets & alerts news feeds podcasts search term : bbc.co.uk navigation news sport weather travel tv radio more … a to f cbbc cbeebies food h to le health history learning lo to z nations & local music science & nature popular links merlin strictly full a-z of bbc sites back to start of navigation site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmx the bbc is not responsible for the content of external sites .
read more .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- entertainment -pipe- moyles catching up with sir terry british broadcasting corporation home accessibility links mobile version skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help bbc news updated every minute of every day one-minute world news news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk business health science & environment technology entertainment arts & culture also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 07:39 gmt , thursday , 7 may 2009 08:39 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version moyles catching up with sir terry moyles ' show recently featured a comic relief kilimanjaro climb bbc radio 1 presenter chris moyles has almost as many listeners as rival breakfast host sir terry wogan , new figures have revealed .
moyles notched up an audience of 7.7m people , compared with 7.78m for the veteran radio 2 host .
in the first three months of 2009 , sir terry 's audience slipped from 7.9m , while moyles increased from 7.3m.
radio industry body rajar also says that listening is at a higher level than any time in the past 10 years .
most popular station almost 46m people - more than 90 % of all uk adults - tuned in each week in the first quarter of this year .
a third listened via digital radio , the internet or digital television , and the number using mobile phones rose 13 % .
bbc radio 4 and bbc radio 5 live both saw audiences grow , while bbc radio 2 remained the uk 's most popular station .
this is radio 's highest audience since new recording methods were introduced 10 years ago by rajar -lrb- radio joint audience research -rrb- .
bbc radio 4 drew its largest audience since 2003 - 9.98m - in the first quarter of this year .
bbc radio 5 live , along with its digital sister service 5 live sports extra , pulled in 6.3m - its biggest audience for four years .
commercial radio 's audience also grew from 31.2m to 31.5m listeners a week , while bbc radio 2 held onto the overall top spot with 13.46m listeners .
last month , the bbc denied a report that moyles was being removed from the breakfast slot in a reshuffle later this year .
it pointed to the last set of rajar figures , saying he had " added more listeners " and " has a hugely successful show " .
bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
e-mail this to a friend printable version print sponsor see also today show boosts radio 4 figures 29 jan 09 -pipe- entertainment wogan still top morning radio dj 24 jul 08 -pipe- entertainment q & a : dab digital radio 11 feb 08 -pipe- business radio audience dips during summer 25 oct 07 -pipe- entertainment digital radio draws 12m listeners 16 aug 07 -pipe- entertainment related bbc links mark damazer 's blog related internet links rajar the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top entertainment stories u2 reschedule us and canada dates cheryl ' on the mend ' says simon cowell zsa zsa gabor taken to hospital most popular stories now shared read watched / listened the battle for berlin 's gardens country profile : brazil panoramic photo : sudan homecoming most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened turkey groom kills wedding guests robbie williams weds ayda field mexico police hold own commander eurosceptic swiss count their blessings flash floods hit central europe indonesia cleric in terror arrest computer boss quits in sex probe netanyahu faces flotilla inquiry hague test for campbell evidence blog reveals medic 's dedication most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened flesh-eating ' aliens ' from deep rain triggers landslides and floods in china ' dumpster dip ' cools new yorkers one-minute world news spanish bluebell ' invasion ' close-up : swimming in berne 's fast-flowing city river close-up : latvia 's love of singing iraq 's rare wild animal trade one-minute world news tornado destroys minnesota farmhouse most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis planning an exit attacks by afghan soldiers pose nato problems sanction evasion ?
how iran has been registering ships in the isle of man cultural pride taiwan 's efforts to revive indigenous languages most popular now most popular now -pipe- 18,929 people are reading stories on the site right now . " ; skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles widgets & alerts news feeds podcasts search term : bbc.co.uk navigation news sport weather tv radio more … a to f cbbc cbeebies food h to le health history learning lo to z nations & local music science & nature popular links top gear london 2012 full a-z of bbc sites back to start of navigation site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmx the bbc is not responsible for the content of external sites .
read more .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- entertainment -pipe- moyles catching up with sir terry accessibility links low graphics skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help access keys help bbc news updated every minute of every day one-minute world news news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk business health science & environment technology entertainment arts & culture also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 07:39 gmt , thursday , 7 may 2009 08:39 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version moyles catching up with sir terry moyles ' show recently featured a comic relief kilimanjaro climb bbc radio 1 presenter chris moyles has almost as many listeners as rival breakfast host sir terry wogan , new figures have revealed .
moyles notched up an audience of 7.7m people , compared with 7.78m for the veteran radio 2 host .
in the first three months of 2009 , sir terry 's audience slipped from 7.9m , while moyles increased from 7.3m.
radio industry body rajar also says that listening is at a higher level than any time in the past 10 years .
most popular station almost 46m people - more than 90 % of all uk adults - tuned in each week in the first quarter of this year .
a third listened via digital radio , the internet or digital television , and the number using mobile phones rose 13 % .
bbc radio 4 and bbc radio 5 live both saw audiences grow , while bbc radio 2 remained the uk 's most popular station .
this is radio 's highest audience since new recording methods were introduced 10 years ago by rajar -lrb- radio joint audience research -rrb- .
bbc radio 4 drew its largest audience since 2003 - 9.98m - in the first quarter of this year .
bbc radio 5 live , along with its digital sister service 5 live sports extra , pulled in 6.3m - its biggest audience for four years .
commercial radio 's audience also grew from 31.2m to 31.5m listeners a week , while bbc radio 2 held onto the overall top spot with 13.46m listeners .
last month , the bbc denied a report that moyles was being removed from the breakfast slot in a reshuffle later this year .
it pointed to the last set of rajar figures , saying he had " added more listeners " and " has a hugely successful show " .
bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
e-mail this to a friend printable version print sponsor see also today show boosts radio 4 figures 29 jan 09 -pipe- entertainment wogan still top morning radio dj 24 jul 08 -pipe- entertainment q & a : dab digital radio 11 feb 08 -pipe- business radio audience dips during summer 25 oct 07 -pipe- entertainment digital radio draws 12m listeners 16 aug 07 -pipe- entertainment related bbc links mark damazer 's blog related internet links rajar the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top entertainment stories u2 and jay-z record haiti track doctor who scoops two tv awards gibson : ' i survived humiliation ' most popular stories now shared read watched / listened trials spark hope of pill for ms air france may bar obese people how did quakers conquer the british sweet shop ?
starbucks sees its profits triple rare glimpse of the crystal cave most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened air france may bar obese people obama warns senate on healthcare virginia suspect ' hid explosives ' wildlife photo stripped of award mammals ' floated to madagascar ' starbucks sees its profits triple us diverts 4,000 troops to haiti man who attacked intruder freed how did quakers conquer the british sweet shop ?
trials spark hope of pill for ms most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened children rescued from the rubble baby is born amid haiti 's ruins rare footage of crystal cave one-minute world news haiti 's outdoor maternity ward what happens to haiti 's orphans ?
prince william proves a hit ' down under ' woman rescued after week under rubble india visa changes strangle business thoughts on obama 's first year in office most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis patronage politics philippine massacre exposes political underworld sights unseen training blind people to take photos graining it how sugar made tycoons out of a religious sect most popular now most popular now -pipe- 29,386 people are reading stories on the site right now .
skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles alerts news feeds podcasts search term : explore the bbc home popular links doctor who comedy extra eastenders a to f bbc iplayer cbbc cbeebies food h to l health & parenting history learning local & nations m to sc music news radio science & nature sp to w sport tv weather a whole lot more from the bbc back to start of navigation site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmx the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- entertainment -pipe- moyles catching up with sir terry bbc news / entertainment graphics version bbc sport home news front page -pipe- africa -pipe- americas -pipe- asia-pacific -pipe- europe -pipe- middle east -pipe- south asia -pipe- uk -pipe- business -pipe- health -pipe- science & environment -pipe- technology -pipe- entertainment -pipe- also in the news -pipe- have your say -pipe- entertainment contents : arts & culture 07:39 gmt , thursday , 7 may 2009 08:39 uk moyles catching up with sir terry bbc radio 1 presenter chris moyles has almost as many listeners as rival breakfast host sir terry wogan , new figures have revealed .
moyles notched up an audience of 7.7m people , compared with 7.78m for the veteran radio 2 host .
in the first three months of 2009 , sir terry 's audience slipped from 7.9m , while moyles increased from 7.3m.
radio industry body rajar also says that listening is at a higher level than any time in the past 10 years .
most popular station almost 46m people - more than 90 % of all uk adults - tuned in each week in the first quarter of this year .
a third listened via digital radio , the internet or digital television , and the number using mobile phones rose 13 % .
bbc radio 4 and bbc radio 5 live both saw audiences grow , while bbc radio 2 remained the uk 's most popular station .
this is radio 's highest audience since new recording methods were introduced 10 years ago by rajar -lrb- radio joint audience research -rrb- .
bbc radio 4 drew its largest audience since 2003 - 9.98m - in the first quarter of this year .
bbc radio 5 live , along with its digital sister service 5 live sports extra , pulled in 6.3m - its biggest audience for four years .
commercial radio 's audience also grew from 31.2m to 31.5m listeners a week , while bbc radio 2 held onto the overall top spot with 13.46m listeners .
last month , the bbc denied a report that moyles was being removed from the breakfast slot in a reshuffle later this year .
it pointed to the last set of rajar figures , saying he had " added more listeners " and " has a hugely successful show " .
e-mail this to a friend related to this story : today show boosts radio 4 figures -lrb- 29 jan 09 -pipe- entertainment -rrb- wogan still top morning radio dj -lrb- 24 jul 08 -pipe- entertainment -rrb- q & a : dab digital radio -lrb- 11 feb 08 -pipe- business -rrb- radio audience dips during summer -lrb- 25 oct 07 -pipe- entertainment -rrb- digital radio draws 12m listeners -lrb- 16 aug 07 -pipe- entertainment -rrb- related internet links rajar mark damazer 's blog the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites search bbc news : news front page -pipe- africa -pipe- americas -pipe- asia-pacific -pipe- europe -pipe- middle east -pipe- south asia -pipe- uk -pipe- business -pipe- health -pipe- science & environment -pipe- technology -pipe- entertainment -pipe- also in the news -pipe- have your say -pipe- entertainment contents : arts & culture newswatch -pipe- notes -pipe- contact us -pipe- about bbc news -pipe- profiles -pipe- history ^ back to top -pipe- bbc sport home -pipe- bbc homepage -pipe- contact us -pipe- help -pipe- ©
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- england -pipe- south yorkshire -pipe- station ticket checks spark row bbc news / south yorkshire graphics version bbc sport home news front page -pipe- africa -pipe- americas -pipe- asia-pacific -pipe- europe -pipe- middle east -pipe- south asia -pipe- uk -pipe- business -pipe- health -pipe- science & environment -pipe- technology -pipe- entertainment -pipe- also in the news -pipe- have your say -pipe- uk contents : england -pipe- northern ireland -pipe- scotland -pipe- wales -pipe- uk politics -pipe- education -pipe- magazine 08:01 gmt , thursday , 7 may 2009 09:01 uk station ticket checks spark row council leaders in sheffield have hit out at a train company for causing chaos at the city 's railway station by introducing " human ticket barriers " .
on wednesday commuters faced delays when staff were posted at exits to check tickets and access was blocked to a footbridge out of the station .
east midlands trains said it introduced the measures because of delays to its plans for automatic ticket barriers .
a city council spokesman said it had been give no notice of the new checks .
the row is the latest twist in a long-running dispute over plans by east midlands trains to introduce ticket barriers to cut down on fare-dodging and increase security at the station .
' utterly disgraceful ' opposition to the plan has focused on the company 's intention to close the footbridge which links homes behind the station to the city centre .
city council leader paul scriven said wednesday 's ticket-checking by staff came without any warning .
he said : " this is utterly disgraceful and east midlands trains should be ashamed of how they have conducted themselves in this matter .
" it is a dispute that they clearly think they can not win so have found another way , by using real people to act as barriers , until they can put their plans in place .
" by doing this they have effectively cut our city in half . "
he said the council was told of the plans in a letter from east midlands trains received on wednesday morning .
in the letter , the train company said : " our business plans assumed the gates would be installed from spring this year , and consequently without the gates we need to find another way to fill the gap .
" for that reason , and with regret , from this morning we have therefore started to conduct a rolling programme of revenue protection checks at each end of the station , using our staff . "
the company said automatic ticket gates were the most effective way of preventing fare dodging , " something that is critical to our business during the current economic downturn " .
e-mail this to a friend related to this story : call to stop rail ticket barrier -lrb- 04 mar 09 -pipe- south yorkshire -rrb- opposition to ticket barrier plan -lrb- 27 feb 09 -pipe- south yorkshire -rrb- ticket barrier plan for station -lrb- 07 nov 08 -pipe- tyne -rrb- barriers return to snare dodgers -lrb- 07 mar 08 -pipe- england -rrb- related internet links east midlands trains sheffield city council residents against station closure sheffield station row - have your say the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites search bbc news : news front page -pipe- africa -pipe- americas -pipe- asia-pacific -pipe- europe -pipe- middle east -pipe- south asia -pipe- uk -pipe- business -pipe- health -pipe- science & environment -pipe- technology -pipe- entertainment -pipe- also in the news -pipe- have your say -pipe- uk contents : england -pipe- northern ireland -pipe- scotland -pipe- wales -pipe- uk politics -pipe- education -pipe- magazine newswatch -pipe- notes -pipe- contact us -pipe- about bbc news -pipe- profiles -pipe- history ^ back to top -pipe- bbc sport home -pipe- bbc homepage -pipe- contact us -pipe- help -pipe- ©
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- england -pipe- south yorkshire -pipe- station ticket checks spark row accessibility links low graphics skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help access keys help bbc news updated every minute of every day bbc news channel news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 08:01 gmt , thursday , 7 may 2009 09:01 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version station ticket checks spark row residents fear the ticket barrier plans will cut them off from the city council leaders in sheffield have hit out at a train company for causing chaos at the city 's railway station by introducing " human ticket barriers " .
on wednesday commuters faced delays when staff were posted at exits to check tickets and access was blocked to a footbridge out of the station .
east midlands trains said it introduced the measures because of delays to its plans for automatic ticket barriers .
a city council spokesman said it had been give no notice of the new checks .
the row is the latest twist in a long-running dispute over plans by east midlands trains to introduce ticket barriers to cut down on fare-dodging and increase security at the station .
' utterly disgraceful ' opposition to the plan has focused on the company 's intention to close the footbridge which links homes behind the station to the city centre .
city council leader paul scriven said wednesday 's ticket-checking by staff came without any warning .
he said : " this is utterly disgraceful and east midlands trains should be ashamed of how they have conducted themselves in this matter .
" it is a dispute that they clearly think they can not win so have found another way , by using real people to act as barriers , until they can put their plans in place .
" by doing this they have effectively cut our city in half . "
he said the council was told of the plans in a letter from east midlands trains received on wednesday morning .
in the letter , the train company said : " our business plans assumed the gates would be installed from spring this year , and consequently without the gates we need to find another way to fill the gap .
" for that reason , and with regret , from this morning we have therefore started to conduct a rolling programme of revenue protection checks at each end of the station , using our staff . "
the company said automatic ticket gates were the most effective way of preventing fare dodging , " something that is critical to our business during the current economic downturn " .
bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
e-mail this to a friend printable version print sponsor bbc south yorkshire sport , travel , weather , things to do , features and much more see also call to stop rail ticket barrier 04 mar 09 -pipe- south yorkshire opposition to ticket barrier plan 27 feb 09 -pipe- south yorkshire ticket barrier plan for station 07 nov 08 -pipe- tyne barriers return to snare dodgers 07 mar 08 -pipe- england related bbc links sheffield station row - have your say related internet links east midlands trains sheffield city council residents against station closure the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top south yorkshire stories new nuclear facilities announced action planned for child services miners ' lawyers lose ban appeal most popular stories now shared read watched / listened pompeii joins google street view nepal cabinet to meet on everest feeding birds ' changes evolution ' an animated journey through the earth 's climate history serbia ' making tribunal progress ' most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened taliban detainee ' met bin laden ' guinea 's leader ' wounded by aide ' us veteran , 108 , storms congress sex abuser ' too fat for prison ' norway pair fail in death appeal weekly world news quiz pompeii joins google street view an animated journey through the earth 's climate history somalia suicide attack condemned nepal cabinet to meet on everest most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened knox : do not brand me an assassin one-minute world news scientists hail robotic hand ' breakthrough ' does this man know where bin laden is ?
british library 's ' robot ' system unveiled marilyn ' marijuana ' film shown argentina chair throwing outburst taliban commander warns us inside south africa 's world cup final stadium stars at ' nine ' film premiere in london most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis eyewitness bbc reporter 's terror when somali bomber struck stairs to heaven exquisite frescoes by ' christ 's steps ' brought to life it 's quiz time !
where did marilyn monroe go a little potty ?
most popular now most popular now -pipe- 18,543 people are reading stories on the site right now .
skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles alerts news feeds podcasts search term : explore the bbc home popular links strictly democracy live merlin a to f bbc iplayer cbbc cbeebies food h to l health & parenting history learning local & nations m to sc music news radio science & nature sp to w sport tv weather a whole lot more from the bbc back to start of navigation site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmix the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- england -pipe- south yorkshire -pipe- station ticket checks spark row british broadcasting corporation home accessibility links mobile version skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help bbc news updated every minute of every day bbc news channel news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 08:01 gmt , thursday , 7 may 2009 09:01 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version station ticket checks spark row residents fear the ticket barrier plans will cut them off from the city council leaders in sheffield have hit out at a train company for causing chaos at the city 's railway station by introducing " human ticket barriers " .
on wednesday commuters faced delays when staff were posted at exits to check tickets and access was blocked to a footbridge out of the station .
east midlands trains said it introduced the measures because of delays to its plans for automatic ticket barriers .
a city council spokesman said it had been give no notice of the new checks .
the row is the latest twist in a long-running dispute over plans by east midlands trains to introduce ticket barriers to cut down on fare-dodging and increase security at the station .
' utterly disgraceful ' opposition to the plan has focused on the company 's intention to close the footbridge which links homes behind the station to the city centre .
city council leader paul scriven said wednesday 's ticket-checking by staff came without any warning .
he said : " this is utterly disgraceful and east midlands trains should be ashamed of how they have conducted themselves in this matter .
" it is a dispute that they clearly think they can not win so have found another way , by using real people to act as barriers , until they can put their plans in place .
" by doing this they have effectively cut our city in half . "
he said the council was told of the plans in a letter from east midlands trains received on wednesday morning .
in the letter , the train company said : " our business plans assumed the gates would be installed from spring this year , and consequently without the gates we need to find another way to fill the gap .
" for that reason , and with regret , from this morning we have therefore started to conduct a rolling programme of revenue protection checks at each end of the station , using our staff . "
the company said automatic ticket gates were the most effective way of preventing fare dodging , " something that is critical to our business during the current economic downturn " .
bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
e-mail this to a friend printable version print sponsor bbc south yorkshire sport , travel , weather , things to do , features and much more see also call to stop rail ticket barrier 04 mar 09 -pipe- south yorkshire opposition to ticket barrier plan 27 feb 09 -pipe- south yorkshire ticket barrier plan for station 07 nov 08 -pipe- tyne barriers return to snare dodgers 07 mar 08 -pipe- england related bbc links sheffield station row - have your say related internet links east midlands trains sheffield city council residents against station closure the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top south yorkshire stories police bikers stage ' off-road ' op gp is struck off medical register man , 22 , killed in car collision most popular stories now shared read watched / listened most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened taliban targets : women , children , foreigners ' jarhead ' bear gets out of a jam celebrations as princess turns 60 shooting halts women baseball cup pakistan says 20m hit by floods nairobi bikers improve their own slum lebanon ' kills militant leader ' obama plea for gulf coast tourism diana dors sports car to be sold four killed in ny state shooting most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened cctv of ' air steward 's emergency exit ' one-minute world news new york ' puckers-up for peace ' how to get a grip on your inbox nudes pose at irish castle king of bollywood immortalised rescues amid china flood chaos the greenest music festival ever ?
china landslide death toll jumps life on the edge : korogocho 's biker boys most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis planning an exit attacks by afghan soldiers pose nato problems sanction evasion ?
how iran has been registering ships in the isle of man cultural pride taiwan 's efforts to revive indigenous languages most popular now most popular now -pipe- 19,829 people are reading stories on the site right now . " ; skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles widgets & alerts news feeds podcasts search term : bbc.co.uk navigation news sport weather tv radio more … a to f cbbc cbeebies food h to le health history learning lo to z nations & local music science & nature popular links top gear london 2012 full a-z of bbc sites back to start of navigation site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmx the bbc is not responsible for the content of external sites .
read more .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- england -pipe- south yorkshire -pipe- station ticket checks spark row british broadcasting corporation home accessibility links mobile version skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help bbc news updated every minute of every day bbc news channel news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 08:01 gmt , thursday , 7 may 2009 09:01 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version station ticket checks spark row residents fear the ticket barrier plans will cut them off from the city council leaders in sheffield have hit out at a train company for causing chaos at the city 's railway station by introducing " human ticket barriers " .
on wednesday commuters faced delays when staff were posted at exits to check tickets and access was blocked to a footbridge out of the station .
east midlands trains said it introduced the measures because of delays to its plans for automatic ticket barriers .
a city council spokesman said it had been give no notice of the new checks .
the row is the latest twist in a long-running dispute over plans by east midlands trains to introduce ticket barriers to cut down on fare-dodging and increase security at the station .
' utterly disgraceful ' opposition to the plan has focused on the company 's intention to close the footbridge which links homes behind the station to the city centre .
city council leader paul scriven said wednesday 's ticket-checking by staff came without any warning .
he said : " this is utterly disgraceful and east midlands trains should be ashamed of how they have conducted themselves in this matter .
" it is a dispute that they clearly think they can not win so have found another way , by using real people to act as barriers , until they can put their plans in place .
" by doing this they have effectively cut our city in half . "
he said the council was told of the plans in a letter from east midlands trains received on wednesday morning .
in the letter , the train company said : " our business plans assumed the gates would be installed from spring this year , and consequently without the gates we need to find another way to fill the gap .
" for that reason , and with regret , from this morning we have therefore started to conduct a rolling programme of revenue protection checks at each end of the station , using our staff . "
the company said automatic ticket gates were the most effective way of preventing fare dodging , " something that is critical to our business during the current economic downturn " .
bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
e-mail this to a friend printable version print sponsor bbc south yorkshire sport , travel , weather , things to do , features and much more see also call to stop rail ticket barrier 04 mar 09 -pipe- south yorkshire opposition to ticket barrier plan 27 feb 09 -pipe- south yorkshire ticket barrier plan for station 07 nov 08 -pipe- tyne barriers return to snare dodgers 07 mar 08 -pipe- england related bbc links sheffield station row - have your say related internet links east midlands trains sheffield city council residents against station closure the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top south yorkshire stories union calls off supertram strike charges over barber 's shop attack train company closes buffet cars most popular stories now shared read watched / listened misspelt road signs : your photos most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened misspelt road signs : your photos man grows pea plant inside lung dying girl photographs criticised pakistan flood desperation grows russia ' has missiles ' in abkhazia bin laden chef gets jail sentence relic of ' original earth ' exposed why do we all use qwerty keyboards ?
n korea world cup ' abuse ' probed lindsay lohan judge steps aside most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened saudi women photograph their world women dice with death on m6 woman starts fight over chicken nuggets ' reckless ' air steward bailed inside obama 's favourite burger joint an uncertain future for iraq 's sunni militia un launches pakistan floods appeal britain 's ' oldest house ' discovered ' gadget ' gun makers jailed ' a village slowly drowning ' most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis planning an exit attacks by afghan soldiers pose nato problems sanction evasion ?
how iran has been registering ships in the isle of man cultural pride taiwan 's efforts to revive indigenous languages most popular now most popular now -pipe- 20,400 people are reading stories on the site right now . " ; skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles widgets & alerts news feeds podcasts search term : bbc.co.uk navigation news sport weather tv radio more … a to f cbbc cbeebies food h to le health history learning lo to z nations & local music science & nature popular links top gear london 2012 full a-z of bbc sites back to start of navigation site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmx the bbc is not responsible for the content of external sites .
read more .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
