pope visits west bank , calls for palestinian statehood -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 10.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de religion -pipe- 13.05.2009 pope visits west bank , calls for palestinian statehood großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : palestinians gave an enthusiastic welcome to pope benedict during a visit to bethlehem , pope benedict xvi voiced support for palestinian aspirations of an independent homeland and said he hoped the wall that israel has erected in and around the west bank would come down . speaking in bethlehem after holding a mass in manger square , the pope pressed calls to remove the wall and watch towers that seal bethlehem off from jerusalem .
" towering over us ... is a stark reminder of the stalemate that relations between israelis and palestinians seem to have reached - the wall , " the pope said as he stood in the shadow of israel 's separation wall in the aida refugee camp , which houses refugees from israel 's creation in 1948 .
the pope said it 's " understandable that palestinians feel frustrated , " adding that " their legitimate aspirations for permanent homes , for an independent palestinian state , remain unfulfilled . "
the camp is home to around 5,000 refugees .
bildunterschrift : palestinian children at the aida refugee camp next to a poster of the pope " i have seen , ... overshadowing much of bethlehem , the wall that intrudes into your territories , separating neighbors and dividing families , " the pope said in the town believed to be the birthplace of jesus christ .
" although walls can be easily built , we all know that they do not last forever .
they can be taken down . "
pope lends support to palestinian statehood earlier , thousands greeted the pope 's black limousine as he made his way to manger square where he said mass for about 5,000 people next to the church of the nativity that marks the spot where christians believe jesus was born to mary in a stable .
one of the aims of the pope 's visit is to attempt to preserve a shrinking christian presence in the middle east .
the christian population of bethlehem has decreased dramatically in recent years through emigration . thousands of christians left the town after a palestinian uprising in 2000 and was met by an israeli security clampdown and the start of construction of the barrier .
the pope acknowledged israel 's security concerns as well as palestinian suffering , and urged people not to " resort to acts of violence or terrorism . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : pope benedict xvi outside of the church of the nativity in bethlehem the pope said his heart went out to those caught up in the conflict in gaza , adding that he was praying for an end to the israeli embargo of the gaza strip .
earlier , the pontiff told palestinian president mahmoud abbas that he backed the creation of a palestinian state .
" the holy see supports the right of your people to a sovereign palestinian homeland in the land of your forefathers , secure and at peace with your neighbors , within internationally recognized borders , " he said .
the pope 's comments are the vatican 's strongest and most symbolic public backing yet for an independent palestinian state .
the two-state solution is supported by abbas , arab nations and western powers .
but the new israeli prime minister , benjamin netanyahu , has declined so far to endorse it .
visit dogged by controversy the german-born pope 's week-long trip to the middle east , his first visit to the region , has not been without controversy .
on tuesday , a row erupted over the pope 's membership as a teenager of the hitler youth , as he paid a historic visit to holy sites in jerusalem .
vatican spokesman , federico lombardi , said the pontiff had " never , never , never " belonged to the organization , but later changed his version , saying that he had been a member but his membership was compulsory .
in his own 1997 memoirs , pope benedict had said he had been registered with the hitler youth while he was at a seminary .
the latest row comes on the heels of comments by some israeli leaders complaining that the pope did not go far enough in offering emotion in remarks he made on monday at the yad vashem memorial to the jewish dead of the holocaust . sp , pfd reuters / ap / dpa send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de pope continues balancing act on tour of holy sites in jerusalem pope benedict xvi became the first pope to enter a politically-charged shrine in jerusalem sacred to jews and muslims .
the pope continues to face criticism on the second day of a week-long visit to the region .
-lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- pope continues middle east tour as criticism of yad vashem speech grows pope benedict xvi used a service at jerusalem 's yad vashem memorial to express " deep compassion " for the victims of the holocaust .
but jewish leaders in germany and israel criticized the pope for not going far enough .
-lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- pope seeks to salve holocaust wounds pope benedict xvi is on his first trip to israel .
he has used a speech to seek to heal the wounds created by , among other things , his reinstatement of a holocaust-denying bishop .
-lrb- 11.05.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic pope benedict calls israel 's security barrier in the west bank " tragic " 07 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
berlin unveils plan to help rid banks of toxic assets -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 08.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de economy -pipe- 13.05.2009 berlin unveils plan to help rid banks of toxic assets großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : banks can now move to clean up their balance sheets the german cabinet has approved a draft law to help rid lenders of an estimated 200 billion euros -lrb- $ 272 billion -rrb- in worthless assets .
banks can swap the assets against guaranteed state loans for up to 20 years . the aim of the " bad bank " plan is to clean up lenders ' balance sheets and restore confidence in the financial sector .
the bill , drafted by finance minister peer steinbrueck , would enable banks to receive state guaranteed loans on commercial terms , in exchange for offloading their troubled assets .
through the government 's financial market stabilization fund , soffin , lenders would be able to swap toxic assets for guaranteed state loans worth 90 percent of the original value of the assets .
lenders would pay an annual fee and be able to " freeze " the assets until better times come along . after a maximum of 20 years , they would have to pay back any losses to the government .
some believe the german banks hold more than 200 billion euros of troubled assets .
" in the interests of the real economy , we are buying time so that the so-called toxic assets can be cleared up , " explained chancellor angela merkel 's chief of staff , thomas de maiziere .
what 's worthless today , may not be tomorrow bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : german finance minister peer steinbrueck says taxpayers will not foot the bill " it 's not clear how toxic these assets really are , " said finance expert , otto salms of the liberal free democrats -lrb- fdp -rrb- .
" some of these assets may well be worth more again once the crisis ends and the economy recovers .
if that 's the case , the banks may end up having to write off much less at a later date than they would if they were forced to liquidate these assets today . "
economic recovery and financial liquidity go hand in hand .
one of the factors that 's been driving the crisis around the world is that banks have stopped lending to each other because they have n't been able to assess the size of the financial black holes on each other 's balance sheets .
berlin hopes that by removing bad holdings from balance sheets banks will start lending to each other again , as well as to businesses and consumers .
this in turn would help kick-start the german economy , the biggest in europe , which is expected to shrink by six percent this year .
shareholders , not taxpayers , to bear the burden under the plan , which comes five months before a general election , any liabilities at the end of maturity would accrue to shareholders , and not to the taxpayer .
" it 's only right that whoever made profits through taking high risks over the years , must also be prepared to take the losses , " explained financial expert johannes kahrs , of the social democrats -lrb- spd -rrb- , the coalition partners of chancellor angela merkel 's christian democrats -lrb- cdu -rrb- . "
i think that 's reasonable , it 's a basic economic principle . "
some critics say the scheme is flawed because it is voluntary .
banks are not to be forced to dispose of toxic assets through the soffin national rescue program .
the government insists that " good banks " are interesting for investors and a cleaned up , reliable balance sheet will attract capital .
the draft legislation still has to go before both the lower and upper houses of parliament , the bundestag und bundesrat . wl / pfd / afp / ard send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de financial watchdog chief calls for " bad bank " for toxic assets the head of a watchdog committee of germany 's bank stabilization fund has called for the creation of a " bad bank " that could buy up toxic assets and unblock interbank lending .
-lrb- 11.01.2009 -rrb- us mortgage crisis hits german banks the battered subprime mortgage market in the united states is increasingly impacting the us economy .
now , losses from risky us home loans to borrowers with poor credit histories have swept across the atlantic .
-lrb- 31.07.2007 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic the german cabinet backs plan to relieve the country 's banks of their toxic assets 07 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live quadriga - der internationale talk we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
art german photographer lala aufsberg 's work is a fascinating historical record of the 20th century .
watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
italian suspect in german mob killings to be extradited to italy -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de crime -pipe- 13.05.2009 italian suspect in german mob killings to be extradited to italy großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : strangio has been top of the most-wanted lists both in germany and in italy giovanni strangio , an italian-born top suspect in a 2007 mafia shootout in germany , is to be extradited to italy , not germany , a dutch court ruled on wednesday . judge fred salomon said strangio , who was arrested in march in the netherlands , would be handed over to italian authorities because italy 's claim to the suspect was stronger than germany 's .
" the italian -lrb- extradition -rrb- request enjoys priority , " salomon said as he handed down the ruling in an amsterdam court . strangio , 30 , is an alleged leading member of the notorious southern italian mafia ' ndrangheta and one of the most wanted people in germany and italy .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the six victims in the duisburg mafia killings were shot in their cars he is suspected of being the ringleader of a shootout that left six rival clan members dead outside a pizzeria in duisburg , western germany , in august 2007 .
germany still wants strangio public prosecutors in duisburg had been trying to get strangio extradited to germany to try him in a local court .
but in recent weeks , it was widely expected that the dutch court would rule in favor of italy .
prosecutors in duisburg have agreed that strangio should be taken first to italy , spokesman detlef nowotsch said .
" we are stepping back for the time being , " nowotsch said .
" but that does n't mean that we do n't want strangio , " he added .
italy 's case for strangio stronger , judge says on wednesday , salomon said italy 's reasons for wanting to try strangio on home soil were more compelling than germany 's .
the judge said the german killings had been the result of clashes between rival clans in the italian town of san luca .
" therefore the relation with italy is bigger than the relation with duisburg where the crime took place , " salomon said .
the judge also pointed out that italy was seeking to prosecute strangio not only for the 2007 killings , but also for membership of a criminal organization .
" furthermore , all the victims had italian nationality , " he said .
strangio is to be transferred to italian custody from his dutch prison in the next 10 days .
killings draw attention to ' ndrangheta mafia the execution-style shootings in duisburg , which grabbed headlines in germany , stemmed from a feud between two rival clans .
the bloody crime drew international attention to the ' ndrangheta , a crime syndicate based in the southern italian region of calabria .
witnesses said they saw two attackers fire about 70 bullets at the six victims , aged 16 to 39 , as they were sitting in their cars after leaving the da bruno restaurant in the industrial city .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the killings outside the da bruno restaurant in duisburg sent shockwaves through germany the duisburg hit was believed to have been revenge for the 2006 christmas-time killing of maria strangio , a cousin of giovanni strangio and the wife of the head of the nirta-strangio clan , giovanni nirta , and the wounding of her son .
the battle between the rival clans has left 16 people dead since 1991 .
in march , an italian court jailed 31 people for the duisburg massacre , one of them for 13 years .
italy 's eurispes social studies institute has estimated ' ndrangheta 's turnover from trafficking in drugs and arms , prostitution and extortion in 2007 at 44 billion euros -lrb- $ 65 billion -rrb- .
strangio was arrested in march in the dutch town of diemen , after a lengthy probe involving telephone wire tapping , surveillance and close coordination between dutch , german and italian police . sp / pfd dpa / afp / reuters send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de dutch police arrest top suspect in duisburg mafia massacre dutch police have arrested an italian man named by authorities as the main suspect for the 2007 murder of six men outside a duisburg restaurant .
the man 's brother-in-law was also arrested during the operation .
-lrb- 13.03.2009 -rrb- police nab mafia boss tied to duisburg killings a suspected mafia boss who was implicated in the execution-style killings of six members of his clan in duisburg , germany , in 2007 , was finally tracked down in italy .
-lrb- 16.10.2008 -rrb- police arrest mafia boss with ties to duisburg massacre italian police arrested a wanted calabrian mafia boss who is the brother-in-law of a chief suspect in the august 2007 killings of six italians in duisburg , news reports said on thursday , aug .
7 .
-lrb- 07.08.2008 -rrb- 07 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live germany today - window on germany we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live living in germany listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
history austria returns the remains of 30 australian aborigines to their descendants after 100 years .
listen to the audio nuclear power france is n't following germany 's lead when it comes to shunning nuclear power .
watch the video espionage a russian court convicts a former intelligence officer for betraying 10 russian spies in the us .
listen to the audio poland a politician 's comment about the polish region of silesia stirs up an old debate about identity .
watch the video inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
cannes rolls out the world 's most famous red carpet once again -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 09.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle music art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de film -pipe- 13.05.2009 cannes rolls out the world 's most famous red carpet once again großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : in a cannes first , an animated film opened the festival each may , a festival held on the french riviera draws a collection of the world 's leading cinema minds from all corners of the globe : the cannes film festival .
this year 's edition kicked off on wednesday . the 62nd gathering of cinema 's elite in the resort town of cannes , which sits on france 's mediterranean coast , remains one of the world 's most esteemed and prestigious film festivals .
to win the coveted palme d 'or prize for best film at cannes could be described as a crowning achievement for any producer , director , actor or film studio involved in the production .
unlike other well-known film festivals , such as those in berlin and venice , the focus at cannes is usually on aesthetics : beautiful cinema .
though this year 's 20 entries take on more brutal tones .
this includes american quentin tarantino 's ultra-violent " inglourious basterds , " about a group of bloodthirsty nazi hunters , and korean park chan wook 's priest-turned-vampire flick " bak-jwi " -lrb- " thirst " -rrb- , which has already been racing up the movie charts in his home country .
maverick danish director lars von trier also raises the horror notch this year with his " antichrist , " in which willem dafoe and charlotte gainsbourg find themselves confronting their inner fears and some dark forces in a deserted cabin in the woods .
bildunterschrift : german director wim wenders ' film " paris , texas " is a past winner at cannes german co-production this year also sees a motion picture from germany-born director michael haneke , who directed the 2001 palme d 'or-winning film " the piano teacher . "
his latest cannes entry , " das weisse band " -lrb- " the white ribbon " -rrb- , is set in a village in protestant northern germany in 1913 .
haneke 's tale recreates a country on the eve of world war i , told through the lives of members of a youth choir run by the village school teacher and their families .
little more has been written about the film , the result of haneke 's strict policy of silence in the lead up to his films ' openings .
the film was a joint production between studios in germany , france , austria and italy .
if " the white ribbon " finds success at cannes this year , it would not be the first german co-production to make a name for itself at the festival .
in 1979 , volker schloendorff 's screen adaptation of " die blechtrommel " -lrb- " the tin drum " -rrb- took the top prize , as did wim wenders ' 1984 film " paris , texas . "
new and old faces bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : de niro will always be remembered for his leading role in " taxi driver " these films went on to become part of cinematic history , as do most palme d 'or winners .
this venerated list includes francis ford coppola 's " apocalypse now , " bunuel 's " viridiana , " visconti 's " the leopard " and scorsese 's " taxi driver . "
this year , all eyes will be on 3-d comedy " up " from us director pete docter , which is the first animated film to open the 12-day festival .
the story features an old man who ties balloons to his house in the hope of fulfilling a boyhood dream of flying to south america .
meanwhile , a man bent on avenging the death of his daughter in hong kong director jonnie to 's " vengeance " is also screening , and seven years after shaking up a storm in cannes with his story of rape in " irreversible , " france 's gaspar noe is back at the festival with " enter the void " about a brutal murder .
belt tightening bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the glitterati wo n't be stopped by the financial crisis with the economic crisis having cut a swathe through the world film industry over the last year , filmmakers from hollywood through to bollywood have faced cost-cutting , studio layoffs and an ever more cautious army of producers and movie financiers .
already signs have emerged that the motion picture business has scaled back plans for the lavish parties and extravagant promotional events that have always been a feature of the festival .
but all bets are that whatever the economic climate , this year 's gathering is still likely to celebrate movie-making and the cult of the celebrity with considerable style and flair . dfm / pfd / dpa / afp / reuters send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de germany 's film industry celebrates banner year in 2008 german productions contributed decisively to a banner year in the nation 's film industry in 2008 , continuing last year 's upbeat trend .
-lrb- 05.02.2009 -rrb- lights , camera , action for kosslick as berlinale approaches armed with a mischievous smile and twinkling eyes , dieter kosslick revels in his role as the director of the berlinale , which kicks off this year with a film about the illegal machinations of an international bank .
-lrb- 03.02.2009 -rrb- german love triangle squares off at venice film festival " jerichow , " a love triangle by german director christian petzold , screened at the venice film festival , the first german entry competing for the golden lion since 2004 .
it faces strong competition from the us and italy .
-lrb- 29.08.2008 -rrb- 07 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
twitter follow dw culture keep up on europe 's culture and lifestyle scene .
podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's new free podcast .
the podcast 's homepage somewhere between poet and singer : meet hans unstern subscribe on itunes get the rss feed word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
view from my window radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
soundscape 100 concert hour arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany agrees on bad bank scheme -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 09.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de banking -pipe- 13.05.2009 germany agrees on bad bank scheme großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : steinbrueck wants to reassure voters they wo n't wear the cost of the bail-out the german cabinet has agreed on a plan to clean up toxic assets from bank balance sheets .
in the run-up to the election , the issue has become highly politically charged . the scheme , which forms a key element of berlin 's bid to turn europe 's biggest economy around , would allow banks to park their toxic assets for up to 20 years , in specially created institutions .
banks would receive government backed bonds in return .
finance minister peer steinbrueck said the banks would still be held responsible for the toxic assets and , in the long run , they would bear the cost of transferring and holding the assets .
just five months out from a national election , the issue has proved politically prickly .
politicians are torn between the pressing need to revive germany 's foundering banking sector and burdening taxpayers with a huge bank bailout .
berlin hopes that once the toxic holdings have been removed from banks ' balance sheets , they will begin lending to each other and to businesses and consumers again .
that is meant to jolt the german economy back to life .
economic forecasters predict 6 percent shrinkage in europe 's biggest economy in 2009 . ch / ncy / afp / dpa send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german government steps in to clean up banks ' toxic assets the german government has drawn up a draft plan to clean up toxic assets from banks ' balance sheets , a key part of berlin 's bid to turn around europe 's biggest economy .
-lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- koehler blasts banks for keeping quiet over financial crisis in run up to presidential race , german president horst koehler has hit out at bankers ' greed , but is optimistic that the dark cloud of global financial crisis will have a silver lining .
-lrb- 02.05.2009 -rrb- leaked list reveals german banks have 816 billion euros in toxic assets a german newspaper has published a leaked list from the bafin financial oversight group that shows german banks are weighed down under 816 billion euros in toxic assets .
-lrb- 25.04.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic sweden 's bad bank scheme what is a bad bank ? 07 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live in focus - documentaries and reports we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
art german photographer lala aufsberg 's work is a fascinating historical record of the 20th century .
watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
french lawmakers to pull the plug on internet pirates -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 06.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de internet -pipe- 13.05.2009 french lawmakers to pull the plug on internet pirates großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : sarkozy championed the new legislation france has passed a bill that will let authorities track illegal downloading over the internet and disconnect repeat offenders .
opponents are critical of the law , arguing that access to the web is a fundamental right . the french senate on wednesday overwhelmingly voted into law a controversial measure that will cut off internet access to people who repeatedly download copyrighted music , films or video games without paying .
the vote , which had already passed the lower house by a narrow margin on tuesday , represents a success for president nicolas sarkozy , who championed the groundbreaking law .
the opposition socialists alienated many of their traditional supporters in the arts world by fighting the move .
the legislation aims to protect the revenues of record and film companies and recording artists .
after two warnings pirates will be cut off the tough new laws would punish music download pirates by shutting off their internet access for up to a year .
under the terms of the bill , internet pirates will receive two warnings , but their internet connection will be cut after the third offence .
during the time they are disconnected , they will have to continue paying their internet provider .
the music and film industries in france and abroad have shown wide support for the bill , but consumer groups and the socialist opposition have warned it would be difficult to implement .
opponents have criticized the penalties , and say access to the internet should be a fundamental right .
consumer groups said they feared intrusive monitoring of online activity and warn that innocent users may be unfairly punished if hackers use their accounts to download files .
the new law 's introduction onto the statute books is likely to be delayed by at least a month .
opponents have promised to challenge the legislation in france 's top court . ch / ncy / afp / reuters send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de major german online companies agree to block child porn websites german internet providers have grudgingly agreed to block websites containing child pornography .
critics say their deal with the government wo n't make much of a difference .
-lrb- 17.04.2009 -rrb- german artists defend copyright in google era google might reign as the unchallenged king of german search engines , but a lawsuit over the company 's popular image search feature brings into question the rights of german artists in the internet age .
-lrb- 21.10.2008 -rrb- new data law could benefit music pirates germany 's music industry fears that a new telephone data law could become a carte blanche for internet users , who download tunes illegally .
until now , they 've traced music pirates with the help of phone records .
-lrb- 30.03.2008 -rrb- 07 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live global 3000 we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live soundscape 100 soundscape 100 at immergut festival 2011 listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
spain deutsche welle takes a closer look at the protesters camped out in central madrid .
watch the video poland poles protest the visit by a representative of the germans expelled from poland .
listen to the audio health uk practioners are taking the eu to court over a ban on chinese herbal medicines .
listen to the audio postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
french burqa ban fits secular ideals is berlusconi giving italy a bad name ?
a dubious record for belgium inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
french lawmakers to pull the plug on internet pirates -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 08.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de internet -pipe- 13.05.2009 french lawmakers to pull the plug on internet pirates großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : sarkozy championed the new legislation france has passed a bill that will let authorities track illegal downloading over the internet and disconnect repeat offenders .
opponents are critical of the law , arguing that access to the web is a fundamental right . the french senate on wednesday overwhelmingly voted into law a controversial measure that will cut off internet access to people who repeatedly download copyrighted music , films or video games without paying .
the vote , which had already passed the lower house by a narrow margin on tuesday , represents a success for president nicolas sarkozy , who championed the groundbreaking law .
the opposition socialists alienated many of their traditional supporters in the arts world by fighting the move .
the legislation aims to protect the revenues of record and film companies and recording artists .
after two warnings pirates will be cut off the tough new laws would punish music download pirates by shutting off their internet access for up to a year .
under the terms of the bill , internet pirates will receive two warnings , but their internet connection will be cut after the third offence .
during the time they are disconnected , they will have to continue paying their internet provider .
the music and film industries in france and abroad have shown wide support for the bill , but consumer groups and the socialist opposition have warned it would be difficult to implement .
opponents have criticized the penalties , and say access to the internet should be a fundamental right .
consumer groups said they feared intrusive monitoring of online activity and warn that innocent users may be unfairly punished if hackers use their accounts to download files .
the new law 's introduction onto the statute books is likely to be delayed by at least a month .
opponents have promised to challenge the legislation in france 's top court . ch / ncy / afp / reuters send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de major german online companies agree to block child porn websites german internet providers have grudgingly agreed to block websites containing child pornography .
critics say their deal with the government wo n't make much of a difference .
-lrb- 17.04.2009 -rrb- german artists defend copyright in google era google might reign as the unchallenged king of german search engines , but a lawsuit over the company 's popular image search feature brings into question the rights of german artists in the internet age .
-lrb- 21.10.2008 -rrb- new data law could benefit music pirates germany 's music industry fears that a new telephone data law could become a carte blanche for internet users , who download tunes illegally .
until now , they 've traced music pirates with the help of phone records .
-lrb- 30.03.2008 -rrb- 07 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - news with business we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
history austria returns the remains of 30 australian aborigines to their descendants after 100 years .
listen to the audio nuclear power france is n't following germany 's lead when it comes to shunning nuclear power .
watch the video espionage a russian court convicts a former intelligence officer for betraying 10 russian spies in the us .
listen to the audio poland a politician 's comment about the polish region of silesia stirs up an old debate about identity .
watch the video inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
wolfsburg , bayern and hertha win matches -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 09.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de bundesliga -pipe- 13.05.2009 wolfsburg , bayern and hertha win matches großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : wolfsburg 's grafite celebrates bundesliga leaders vfl wolfsburg and their two main challengers bayern munich and hertha berlin showed the way on tuesday as they won their midweek league matches . hertha berlin secured a 2-1 victory at cologne .
wolfsburg beat borussia dortmund 3-0 , and bayern munich scored three times in the second half en route to a 3-0 victory over bayer leverkusen .
wolfsburg and bayern are now at the top of the table with 63 points and two games remaining , with wolfsburg just two goals better than their rivals from southern germany .
hertha berlin are a point behind the two , while vfb stuttgart could move to 61 points if they win at schalke 04 on wednesday .
the other game on tuesday saw bottom club karlsruhe sc all but relegated after giving away a 2-0 lead against hanover 96 before finally losing 3-2 .
wolfsburg striking duo grafite and edin dzeko again provided the goals that kept the northern german side at the top .
dzeko opened the scoring in the 14th minute with his 21st goal of the season , before the brazilian grafite added a second goal two minutes after the restart .
dzeko scored his second goal six minutes from the end after being set up by grafite , who heads the goal scorer standings with 24 goals .
dortmund ended the game with ten men after kevin-prince boateng was sent off in the 75th minute - just eight minutes after coming on as a substitute .
wolfsburg coach felix magath said that his side wanted to do well after losing their last game at vfb stuttgart 4-1 , adding , " we went in search of goals from the word go . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : dortmund 's head coach juergen klopp klopp believes dortmund coach juergen klopp said , “ we have the quality and at the end of the day , that will come through . "
he noted that wolfsburg played very well and said , " they deserved to win .
they are a strong side and we certainly do not think that we lost badly .
at the end of the day , the number of goals scored against us , does not matter really . "
bayern wins again in munich , the visitors were denied two penalties in the first half , but could do nothing as luca toni , franck ribery and lukas podolski scored the goals that kept bayern in the hunt for a 22nd german championship .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : jupp heynckes bayern has now won the last three games under new coach jupp heynckes , who took over when juergen klinsmann was sacked .
he changed the team on a few positions and gave germany striker podolski , who spent most of the time on the bench under klinsmann , a starting place .
podolski , who scored one goal and set up the others , saying , " we did well as a team and trained well .
i think you can see that on the field .
the new coach gave me the trust and played me from the beginning and i tried to repay him on the field . "
bayern manager uli hoeness said that his side could have won by a higher score .
" we decided not to tell the players what the other scores were and i still do not think that the championship will be decided on goal difference .
one team will still slip up . "
cicero gave berlin the lead in cologne three minutes from the break , before patrick ebert added a second midway through the second half with a shot that took a wicked deflection .
adil chihi pulled one back for cologne late in the game with his first-ever bundesliga goal .
karlsruhe looked on course for an important victory against hanover after alexander lashvili and lars stindl gave the home side a 2-0 lead after just 32 minutes .
however , sergio pinto and mikael forssell equalized matters before the break and hanno balitsch found a winner for hanover at the end of 64 minutes .
karlsruhe are last in the table with just 23 points and could be relegated on wednesday if three of the four teams directly above them win . av / ai / dpa / ap send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de wolfsburg on course for first-ever bundesliga title wolfsburg remain on target thrashing hoffenheim 4-0 as bayern win their first match in post-klinsmann era with four matches to play this season .
-lrb- 02.05.2009 -rrb- bremen ends hamburg hopes for bundesliga title bremen once again outclassed hamburg when they beat their northern german rivals 2-0 in a bundesliga match on sunday , all but killing off the side 's hopes for a league title .
-lrb- 10.05.2009 -rrb- gomez scores four as stuttgart thrashes wolfsburg mario gomez scored all four goals to take vfb stuttgart to a stunning 4-1 victory over bundesliga leaders vfl wolfsburg on saturday .
defending champions bayern munich won 3-1 against energie cottbus .
-lrb- 09.05.2009 -rrb- 07 dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit interview we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live living in germany listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
women 's world cup live coverage !
follow @ dw _ sports on twitter for germany 's next match against france : july 5 , 18:30 utc dw-radio listen to the latest from german soccer on dw-radio .
sports report corruption soccer scandal turkish police arrest 60 people in turkey 's biggest ever soccer match-fixing scandal .
anti-racism girls wanted : scouting for germany 's next generation of female football talent listen to the audio art women 's football - a source of inspiration watch the video video women 's soccer is more popular than ever in the us .
watch the video final standings click here for the final 2010-11 bundesliga table . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
sobibor survivor : demjanjuk trial will go down in history -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 07.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de world war ii -pipe- 13.05.2009 sobibor survivor : demjanjuk trial will go down in history großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some 250,000 jews , gypsies and political prisoners were murdered in sobibor 's gas chambers deutsche welle spoke with thomas blatt , one of few to escape from the nazi-run sobibor extermination camp .
he says he does n't care whether john demjanjuk is jailed for working at the camp , just that he tells the truth . thomas blatt was one of the few to survive the sobibor extermination camp in nazi-occupied poland during world war ii .
the 82-year-old is now a key witness in the munich trial of john demjanjuk , who is alleged to have been a guard at sobibor .
deutsche welle : why did you decide to come to germany for this trial ?
thomas blatt : because when i escaped from sobibor , i promised myself that if i survived , i will do everything to tell the story of sobibor .
and that 's what i 'm doing .
and i know that demjanjuk knows a lot , because demjanjuk was in the middle of the holocaust .
and he denies that it is him , that he was not a guard at sobibor , but he was .
i do n't care if demjanjuk is in jail or not .
i do care that he should tell the truth .
and the truth is , that he was a guard at sobibor .
sobibor was not a simple concentration camp .
sobibor was an extermination camp .
at sobibor the guards were simple murderers .
in a concentration camp a guard was a guard , … responsible -lsb- for preventing -rsb- people from running away .
but at sobibor they were simple murderers .
you said that among the guards at sobibor some were sadistic .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : demjanjuk 's wartime identification card is a major piece of evidence against him i said that they were sadistic and that some guards escaped from sobibor .
but demjanjuk did not escape .
he was there all the time with the nazis .
i do n't say that i -lsb- saw -rsb- him for sure .
-lsb- the guards -rsb- were very sadistic .
and we were more afraid of the guards than we were of the germans .
i 'm sure i know that he was a guard .
it is my duty to tell .
he should tell what sobibor was for .
what will be your reaction if there is not enough evidence to find mr. demjanjuk guilty ?
i believe that he will tell the truth , the way it was in sobibor .
and this will be part of history .
this will be -lsb- something -rsb- for the new generation to learn .
because what he has seen , few people have seen .
i strongly believe he will tell the truth .
and later demjanjuk could go free .
for me his testimony is very important , and that 's why i am in munich following demjanjuk 's story .
i am sorry in a way for demjanjuk .
he 's an old man , 89 years old .
he 's sick , he has a family .
so i 'm sorry in a way .
and i think that many people think the same way : he 's an old man , he 's suffered so much .
but i also see the other side of demjanjuk .
i see him as a terrible sadist , a murderer .
he did n't run away from his work .
interview : michael lawton editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de suspected nazi prison camp guard deported to germany the us has deported an alleged former nazi prison camp guard to germany .
jewish leaders hailed john demjanjuk 's deportation , saying they hoped it was n't too late for the 89-year-old to be brought to justice .
-lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- opinion : no statute of limitations on horrors of the holocaust after decades of judicial wrangling , the alleged nazi criminal john demjanjuk is to stand trial in germany .
on tuesday he was flown to munich and brought to a prison awaiting trial .
cornelia rabitz has this commentary : -lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- us seeks to clear path for demjanjuk deportation , again the us government has sought to clear the way to deport alleged former death camp guard john demjanjuk , just days after a us court postponed his deportation to wait for proof that he is fit to travel to germany .
-lrb- 21.04.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic michael lawton talks to raphael gross of the fritz bauer institute for holocaust studies about john demjanjuk nazi war crimes suspect john demjanjuk deported to germany -lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- 07 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
podcast series kades , from one of nairobi 's largest slums , plays djb in shujaaz , a weekly radio show .
download the podcast international conference media representatives around the world gather in bonn to discuss human rights .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
sobibor survivor : demjanjuk trial will go down in history -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 09.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de world war ii -pipe- 13.05.2009 sobibor survivor : demjanjuk trial will go down in history großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some 250,000 jews , gypsies and political prisoners were murdered in sobibor 's gas chambers deutsche welle spoke with thomas blatt , one of few to escape from the nazi-run sobibor extermination camp .
he says he does n't care whether john demjanjuk is jailed for working at the camp , just that he tells the truth . thomas blatt was one of the few to survive the sobibor extermination camp in nazi-occupied poland during world war ii .
the 82-year-old is now a key witness in the munich trial of john demjanjuk , who is alleged to have been a guard at sobibor .
deutsche welle : why did you decide to come to germany for this trial ?
thomas blatt : because when i escaped from sobibor , i promised myself that if i survived , i will do everything to tell the story of sobibor .
and that 's what i 'm doing .
and i know that demjanjuk knows a lot , because demjanjuk was in the middle of the holocaust .
and he denies that it is him , that he was not a guard at sobibor , but he was .
i do n't care if demjanjuk is in jail or not .
i do care that he should tell the truth .
and the truth is , that he was a guard at sobibor .
sobibor was not a simple concentration camp .
sobibor was an extermination camp .
at sobibor the guards were simple murderers .
in a concentration camp a guard was a guard , … responsible -lsb- for preventing -rsb- people from running away .
but at sobibor they were simple murderers .
you said that among the guards at sobibor some were sadistic .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : demjanjuk 's wartime identification card is a major piece of evidence against him i said that they were sadistic and that some guards escaped from sobibor .
but demjanjuk did not escape .
he was there all the time with the nazis .
i do n't say that i -lsb- saw -rsb- him for sure .
-lsb- the guards -rsb- were very sadistic .
and we were more afraid of the guards than we were of the germans .
i 'm sure i know that he was a guard .
it is my duty to tell .
he should tell what sobibor was for .
what will be your reaction if there is not enough evidence to find mr. demjanjuk guilty ?
i believe that he will tell the truth , the way it was in sobibor .
and this will be part of history .
this will be -lsb- something -rsb- for the new generation to learn .
because what he has seen , few people have seen .
i strongly believe he will tell the truth .
and later demjanjuk could go free .
for me his testimony is very important , and that 's why i am in munich following demjanjuk 's story .
i am sorry in a way for demjanjuk .
he 's an old man , 89 years old .
he 's sick , he has a family .
so i 'm sorry in a way .
and i think that many people think the same way : he 's an old man , he 's suffered so much .
but i also see the other side of demjanjuk .
i see him as a terrible sadist , a murderer .
he did n't run away from his work .
interview : michael lawton editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de suspected nazi prison camp guard deported to germany the us has deported an alleged former nazi prison camp guard to germany .
jewish leaders hailed john demjanjuk 's deportation , saying they hoped it was n't too late for the 89-year-old to be brought to justice .
-lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- opinion : no statute of limitations on horrors of the holocaust after decades of judicial wrangling , the alleged nazi criminal john demjanjuk is to stand trial in germany .
on tuesday he was flown to munich and brought to a prison awaiting trial .
cornelia rabitz has this commentary : -lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- us seeks to clear path for demjanjuk deportation , again the us government has sought to clear the way to deport alleged former death camp guard john demjanjuk , just days after a us court postponed his deportation to wait for proof that he is fit to travel to germany .
-lrb- 21.04.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic michael lawton talks to raphael gross of the fritz bauer institute for holocaust studies about john demjanjuk nazi war crimes suspect john demjanjuk deported to germany -lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- 07 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
in depth focus on libya dw-world looks at the turmoil in libya : what it means for tripoli and the rest of the world .
cairo clashes cairo 's tahrir square is back in the headlines after violent clashes between protesters and police .
watch the video podcast series college grad leom left a modern life in cambodia 's capital to bring knowledge to a remote village .
download the report subscribe to the series on itunes past episodes international conference media representatives around the world gather in bonn to discuss human rights .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
van gaal to become next bayern munich coach -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 09.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de soccer -pipe- 13.05.2009 van gaal to become next bayern munich coach großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : futuer bayern munich head coach louis van gaal bayern munich are set to sign dutch coach louis van gaal ending weeks of speculation over who will be in charge of the bundesliga soccer club next season . bayern munich have confirmed that dutch coach louis van gaal will join the defending bundesliga champions as head coach on a two-year contract as of july 1 .
he is to replace interim coach jupp heynkes , who took over after juergen klinsmann was fired last month .
the coach who has led az alkmaar to their first dutch league title since 1981 , had been bayern 's first choice for the job . other managers under consideration are said to have included inter manager jose mourinho and arsenal 's arsene wenger .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bayern chairman karl-heinz rummenigge munich pleased with choice " we are happy that in louis van gaal we have managed to secure such an experienced and successful coach for bayern munich , " said bayern chairman karl-heinz rummenigge in a statement posted on the club 's website on wednesday .
having steered ajax to the champions league title in 1995 , van gaal , 57 , has a wealth of experience having also led the giants from amsterdam to consecutive dutch titles in 1994 , 1995 and 1996 .
after leading barcelona to back-to-back spanish league titles in 1998 and 1999 , the only blip in an otherwise exceptional career was when he took charge of the netherlands in 2000 .
when the dutch failed to reach the world cup finals in japan and south korea in 2002 , he was replaced by dick advocaat .
van gaal inherits a squad that is level on points with bundesliga leaders wolfsburg with two games remaining in the season .
he is expected to be closely involved in transfer decisions at the end of this season .
in return for alkmaar agreeing to release van gaal before his contract expires , bayern have agreed to play a friendly against alkmaar in the summer of 2010 without charging a fee . nt / pfd , sid / reuters / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ? 07 dw-tv europe live journal - news with business review we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
women 's world cup live coverage !
follow @ dw _ sports on twitter for germany 's next match against france : july 5 , 18:30 utc dw-radio listen to the latest from german soccer on dw-radio .
sports report corruption soccer scandal turkish police arrest 60 people in turkey 's biggest ever soccer match-fixing scandal .
anti-racism girls wanted : scouting for germany 's next generation of female football talent listen to the audio art women 's football - a source of inspiration watch the video video women 's soccer is more popular than ever in the us .
watch the video final standings click here for the final 2010-11 bundesliga table . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
french lawmakers to pull the plug on internet pirates -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 02.04.2011 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de internet -pipe- 13.05.2009 french lawmakers to pull the plug on internet pirates großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : sarkozy championed the new legislation france has passed a bill that will let authorities track illegal downloading over the internet and disconnect repeat offenders .
opponents are critical of the law , arguing that access to the web is a fundamental right . the french senate on wednesday overwhelmingly voted into law a controversial measure that will cut off internet access to people who repeatedly download copyrighted music , films or video games without paying .
the vote , which had already passed the lower house by a narrow margin on tuesday , represents a success for president nicolas sarkozy , who championed the groundbreaking law .
the opposition socialists alienated many of their traditional supporters in the arts world by fighting the move .
the legislation aims to protect the revenues of record and film companies and recording artists .
after two warnings pirates will be cut off the tough new laws would punish music download pirates by shutting off their internet access for up to a year .
under the terms of the bill , internet pirates will receive two warnings , but their internet connection will be cut after the third offence .
during the time they are disconnected , they will have to continue paying their internet provider .
the music and film industries in france and abroad have shown wide support for the bill , but consumer groups and the socialist opposition have warned it would be difficult to implement .
opponents have criticized the penalties , and say access to the internet should be a fundamental right .
consumer groups said they feared intrusive monitoring of online activity and warn that innocent users may be unfairly punished if hackers use their accounts to download files .
the new law 's introduction onto the statute books is likely to be delayed by at least a month .
opponents have promised to challenge the legislation in france 's top court . ch / ncy / afp / reuters send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de major german online companies agree to block child porn websites german internet providers have grudgingly agreed to block websites containing child pornography .
critics say their deal with the government wo n't make much of a difference .
-lrb- 17.04.2009 -rrb- german artists defend copyright in google era google might reign as the unchallenged king of german search engines , but a lawsuit over the company 's popular image search feature brings into question the rights of german artists in the internet age .
-lrb- 21.10.2008 -rrb- new data law could benefit music pirates germany 's music industry fears that a new telephone data law could become a carte blanche for internet users , who download tunes illegally .
until now , they 've traced music pirates with the help of phone records .
-lrb- 30.03.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live people and politics we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
italians hard hit by plastic bag ban east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
french lawmakers to pull the plug on internet pirates -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.09.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de internet -pipe- 13.05.2009 french lawmakers to pull the plug on internet pirates großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : sarkozy championed the new legislation france has passed a bill that will let authorities track illegal downloading over the internet and disconnect repeat offenders .
opponents are critical of the law , arguing that access to the web is a fundamental right . the french senate on wednesday overwhelmingly voted into law a controversial measure that will cut off internet access to people who repeatedly download copyrighted music , films or video games without paying .
the vote , which had already passed the lower house by a narrow margin on tuesday , represents a success for president nicolas sarkozy , who championed the groundbreaking law .
the opposition socialists alienated many of their traditional supporters in the arts world by fighting the move .
the legislation aims to protect the revenues of record and film companies and recording artists .
after two warnings pirates will be cut off the tough new laws would punish music download pirates by shutting off their internet access for up to a year .
under the terms of the bill , internet pirates will receive two warnings , but their internet connection will be cut after the third offence .
during the time they are disconnected , they will have to continue paying their internet provider .
the music and film industries in france and abroad have shown wide support for the bill , but consumer groups and the socialist opposition have warned it would be difficult to implement .
opponents have criticized the penalties , and say access to the internet should be a fundamental right .
consumer groups said they feared intrusive monitoring of online activity and warn that innocent users may be unfairly punished if hackers use their accounts to download files .
the new law 's introduction onto the statute books is likely to be delayed by at least a month .
opponents have promised to challenge the legislation in france 's top court . ch / ncy / afp / reuters send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de major german online companies agree to block child porn websites german internet providers have grudgingly agreed to block websites containing child pornography .
critics say their deal with the government wo n't make much of a difference .
-lrb- 17.04.2009 -rrb- german artists defend copyright in google era google might reign as the unchallenged king of german search engines , but a lawsuit over the company 's popular image search feature brings into question the rights of german artists in the internet age .
-lrb- 21.10.2008 -rrb- new data law could benefit music pirates germany 's music industry fears that a new telephone data law could become a carte blanche for internet users , who download tunes illegally .
until now , they 've traced music pirates with the help of phone records .
-lrb- 30.03.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live hits in germany pop from the german top 100 listen live people natascha kampusch , the austrian who was kept prisoner from age 10 to 18 , publishes her autobigraphy .
listen to the report postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket are the gay games necessary ?
love parade - the end of an era oracle paul takes the plunge europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany agrees on bad bank scheme -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 22.01.2011 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de banking -pipe- 13.05.2009 germany agrees on bad bank scheme großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : steinbrueck wants to reassure voters they wo n't wear the cost of the bail-out the german cabinet has agreed on a plan to clean up toxic assets from bank balance sheets .
in the run-up to the election , the issue has become highly politically charged . the scheme , which forms a key element of berlin 's bid to turn europe 's biggest economy around , would allow banks to park their toxic assets for up to 20 years , in specially created institutions .
banks would receive government backed bonds in return .
finance minister peer steinbrueck said the banks would still be held responsible for the toxic assets and , in the long run , they would bear the cost of transferring and holding the assets .
just five months out from a national election , the issue has proved politically prickly .
politicians are torn between the pressing need to revive germany 's foundering banking sector and burdening taxpayers with a huge bank bailout .
berlin hopes that once the toxic holdings have been removed from banks ' balance sheets , they will begin lending to each other and to businesses and consumers again .
that is meant to jolt the german economy back to life .
economic forecasters predict 6 percent shrinkage in europe 's biggest economy in 2009 . ch / ncy / afp / dpa send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german government steps in to clean up banks ' toxic assets the german government has drawn up a draft plan to clean up toxic assets from banks ' balance sheets , a key part of berlin 's bid to turn around europe 's biggest economy .
-lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- koehler blasts banks for keeping quiet over financial crisis in run up to presidential race , german president horst koehler has hit out at bankers ' greed , but is optimistic that the dark cloud of global financial crisis will have a silver lining .
-lrb- 02.05.2009 -rrb- leaked list reveals german banks have 816 billion euros in toxic assets a german newspaper has published a leaked list from the bafin financial oversight group that shows german banks are weighed down under 816 billion euros in toxic assets .
-lrb- 25.04.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic sweden 's bad bank scheme what is a bad bank ?
feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inside europe listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
pope visits west bank , calls for palestinian statehood -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 20.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de religion -pipe- 13.05.2009 pope visits west bank , calls for palestinian statehood großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : palestinians gave an enthusiastic welcome to pope benedict during a visit to bethlehem , pope benedict xvi voiced support for palestinian aspirations of an independent homeland and said he hoped the wall that israel has erected in and around the west bank would come down . speaking in bethlehem after holding a mass in manger square , the pope pressed calls to remove the wall and watch towers that seal bethlehem off from jerusalem .
" towering over us ... is a stark reminder of the stalemate that relations between israelis and palestinians seem to have reached - the wall , " the pope said as he stood in the shadow of israel 's separation wall in the aida refugee camp , which houses refugees from israel 's creation in 1948 .
the pope said it 's " understandable that palestinians feel frustrated , " adding that " their legitimate aspirations for permanent homes , for an independent palestinian state , remain unfulfilled . "
the camp is home to around 5,000 refugees .
bildunterschrift : palestinian children at the aida refugee camp next to a poster of the pope " i have seen , ... overshadowing much of bethlehem , the wall that intrudes into your territories , separating neighbors and dividing families , " the pope said in the town believed to be the birthplace of jesus christ .
" although walls can be easily built , we all know that they do not last forever .
they can be taken down . "
pope lends support to palestinian statehood earlier , thousands greeted the pope 's black limousine as he made his way to manger square where he said mass for about 5,000 people next to the church of the nativity that marks the spot where christians believe jesus was born to mary in a stable .
one of the aims of the pope 's visit is to attempt to preserve a shrinking christian presence in the middle east .
the christian population of bethlehem has decreased dramatically in recent years through emigration . thousands of christians left the town after a palestinian uprising in 2000 and was met by an israeli security clampdown and the start of construction of the barrier .
the pope acknowledged israel 's security concerns as well as palestinian suffering , and urged people not to " resort to acts of violence or terrorism . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : pope benedict xvi outside of the church of the nativity in bethlehem the pope said his heart went out to those caught up in the conflict in gaza , adding that he was praying for an end to the israeli embargo of the gaza strip .
earlier , the pontiff told palestinian president mahmoud abbas that he backed the creation of a palestinian state .
" the holy see supports the right of your people to a sovereign palestinian homeland in the land of your forefathers , secure and at peace with your neighbors , within internationally recognized borders , " he said .
the pope 's comments are the vatican 's strongest and most symbolic public backing yet for an independent palestinian state .
the two-state solution is supported by abbas , arab nations and western powers .
but the new israeli prime minister , benjamin netanyahu , has declined so far to endorse it .
visit dogged by controversy the german-born pope 's week-long trip to the middle east , his first visit to the region , has not been without controversy .
on tuesday , a row erupted over the pope 's membership as a teenager of the hitler youth , as he paid a historic visit to holy sites in jerusalem .
vatican spokesman , federico lombardi , said the pontiff had " never , never , never " belonged to the organization , but later changed his version , saying that he had been a member but his membership was compulsory .
in his own 1997 memoirs , pope benedict had said he had been registered with the hitler youth while he was at a seminary .
the latest row comes on the heels of comments by some israeli leaders complaining that the pope did not go far enough in offering emotion in remarks he made on monday at the yad vashem memorial to the jewish dead of the holocaust . sp , pfd reuters / ap / dpa send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de pope continues balancing act on tour of holy sites in jerusalem pope benedict xvi became the first pope to enter a politically-charged shrine in jerusalem sacred to jews and muslims .
the pope continues to face criticism on the second day of a week-long visit to the region .
-lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- pope continues middle east tour as criticism of yad vashem speech grows pope benedict xvi used a service at jerusalem 's yad vashem memorial to express " deep compassion " for the victims of the holocaust .
but jewish leaders in germany and israel criticized the pope for not going far enough .
-lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- pope seeks to salve holocaust wounds pope benedict xvi is on his first trip to israel .
he has used a speech to seek to heal the wounds created by , among other things , his reinstatement of a holocaust-denying bishop .
-lrb- 11.05.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic pope benedict calls israel 's security barrier in the west bank " tragic " feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
wolfsburg , bayern and hertha win matches -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 15.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de bundesliga -pipe- 13.05.2009 wolfsburg , bayern and hertha win matches großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : wolfsburg 's grafite celebrates bundesliga leaders vfl wolfsburg and their two main challengers bayern munich and hertha berlin showed the way on tuesday as they won their midweek league matches . hertha berlin secured a 2-1 victory at cologne .
wolfsburg beat borussia dortmund 3-0 , and bayern munich scored three times in the second half en route to a 3-0 victory over bayer leverkusen .
wolfsburg and bayern are now at the top of the table with 63 points and two games remaining , with wolfsburg just two goals better than their rivals from southern germany .
hertha berlin are a point behind the two , while vfb stuttgart could move to 61 points if they win at schalke 04 on wednesday .
the other game on tuesday saw bottom club karlsruhe sc all but relegated after giving away a 2-0 lead against hanover 96 before finally losing 3-2 .
wolfsburg striking duo grafite and edin dzeko again provided the goals that kept the northern german side at the top .
dzeko opened the scoring in the 14th minute with his 21st goal of the season , before the brazilian grafite added a second goal two minutes after the restart .
dzeko scored his second goal six minutes from the end after being set up by grafite , who heads the goal scorer standings with 24 goals .
dortmund ended the game with ten men after kevin-prince boateng was sent off in the 75th minute - just eight minutes after coming on as a substitute .
wolfsburg coach felix magath said that his side wanted to do well after losing their last game at vfb stuttgart 4-1 , adding , " we went in search of goals from the word go . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : dortmund 's head coach juergen klopp klopp believes dortmund coach juergen klopp said , “ we have the quality and at the end of the day , that will come through . "
he noted that wolfsburg played very well and said , " they deserved to win .
they are a strong side and we certainly do not think that we lost badly .
at the end of the day , the number of goals scored against us , does not matter really . "
bayern wins again in munich , the visitors were denied two penalties in the first half , but could do nothing as luca toni , franck ribery and lukas podolski scored the goals that kept bayern in the hunt for a 22nd german championship .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : jupp heynckes bayern has now won the last three games under new coach jupp heynckes , who took over when juergen klinsmann was sacked .
he changed the team on a few positions and gave germany striker podolski , who spent most of the time on the bench under klinsmann , a starting place .
podolski , who scored one goal and set up the others , saying , " we did well as a team and trained well .
i think you can see that on the field .
the new coach gave me the trust and played me from the beginning and i tried to repay him on the field . "
bayern manager uli hoeness said that his side could have won by a higher score .
" we decided not to tell the players what the other scores were and i still do not think that the championship will be decided on goal difference .
one team will still slip up . "
cicero gave berlin the lead in cologne three minutes from the break , before patrick ebert added a second midway through the second half with a shot that took a wicked deflection .
adil chihi pulled one back for cologne late in the game with his first-ever bundesliga goal .
karlsruhe looked on course for an important victory against hanover after alexander lashvili and lars stindl gave the home side a 2-0 lead after just 32 minutes .
however , sergio pinto and mikael forssell equalized matters before the break and hanno balitsch found a winner for hanover at the end of 64 minutes .
karlsruhe are last in the table with just 23 points and could be relegated on wednesday if three of the four teams directly above them win . av / ai / dpa / ap send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de wolfsburg on course for first-ever bundesliga title wolfsburg remain on target thrashing hoffenheim 4-0 as bayern win their first match in post-klinsmann era with four matches to play this season .
-lrb- 02.05.2009 -rrb- bremen ends hamburg hopes for bundesliga title bremen once again outclassed hamburg when they beat their northern german rivals 2-0 in a bundesliga match on sunday , all but killing off the side 's hopes for a league title .
-lrb- 10.05.2009 -rrb- gomez scores four as stuttgart thrashes wolfsburg mario gomez scored all four goals to take vfb stuttgart to a stunning 4-1 victory over bundesliga leaders vfl wolfsburg on saturday .
defending champions bayern munich won 3-1 against energie cottbus .
-lrb- 09.05.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report high scorer freiburg 's papiss demba cisse opens up to dw-tv 's bundesliga kick off ! about his goalscoring ways .
watch the report scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results at a glance .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia moenchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
cannes rolls out the world 's most famous red carpet once again -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 06.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle music art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de film -pipe- 13.05.2009 cannes rolls out the world 's most famous red carpet once again großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : in a cannes first , an animated film opened the festival each may , a festival held on the french riviera draws a collection of the world 's leading cinema minds from all corners of the globe : the cannes film festival .
this year 's edition kicked off on wednesday . the 62nd gathering of cinema 's elite in the resort town of cannes , which sits on france 's mediterranean coast , remains one of the world 's most esteemed and prestigious film festivals .
to win the coveted palme d 'or prize for best film at cannes could be described as a crowning achievement for any producer , director , actor or film studio involved in the production .
unlike other well-known film festivals , such as those in berlin and venice , the focus at cannes is usually on aesthetics : beautiful cinema .
though this year 's 20 entries take on more brutal tones .
this includes american quentin tarantino 's ultra-violent " inglourious basterds , " about a group of bloodthirsty nazi hunters , and korean park chan wook 's priest-turned-vampire flick " bak-jwi " -lrb- " thirst " -rrb- , which has already been racing up the movie charts in his home country .
maverick danish director lars von trier also raises the horror notch this year with his " antichrist , " in which willem dafoe and charlotte gainsbourg find themselves confronting their inner fears and some dark forces in a deserted cabin in the woods .
bildunterschrift : german director wim wenders ' film " paris , texas " is a past winner at cannes german co-production this year also sees a motion picture from germany-born director michael haneke , who directed the 2001 palme d 'or-winning film " the piano teacher . "
his latest cannes entry , " das weisse band " -lrb- " the white ribbon " -rrb- , is set in a village in protestant northern germany in 1913 .
haneke 's tale recreates a country on the eve of world war i , told through the lives of members of a youth choir run by the village school teacher and their families .
little more has been written about the film , the result of haneke 's strict policy of silence in the lead up to his films ' openings .
the film was a joint production between studios in germany , france , austria and italy .
if " the white ribbon " finds success at cannes this year , it would not be the first german co-production to make a name for itself at the festival .
in 1979 , volker schloendorff 's screen adaptation of " die blechtrommel " -lrb- " the tin drum " -rrb- took the top prize , as did wim wenders ' 1984 film " paris , texas . "
new and old faces bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : de niro will always be remembered for his leading role in " taxi driver " these films went on to become part of cinematic history , as do most palme d 'or winners .
this venerated list includes francis ford coppola 's " apocalypse now , " bunuel 's " viridiana , " visconti 's " the leopard " and scorsese 's " taxi driver . "
this year , all eyes will be on 3-d comedy " up " from us director pete docter , which is the first animated film to open the 12-day festival .
the story features an old man who ties balloons to his house in the hope of fulfilling a boyhood dream of flying to south america .
meanwhile , a man bent on avenging the death of his daughter in hong kong director jonnie to 's " vengeance " is also screening , and seven years after shaking up a storm in cannes with his story of rape in " irreversible , " france 's gaspar noe is back at the festival with " enter the void " about a brutal murder .
belt tightening bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the glitterati wo n't be stopped by the financial crisis with the economic crisis having cut a swathe through the world film industry over the last year , filmmakers from hollywood through to bollywood have faced cost-cutting , studio layoffs and an ever more cautious army of producers and movie financiers .
already signs have emerged that the motion picture business has scaled back plans for the lavish parties and extravagant promotional events that have always been a feature of the festival .
but all bets are that whatever the economic climate , this year 's gathering is still likely to celebrate movie-making and the cult of the celebrity with considerable style and flair . dfm / pfd / dpa / afp / reuters send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de germany 's film industry celebrates banner year in 2008 german productions contributed decisively to a banner year in the nation 's film industry in 2008 , continuing last year 's upbeat trend .
-lrb- 05.02.2009 -rrb- lights , camera , action for kosslick as berlinale approaches armed with a mischievous smile and twinkling eyes , dieter kosslick revels in his role as the director of the berlinale , which kicks off this year with a film about the illegal machinations of an international bank .
-lrb- 03.02.2009 -rrb- german love triangle squares off at venice film festival " jerichow , " a love triangle by german director christian petzold , screened at the venice film festival , the first german entry competing for the golden lion since 2004 .
it faces strong competition from the us and italy .
-lrb- 29.08.2008 -rrb- 9800 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
twitter follow dw culture keep up on europe 's culture and lifestyle scene .
travel take a close-up look at some of europe 's most exciting cities .
bern , switzerland freiburg , germany jerez de la frontera , spain oxford , britain bordeaux , france dw-tv : euromaxx cuisine get a taste of europe with these gourmet recipes .
swedish crispbread saddle of rabbit with asparagus risotto rutabaga soup dumplings with meat filling sweet-savory pheasant from leeds dw-tv : euromaxx podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's new free podcast .
' clip ' homepage clip no. 12 - favorite alt-rockers ja , panik are back subscribe on itunes get the rss feed word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
soundscape 100 concert hour arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
van gaal to become next bayern munich coach -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de soccer -pipe- 13.05.2009 van gaal to become next bayern munich coach großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : futuer bayern munich head coach louis van gaal bayern munich are set to sign dutch coach louis van gaal ending weeks of speculation over who will be in charge of the bundesliga soccer club next season . bayern munich have confirmed that dutch coach louis van gaal will join the defending bundesliga champions as head coach on a two-year contract as of july 1 .
he is to replace interim coach jupp heynkes , who took over after juergen klinsmann was fired last month .
the coach who has led az alkmaar to their first dutch league title since 1981 , had been bayern 's first choice for the job . other managers under consideration are said to have included inter manager jose mourinho and arsenal 's arsene wenger .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bayern chairman karl-heinz rummenigge munich pleased with choice " we are happy that in louis van gaal we have managed to secure such an experienced and successful coach for bayern munich , " said bayern chairman karl-heinz rummenigge in a statement posted on the club 's website on wednesday .
having steered ajax to the champions league title in 1995 , van gaal , 57 , has a wealth of experience having also led the giants from amsterdam to consecutive dutch titles in 1994 , 1995 and 1996 .
after leading barcelona to back-to-back spanish league titles in 1998 and 1999 , the only blip in an otherwise exceptional career was when he took charge of the netherlands in 2000 .
when the dutch failed to reach the world cup finals in japan and south korea in 2002 , he was replaced by dick advocaat .
van gaal inherits a squad that is level on points with bundesliga leaders wolfsburg with two games remaining in the season .
he is expected to be closely involved in transfer decisions at the end of this season .
in return for alkmaar agreeing to release van gaal before his contract expires , bayern have agreed to play a friendly against alkmaar in the summer of 2010 without charging a fee . nt / pfd , sid / reuters / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ? 9800 dw-tv europe live global 3000 - das globalisierungsmagazin we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live dw-radio would you listen ?
the best of german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report referees a new high-tech center in spain hopes to help referees improve their skills .
listen to the report media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
berlin unveils plan to help rid banks of toxic assets -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 11.09.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de economy -pipe- 13.05.2009 berlin unveils plan to help rid banks of toxic assets großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : banks can now move to clean up their balance sheets the german cabinet has approved a draft law to help rid lenders of an estimated 200 billion euros -lrb- $ 272 billion -rrb- in worthless assets .
banks can swap the assets against guaranteed state loans for up to 20 years . the aim of the " bad bank " plan is to clean up lenders ' balance sheets and restore confidence in the financial sector .
the bill , drafted by finance minister peer steinbrueck , would enable banks to receive state guaranteed loans on commercial terms , in exchange for offloading their troubled assets .
through the government 's financial market stabilization fund , soffin , lenders would be able to swap toxic assets for guaranteed state loans worth 90 percent of the original value of the assets .
lenders would pay an annual fee and be able to " freeze " the assets until better times come along . after a maximum of 20 years , they would have to pay back any losses to the government .
some believe the german banks hold more than 200 billion euros of troubled assets .
" in the interests of the real economy , we are buying time so that the so-called toxic assets can be cleared up , " explained chancellor angela merkel 's chief of staff , thomas de maiziere .
what 's worthless today , may not be tomorrow bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : german finance minister peer steinbrueck says taxpayers will not foot the bill " it 's not clear how toxic these assets really are , " said finance expert , otto salms of the liberal free democrats -lrb- fdp -rrb- .
" some of these assets may well be worth more again once the crisis ends and the economy recovers .
if that 's the case , the banks may end up having to write off much less at a later date than they would if they were forced to liquidate these assets today . "
economic recovery and financial liquidity go hand in hand .
one of the factors that 's been driving the crisis around the world is that banks have stopped lending to each other because they have n't been able to assess the size of the financial black holes on each other 's balance sheets .
berlin hopes that by removing bad holdings from balance sheets banks will start lending to each other again , as well as to businesses and consumers .
this in turn would help kick-start the german economy , the biggest in europe , which is expected to shrink by six percent this year .
shareholders , not taxpayers , to bear the burden under the plan , which comes five months before a general election , any liabilities at the end of maturity would accrue to shareholders , and not to the taxpayer .
" it 's only right that whoever made profits through taking high risks over the years , must also be prepared to take the losses , " explained financial expert johannes kahrs , of the social democrats -lrb- spd -rrb- , the coalition partners of chancellor angela merkel 's christian democrats -lrb- cdu -rrb- . "
i think that 's reasonable , it 's a basic economic principle . "
some critics say the scheme is flawed because it is voluntary .
banks are not to be forced to dispose of toxic assets through the soffin national rescue program .
the government insists that " good banks " are interesting for investors and a cleaned up , reliable balance sheet will attract capital .
the draft legislation still has to go before both the lower and upper houses of parliament , the bundestag und bundesrat . wl / pfd / afp / ard send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de financial watchdog chief calls for " bad bank " for toxic assets the head of a watchdog committee of germany 's bank stabilization fund has called for the creation of a " bad bank " that could buy up toxic assets and unblock interbank lending .
-lrb- 11.01.2009 -rrb- us mortgage crisis hits german banks the battered subprime mortgage market in the united states is increasingly impacting the us economy .
now , losses from risky us home loans to borrowers with poor credit histories have swept across the atlantic .
-lrb- 31.07.2007 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic the german cabinet backs plan to relieve the country 's banks of their toxic assets feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inspired minds one to one with clarinettist martin fröst listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
van gaal to become next bayern munich coach -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 31.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de soccer -pipe- 13.05.2009 van gaal to become next bayern munich coach großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : futuer bayern munich head coach louis van gaal bayern munich are set to sign dutch coach louis van gaal ending weeks of speculation over who will be in charge of the bundesliga soccer club next season . bayern munich have confirmed that dutch coach louis van gaal will join the defending bundesliga champions as head coach on a two-year contract as of july 1 .
he is to replace interim coach jupp heynkes , who took over after juergen klinsmann was fired last month .
the coach who has led az alkmaar to their first dutch league title since 1981 , had been bayern 's first choice for the job . other managers under consideration are said to have included inter manager jose mourinho and arsenal 's arsene wenger .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bayern chairman karl-heinz rummenigge munich pleased with choice " we are happy that in louis van gaal we have managed to secure such an experienced and successful coach for bayern munich , " said bayern chairman karl-heinz rummenigge in a statement posted on the club 's website on wednesday .
having steered ajax to the champions league title in 1995 , van gaal , 57 , has a wealth of experience having also led the giants from amsterdam to consecutive dutch titles in 1994 , 1995 and 1996 .
after leading barcelona to back-to-back spanish league titles in 1998 and 1999 , the only blip in an otherwise exceptional career was when he took charge of the netherlands in 2000 .
when the dutch failed to reach the world cup finals in japan and south korea in 2002 , he was replaced by dick advocaat .
van gaal inherits a squad that is level on points with bundesliga leaders wolfsburg with two games remaining in the season .
he is expected to be closely involved in transfer decisions at the end of this season .
in return for alkmaar agreeing to release van gaal before his contract expires , bayern have agreed to play a friendly against alkmaar in the summer of 2010 without charging a fee . nt / pfd , sid / reuters / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live concert hour beethovenfest 2010 listen live dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report bundesliga predictions week ten predictions dw 's experts consulted the spirit world before making their predictions for match day .
scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results at a glance .
dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia moenchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
berlin unveils plan to help rid banks of toxic assets -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 01.04.2011 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de economy -pipe- 13.05.2009 berlin unveils plan to help rid banks of toxic assets großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : banks can now move to clean up their balance sheets the german cabinet has approved a draft law to help rid lenders of an estimated 200 billion euros -lrb- $ 272 billion -rrb- in worthless assets .
banks can swap the assets against guaranteed state loans for up to 20 years . the aim of the " bad bank " plan is to clean up lenders ' balance sheets and restore confidence in the financial sector .
the bill , drafted by finance minister peer steinbrueck , would enable banks to receive state guaranteed loans on commercial terms , in exchange for offloading their troubled assets .
through the government 's financial market stabilization fund , soffin , lenders would be able to swap toxic assets for guaranteed state loans worth 90 percent of the original value of the assets .
lenders would pay an annual fee and be able to " freeze " the assets until better times come along . after a maximum of 20 years , they would have to pay back any losses to the government .
some believe the german banks hold more than 200 billion euros of troubled assets .
" in the interests of the real economy , we are buying time so that the so-called toxic assets can be cleared up , " explained chancellor angela merkel 's chief of staff , thomas de maiziere .
what 's worthless today , may not be tomorrow bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : german finance minister peer steinbrueck says taxpayers will not foot the bill " it 's not clear how toxic these assets really are , " said finance expert , otto salms of the liberal free democrats -lrb- fdp -rrb- .
" some of these assets may well be worth more again once the crisis ends and the economy recovers .
if that 's the case , the banks may end up having to write off much less at a later date than they would if they were forced to liquidate these assets today . "
economic recovery and financial liquidity go hand in hand .
one of the factors that 's been driving the crisis around the world is that banks have stopped lending to each other because they have n't been able to assess the size of the financial black holes on each other 's balance sheets .
berlin hopes that by removing bad holdings from balance sheets banks will start lending to each other again , as well as to businesses and consumers .
this in turn would help kick-start the german economy , the biggest in europe , which is expected to shrink by six percent this year .
shareholders , not taxpayers , to bear the burden under the plan , which comes five months before a general election , any liabilities at the end of maturity would accrue to shareholders , and not to the taxpayer .
" it 's only right that whoever made profits through taking high risks over the years , must also be prepared to take the losses , " explained financial expert johannes kahrs , of the social democrats -lrb- spd -rrb- , the coalition partners of chancellor angela merkel 's christian democrats -lrb- cdu -rrb- . "
i think that 's reasonable , it 's a basic economic principle . "
some critics say the scheme is flawed because it is voluntary .
banks are not to be forced to dispose of toxic assets through the soffin national rescue program .
the government insists that " good banks " are interesting for investors and a cleaned up , reliable balance sheet will attract capital .
the draft legislation still has to go before both the lower and upper houses of parliament , the bundestag und bundesrat . wl / pfd / afp / ard send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de financial watchdog chief calls for " bad bank " for toxic assets the head of a watchdog committee of germany 's bank stabilization fund has called for the creation of a " bad bank " that could buy up toxic assets and unblock interbank lending .
-lrb- 11.01.2009 -rrb- us mortgage crisis hits german banks the battered subprime mortgage market in the united states is increasingly impacting the us economy .
now , losses from risky us home loans to borrowers with poor credit histories have swept across the atlantic .
-lrb- 31.07.2007 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic the german cabinet backs plan to relieve the country 's banks of their toxic assets feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live im focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
berlin unveils plan to help rid banks of toxic assets -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 22.01.2011 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de economy -pipe- 13.05.2009 berlin unveils plan to help rid banks of toxic assets großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : banks can now move to clean up their balance sheets the german cabinet has approved a draft law to help rid lenders of an estimated 200 billion euros -lrb- $ 272 billion -rrb- in worthless assets .
banks can swap the assets against guaranteed state loans for up to 20 years . the aim of the " bad bank " plan is to clean up lenders ' balance sheets and restore confidence in the financial sector .
the bill , drafted by finance minister peer steinbrueck , would enable banks to receive state guaranteed loans on commercial terms , in exchange for offloading their troubled assets .
through the government 's financial market stabilization fund , soffin , lenders would be able to swap toxic assets for guaranteed state loans worth 90 percent of the original value of the assets .
lenders would pay an annual fee and be able to " freeze " the assets until better times come along . after a maximum of 20 years , they would have to pay back any losses to the government .
some believe the german banks hold more than 200 billion euros of troubled assets .
" in the interests of the real economy , we are buying time so that the so-called toxic assets can be cleared up , " explained chancellor angela merkel 's chief of staff , thomas de maiziere .
what 's worthless today , may not be tomorrow bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : german finance minister peer steinbrueck says taxpayers will not foot the bill " it 's not clear how toxic these assets really are , " said finance expert , otto salms of the liberal free democrats -lrb- fdp -rrb- .
" some of these assets may well be worth more again once the crisis ends and the economy recovers .
if that 's the case , the banks may end up having to write off much less at a later date than they would if they were forced to liquidate these assets today . "
economic recovery and financial liquidity go hand in hand .
one of the factors that 's been driving the crisis around the world is that banks have stopped lending to each other because they have n't been able to assess the size of the financial black holes on each other 's balance sheets .
berlin hopes that by removing bad holdings from balance sheets banks will start lending to each other again , as well as to businesses and consumers .
this in turn would help kick-start the german economy , the biggest in europe , which is expected to shrink by six percent this year .
shareholders , not taxpayers , to bear the burden under the plan , which comes five months before a general election , any liabilities at the end of maturity would accrue to shareholders , and not to the taxpayer .
" it 's only right that whoever made profits through taking high risks over the years , must also be prepared to take the losses , " explained financial expert johannes kahrs , of the social democrats -lrb- spd -rrb- , the coalition partners of chancellor angela merkel 's christian democrats -lrb- cdu -rrb- . "
i think that 's reasonable , it 's a basic economic principle . "
some critics say the scheme is flawed because it is voluntary .
banks are not to be forced to dispose of toxic assets through the soffin national rescue program .
the government insists that " good banks " are interesting for investors and a cleaned up , reliable balance sheet will attract capital .
the draft legislation still has to go before both the lower and upper houses of parliament , the bundestag und bundesrat . wl / pfd / afp / ard send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de financial watchdog chief calls for " bad bank " for toxic assets the head of a watchdog committee of germany 's bank stabilization fund has called for the creation of a " bad bank " that could buy up toxic assets and unblock interbank lending .
-lrb- 11.01.2009 -rrb- us mortgage crisis hits german banks the battered subprime mortgage market in the united states is increasingly impacting the us economy .
now , losses from risky us home loans to borrowers with poor credit histories have swept across the atlantic .
-lrb- 31.07.2007 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic the german cabinet backs plan to relieve the country 's banks of their toxic assets feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
berlin unveils plan to help rid banks of toxic assets -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 05.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de economy -pipe- 13.05.2009 berlin unveils plan to help rid banks of toxic assets großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : banks can now move to clean up their balance sheets the german cabinet has approved a draft law to help rid lenders of an estimated 200 billion euros -lrb- $ 272 billion -rrb- in worthless assets .
banks can swap the assets against guaranteed state loans for up to 20 years . the aim of the " bad bank " plan is to clean up lenders ' balance sheets and restore confidence in the financial sector .
the bill , drafted by finance minister peer steinbrueck , would enable banks to receive state guaranteed loans on commercial terms , in exchange for offloading their troubled assets .
through the government 's financial market stabilization fund , soffin , lenders would be able to swap toxic assets for guaranteed state loans worth 90 percent of the original value of the assets .
lenders would pay an annual fee and be able to " freeze " the assets until better times come along . after a maximum of 20 years , they would have to pay back any losses to the government .
some believe the german banks hold more than 200 billion euros of troubled assets .
" in the interests of the real economy , we are buying time so that the so-called toxic assets can be cleared up , " explained chancellor angela merkel 's chief of staff , thomas de maiziere .
what 's worthless today , may not be tomorrow bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : german finance minister peer steinbrueck says taxpayers will not foot the bill " it 's not clear how toxic these assets really are , " said finance expert , otto salms of the liberal free democrats -lrb- fdp -rrb- .
" some of these assets may well be worth more again once the crisis ends and the economy recovers .
if that 's the case , the banks may end up having to write off much less at a later date than they would if they were forced to liquidate these assets today . "
economic recovery and financial liquidity go hand in hand .
one of the factors that 's been driving the crisis around the world is that banks have stopped lending to each other because they have n't been able to assess the size of the financial black holes on each other 's balance sheets .
berlin hopes that by removing bad holdings from balance sheets banks will start lending to each other again , as well as to businesses and consumers .
this in turn would help kick-start the german economy , the biggest in europe , which is expected to shrink by six percent this year .
shareholders , not taxpayers , to bear the burden under the plan , which comes five months before a general election , any liabilities at the end of maturity would accrue to shareholders , and not to the taxpayer .
" it 's only right that whoever made profits through taking high risks over the years , must also be prepared to take the losses , " explained financial expert johannes kahrs , of the social democrats -lrb- spd -rrb- , the coalition partners of chancellor angela merkel 's christian democrats -lrb- cdu -rrb- . "
i think that 's reasonable , it 's a basic economic principle . "
some critics say the scheme is flawed because it is voluntary .
banks are not to be forced to dispose of toxic assets through the soffin national rescue program .
the government insists that " good banks " are interesting for investors and a cleaned up , reliable balance sheet will attract capital .
the draft legislation still has to go before both the lower and upper houses of parliament , the bundestag und bundesrat . wl / pfd / afp / ard send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de financial watchdog chief calls for " bad bank " for toxic assets the head of a watchdog committee of germany 's bank stabilization fund has called for the creation of a " bad bank " that could buy up toxic assets and unblock interbank lending .
-lrb- 11.01.2009 -rrb- us mortgage crisis hits german banks the battered subprime mortgage market in the united states is increasingly impacting the us economy .
now , losses from risky us home loans to borrowers with poor credit histories have swept across the atlantic .
-lrb- 31.07.2007 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic the german cabinet backs plan to relieve the country 's banks of their toxic assets 9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany agrees on bad bank scheme -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 26.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de banking -pipe- 13.05.2009 germany agrees on bad bank scheme großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : steinbrueck wants to reassure voters they wo n't wear the cost of the bail-out the german cabinet has agreed on a plan to clean up toxic assets from bank balance sheets .
in the run-up to the election , the issue has become highly politically charged . the scheme , which forms a key element of berlin 's bid to turn europe 's biggest economy around , would allow banks to park their toxic assets for up to 20 years , in specially created institutions .
banks would receive government backed bonds in return .
finance minister peer steinbrueck said the banks would still be held responsible for the toxic assets and , in the long run , they would bear the cost of transferring and holding the assets .
just five months out from a national election , the issue has proved politically prickly .
politicians are torn between the pressing need to revive germany 's foundering banking sector and burdening taxpayers with a huge bank bailout .
berlin hopes that once the toxic holdings have been removed from banks ' balance sheets , they will begin lending to each other and to businesses and consumers again .
that is meant to jolt the german economy back to life .
economic forecasters predict 6 percent shrinkage in europe 's biggest economy in 2009 . ch / ncy / afp / dpa send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german government steps in to clean up banks ' toxic assets the german government has drawn up a draft plan to clean up toxic assets from banks ' balance sheets , a key part of berlin 's bid to turn around europe 's biggest economy .
-lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- koehler blasts banks for keeping quiet over financial crisis in run up to presidential race , german president horst koehler has hit out at bankers ' greed , but is optimistic that the dark cloud of global financial crisis will have a silver lining .
-lrb- 02.05.2009 -rrb- leaked list reveals german banks have 816 billion euros in toxic assets a german newspaper has published a leaked list from the bafin financial oversight group that shows german banks are weighed down under 816 billion euros in toxic assets .
-lrb- 25.04.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic sweden 's bad bank scheme what is a bad bank ? 9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live global 3000 - the globalization program we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive. diplomacy germany impounds a plane owned by thailand 's crown prince after bangkok fails to pay its debts .
watch the video dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany agrees on bad bank scheme -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 06.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de banking -pipe- 13.05.2009 germany agrees on bad bank scheme großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : steinbrueck wants to reassure voters they wo n't wear the cost of the bail-out the german cabinet has agreed on a plan to clean up toxic assets from bank balance sheets .
in the run-up to the election , the issue has become highly politically charged . the scheme , which forms a key element of berlin 's bid to turn europe 's biggest economy around , would allow banks to park their toxic assets for up to 20 years , in specially created institutions .
banks would receive government backed bonds in return .
finance minister peer steinbrueck said the banks would still be held responsible for the toxic assets and , in the long run , they would bear the cost of transferring and holding the assets .
just five months out from a national election , the issue has proved politically prickly .
politicians are torn between the pressing need to revive germany 's foundering banking sector and burdening taxpayers with a huge bank bailout .
berlin hopes that once the toxic holdings have been removed from banks ' balance sheets , they will begin lending to each other and to businesses and consumers again .
that is meant to jolt the german economy back to life .
economic forecasters predict 6 percent shrinkage in europe 's biggest economy in 2009 . ch / ncy / afp / dpa send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german government steps in to clean up banks ' toxic assets the german government has drawn up a draft plan to clean up toxic assets from banks ' balance sheets , a key part of berlin 's bid to turn around europe 's biggest economy .
-lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- koehler blasts banks for keeping quiet over financial crisis in run up to presidential race , german president horst koehler has hit out at bankers ' greed , but is optimistic that the dark cloud of global financial crisis will have a silver lining .
-lrb- 02.05.2009 -rrb- leaked list reveals german banks have 816 billion euros in toxic assets a german newspaper has published a leaked list from the bafin financial oversight group that shows german banks are weighed down under 816 billion euros in toxic assets .
-lrb- 25.04.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic sweden 's bad bank scheme what is a bad bank ? 9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany agrees on bad bank scheme -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 25.09.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de banking -pipe- 13.05.2009 germany agrees on bad bank scheme großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : steinbrueck wants to reassure voters they wo n't wear the cost of the bail-out the german cabinet has agreed on a plan to clean up toxic assets from bank balance sheets .
in the run-up to the election , the issue has become highly politically charged . the scheme , which forms a key element of berlin 's bid to turn europe 's biggest economy around , would allow banks to park their toxic assets for up to 20 years , in specially created institutions .
banks would receive government backed bonds in return .
finance minister peer steinbrueck said the banks would still be held responsible for the toxic assets and , in the long run , they would bear the cost of transferring and holding the assets .
just five months out from a national election , the issue has proved politically prickly .
politicians are torn between the pressing need to revive germany 's foundering banking sector and burdening taxpayers with a huge bank bailout .
berlin hopes that once the toxic holdings have been removed from banks ' balance sheets , they will begin lending to each other and to businesses and consumers again .
that is meant to jolt the german economy back to life .
economic forecasters predict 6 percent shrinkage in europe 's biggest economy in 2009 . ch / ncy / afp / dpa send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german government steps in to clean up banks ' toxic assets the german government has drawn up a draft plan to clean up toxic assets from banks ' balance sheets , a key part of berlin 's bid to turn around europe 's biggest economy .
-lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- koehler blasts banks for keeping quiet over financial crisis in run up to presidential race , german president horst koehler has hit out at bankers ' greed , but is optimistic that the dark cloud of global financial crisis will have a silver lining .
-lrb- 02.05.2009 -rrb- leaked list reveals german banks have 816 billion euros in toxic assets a german newspaper has published a leaked list from the bafin financial oversight group that shows german banks are weighed down under 816 billion euros in toxic assets .
-lrb- 25.04.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic sweden 's bad bank scheme what is a bad bank ?
feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inside europe listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
sobibor survivor : demjanjuk trial will go down in history -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.10.2010 home news germany europe world from tierra del fuego to tijuana asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de world war ii -pipe- 13.05.2009 sobibor survivor : demjanjuk trial will go down in history großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some 250,000 jews , gypsies and political prisoners were murdered in sobibor 's gas chambers deutsche welle spoke with thomas blatt , one of few to escape from the nazi-run sobibor extermination camp .
he says he does n't care whether john demjanjuk is jailed for working at the camp , just that he tells the truth . thomas blatt was one of the few to survive the sobibor extermination camp in nazi-occupied poland during world war ii .
the 82-year-old is now a key witness in the munich trial of john demjanjuk , who is alleged to have been a guard at sobibor .
deutsche welle : why did you decide to come to germany for this trial ?
thomas blatt : because when i escaped from sobibor , i promised myself that if i survived , i will do everything to tell the story of sobibor .
and that 's what i 'm doing .
and i know that demjanjuk knows a lot , because demjanjuk was in the middle of the holocaust .
and he denies that it is him , that he was not a guard at sobibor , but he was .
i do n't care if demjanjuk is in jail or not .
i do care that he should tell the truth .
and the truth is , that he was a guard at sobibor .
sobibor was not a simple concentration camp .
sobibor was an extermination camp .
at sobibor the guards were simple murderers .
in a concentration camp a guard was a guard , … responsible -lsb- for preventing -rsb- people from running away .
but at sobibor they were simple murderers .
you said that among the guards at sobibor some were sadistic .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : demjanjuk 's wartime identification card is a major piece of evidence against him i said that they were sadistic and that some guards escaped from sobibor .
but demjanjuk did not escape .
he was there all the time with the nazis .
i do n't say that i -lsb- saw -rsb- him for sure .
-lsb- the guards -rsb- were very sadistic .
and we were more afraid of the guards than we were of the germans .
i 'm sure i know that he was a guard .
it is my duty to tell .
he should tell what sobibor was for .
what will be your reaction if there is not enough evidence to find mr. demjanjuk guilty ?
i believe that he will tell the truth , the way it was in sobibor .
and this will be part of history .
this will be -lsb- something -rsb- for the new generation to learn .
because what he has seen , few people have seen .
i strongly believe he will tell the truth .
and later demjanjuk could go free .
for me his testimony is very important , and that 's why i am in munich following demjanjuk 's story .
i am sorry in a way for demjanjuk .
he 's an old man , 89 years old .
he 's sick , he has a family .
so i 'm sorry in a way .
and i think that many people think the same way : he 's an old man , he 's suffered so much .
but i also see the other side of demjanjuk .
i see him as a terrible sadist , a murderer .
he did n't run away from his work .
interview : michael lawton editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de suspected nazi prison camp guard deported to germany the us has deported an alleged former nazi prison camp guard to germany .
jewish leaders hailed john demjanjuk 's deportation , saying they hoped it was n't too late for the 89-year-old to be brought to justice .
-lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- opinion : no statute of limitations on horrors of the holocaust after decades of judicial wrangling , the alleged nazi criminal john demjanjuk is to stand trial in germany .
on tuesday he was flown to munich and brought to a prison awaiting trial .
cornelia rabitz has this commentary : -lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- us seeks to clear path for demjanjuk deportation , again the us government has sought to clear the way to deport alleged former death camp guard john demjanjuk , just days after a us court postponed his deportation to wait for proof that he is fit to travel to germany .
-lrb- 21.04.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic michael lawton talks to raphael gross of the fritz bauer institute for holocaust studies about john demjanjuk nazi war crimes suspect john demjanjuk deported to germany -lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live in focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live pulse listen live life at gitmo dw-tv visits guantanamo bay for a closer look at the infamous detention camp watch the video learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan new web site check out deutsche welle 's new asia page in english .
dw asia online news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's newest media partner latin america take a multimedia journey discover the region and its people © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
sobibor survivor : demjanjuk trial will go down in history -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 11.09.2010 home news germany europe world from tierra del fuego to tijuana asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de world war ii -pipe- 13.05.2009 sobibor survivor : demjanjuk trial will go down in history großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some 250,000 jews , gypsies and political prisoners were murdered in sobibor 's gas chambers deutsche welle spoke with thomas blatt , one of few to escape from the nazi-run sobibor extermination camp .
he says he does n't care whether john demjanjuk is jailed for working at the camp , just that he tells the truth . thomas blatt was one of the few to survive the sobibor extermination camp in nazi-occupied poland during world war ii .
the 82-year-old is now a key witness in the munich trial of john demjanjuk , who is alleged to have been a guard at sobibor .
deutsche welle : why did you decide to come to germany for this trial ?
thomas blatt : because when i escaped from sobibor , i promised myself that if i survived , i will do everything to tell the story of sobibor .
and that 's what i 'm doing .
and i know that demjanjuk knows a lot , because demjanjuk was in the middle of the holocaust .
and he denies that it is him , that he was not a guard at sobibor , but he was .
i do n't care if demjanjuk is in jail or not .
i do care that he should tell the truth .
and the truth is , that he was a guard at sobibor .
sobibor was not a simple concentration camp .
sobibor was an extermination camp .
at sobibor the guards were simple murderers .
in a concentration camp a guard was a guard , … responsible -lsb- for preventing -rsb- people from running away .
but at sobibor they were simple murderers .
you said that among the guards at sobibor some were sadistic .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : demjanjuk 's wartime identification card is a major piece of evidence against him i said that they were sadistic and that some guards escaped from sobibor .
but demjanjuk did not escape .
he was there all the time with the nazis .
i do n't say that i -lsb- saw -rsb- him for sure .
-lsb- the guards -rsb- were very sadistic .
and we were more afraid of the guards than we were of the germans .
i 'm sure i know that he was a guard .
it is my duty to tell .
he should tell what sobibor was for .
what will be your reaction if there is not enough evidence to find mr. demjanjuk guilty ?
i believe that he will tell the truth , the way it was in sobibor .
and this will be part of history .
this will be -lsb- something -rsb- for the new generation to learn .
because what he has seen , few people have seen .
i strongly believe he will tell the truth .
and later demjanjuk could go free .
for me his testimony is very important , and that 's why i am in munich following demjanjuk 's story .
i am sorry in a way for demjanjuk .
he 's an old man , 89 years old .
he 's sick , he has a family .
so i 'm sorry in a way .
and i think that many people think the same way : he 's an old man , he 's suffered so much .
but i also see the other side of demjanjuk .
i see him as a terrible sadist , a murderer .
he did n't run away from his work .
interview : michael lawton editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de suspected nazi prison camp guard deported to germany the us has deported an alleged former nazi prison camp guard to germany .
jewish leaders hailed john demjanjuk 's deportation , saying they hoped it was n't too late for the 89-year-old to be brought to justice .
-lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- opinion : no statute of limitations on horrors of the holocaust after decades of judicial wrangling , the alleged nazi criminal john demjanjuk is to stand trial in germany .
on tuesday he was flown to munich and brought to a prison awaiting trial .
cornelia rabitz has this commentary : -lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- us seeks to clear path for demjanjuk deportation , again the us government has sought to clear the way to deport alleged former death camp guard john demjanjuk , just days after a us court postponed his deportation to wait for proof that he is fit to travel to germany .
-lrb- 21.04.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic michael lawton talks to raphael gross of the fritz bauer institute for holocaust studies about john demjanjuk nazi war crimes suspect john demjanjuk deported to germany -lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live popxport we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live burning books the international community has condemned plans by a florida church to burn copies of the koran .
watch the video afghan elections the us commander in afghanistan , general petraeus , wants more nato troops ahead of elections .
watch the video the aftermath deptuy head of deutsche welle south asia thomas bärthlein talks to asia compact from islamabad .
listen to the interview images from pakistan learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan new web site check out deutsche welle 's new asia page in english .
dw asia online news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's newest media partner latin america take a multimedia journey discover the region and its people © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
sobibor survivor : demjanjuk trial will go down in history -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 23.01.2011 home news germany europe world from tierra del fuego to tijuana asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de world war ii -pipe- 13.05.2009 sobibor survivor : demjanjuk trial will go down in history großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some 250,000 jews , gypsies and political prisoners were murdered in sobibor 's gas chambers deutsche welle spoke with thomas blatt , one of few to escape from the nazi-run sobibor extermination camp .
he says he does n't care whether john demjanjuk is jailed for working at the camp , just that he tells the truth . thomas blatt was one of the few to survive the sobibor extermination camp in nazi-occupied poland during world war ii .
the 82-year-old is now a key witness in the munich trial of john demjanjuk , who is alleged to have been a guard at sobibor .
deutsche welle : why did you decide to come to germany for this trial ?
thomas blatt : because when i escaped from sobibor , i promised myself that if i survived , i will do everything to tell the story of sobibor .
and that 's what i 'm doing .
and i know that demjanjuk knows a lot , because demjanjuk was in the middle of the holocaust .
and he denies that it is him , that he was not a guard at sobibor , but he was .
i do n't care if demjanjuk is in jail or not .
i do care that he should tell the truth .
and the truth is , that he was a guard at sobibor .
sobibor was not a simple concentration camp .
sobibor was an extermination camp .
at sobibor the guards were simple murderers .
in a concentration camp a guard was a guard , … responsible -lsb- for preventing -rsb- people from running away .
but at sobibor they were simple murderers .
you said that among the guards at sobibor some were sadistic .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : demjanjuk 's wartime identification card is a major piece of evidence against him i said that they were sadistic and that some guards escaped from sobibor .
but demjanjuk did not escape .
he was there all the time with the nazis .
i do n't say that i -lsb- saw -rsb- him for sure .
-lsb- the guards -rsb- were very sadistic .
and we were more afraid of the guards than we were of the germans .
i 'm sure i know that he was a guard .
it is my duty to tell .
he should tell what sobibor was for .
what will be your reaction if there is not enough evidence to find mr. demjanjuk guilty ?
i believe that he will tell the truth , the way it was in sobibor .
and this will be part of history .
this will be -lsb- something -rsb- for the new generation to learn .
because what he has seen , few people have seen .
i strongly believe he will tell the truth .
and later demjanjuk could go free .
for me his testimony is very important , and that 's why i am in munich following demjanjuk 's story .
i am sorry in a way for demjanjuk .
he 's an old man , 89 years old .
he 's sick , he has a family .
so i 'm sorry in a way .
and i think that many people think the same way : he 's an old man , he 's suffered so much .
but i also see the other side of demjanjuk .
i see him as a terrible sadist , a murderer .
he did n't run away from his work .
interview : michael lawton editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de suspected nazi prison camp guard deported to germany the us has deported an alleged former nazi prison camp guard to germany .
jewish leaders hailed john demjanjuk 's deportation , saying they hoped it was n't too late for the 89-year-old to be brought to justice .
-lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- opinion : no statute of limitations on horrors of the holocaust after decades of judicial wrangling , the alleged nazi criminal john demjanjuk is to stand trial in germany .
on tuesday he was flown to munich and brought to a prison awaiting trial .
cornelia rabitz has this commentary : -lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- us seeks to clear path for demjanjuk deportation , again the us government has sought to clear the way to deport alleged former death camp guard john demjanjuk , just days after a us court postponed his deportation to wait for proof that he is fit to travel to germany .
-lrb- 21.04.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic michael lawton talks to raphael gross of the fritz bauer institute for holocaust studies about john demjanjuk nazi war crimes suspect john demjanjuk deported to germany -lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan latin america take a multimedia journey discover the region and its people news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's newest media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany agrees on bad bank scheme -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 01.04.2011 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de banking -pipe- 13.05.2009 germany agrees on bad bank scheme großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : steinbrueck wants to reassure voters they wo n't wear the cost of the bail-out the german cabinet has agreed on a plan to clean up toxic assets from bank balance sheets .
in the run-up to the election , the issue has become highly politically charged . the scheme , which forms a key element of berlin 's bid to turn europe 's biggest economy around , would allow banks to park their toxic assets for up to 20 years , in specially created institutions .
banks would receive government backed bonds in return .
finance minister peer steinbrueck said the banks would still be held responsible for the toxic assets and , in the long run , they would bear the cost of transferring and holding the assets .
just five months out from a national election , the issue has proved politically prickly .
politicians are torn between the pressing need to revive germany 's foundering banking sector and burdening taxpayers with a huge bank bailout .
berlin hopes that once the toxic holdings have been removed from banks ' balance sheets , they will begin lending to each other and to businesses and consumers again .
that is meant to jolt the german economy back to life .
economic forecasters predict 6 percent shrinkage in europe 's biggest economy in 2009 . ch / ncy / afp / dpa send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german government steps in to clean up banks ' toxic assets the german government has drawn up a draft plan to clean up toxic assets from banks ' balance sheets , a key part of berlin 's bid to turn around europe 's biggest economy .
-lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- koehler blasts banks for keeping quiet over financial crisis in run up to presidential race , german president horst koehler has hit out at bankers ' greed , but is optimistic that the dark cloud of global financial crisis will have a silver lining .
-lrb- 02.05.2009 -rrb- leaked list reveals german banks have 816 billion euros in toxic assets a german newspaper has published a leaked list from the bafin financial oversight group that shows german banks are weighed down under 816 billion euros in toxic assets .
-lrb- 25.04.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic sweden 's bad bank scheme what is a bad bank ?
feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live im focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany agrees on bad bank scheme -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 15.12.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de banking -pipe- 13.05.2009 germany agrees on bad bank scheme großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : steinbrueck wants to reassure voters they wo n't wear the cost of the bail-out the german cabinet has agreed on a plan to clean up toxic assets from bank balance sheets .
in the run-up to the election , the issue has become highly politically charged . the scheme , which forms a key element of berlin 's bid to turn europe 's biggest economy around , would allow banks to park their toxic assets for up to 20 years , in specially created institutions .
banks would receive government backed bonds in return .
finance minister peer steinbrueck said the banks would still be held responsible for the toxic assets and , in the long run , they would bear the cost of transferring and holding the assets .
just five months out from a national election , the issue has proved politically prickly .
politicians are torn between the pressing need to revive germany 's foundering banking sector and burdening taxpayers with a huge bank bailout .
berlin hopes that once the toxic holdings have been removed from banks ' balance sheets , they will begin lending to each other and to businesses and consumers again .
that is meant to jolt the german economy back to life .
economic forecasters predict 6 percent shrinkage in europe 's biggest economy in 2009 . ch / ncy / afp / dpa send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german government steps in to clean up banks ' toxic assets the german government has drawn up a draft plan to clean up toxic assets from banks ' balance sheets , a key part of berlin 's bid to turn around europe 's biggest economy .
-lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- koehler blasts banks for keeping quiet over financial crisis in run up to presidential race , german president horst koehler has hit out at bankers ' greed , but is optimistic that the dark cloud of global financial crisis will have a silver lining .
-lrb- 02.05.2009 -rrb- leaked list reveals german banks have 816 billion euros in toxic assets a german newspaper has published a leaked list from the bafin financial oversight group that shows german banks are weighed down under 816 billion euros in toxic assets .
-lrb- 25.04.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic sweden 's bad bank scheme what is a bad bank ?
feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live spectrum listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
travel passau is called the three river city , but it is just as famous for its baroque splendor .
passau - baroque facades and vibrant arts watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany agrees on bad bank scheme -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 31.10.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de banking -pipe- 13.05.2009 germany agrees on bad bank scheme großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : steinbrueck wants to reassure voters they wo n't wear the cost of the bail-out the german cabinet has agreed on a plan to clean up toxic assets from bank balance sheets .
in the run-up to the election , the issue has become highly politically charged . the scheme , which forms a key element of berlin 's bid to turn europe 's biggest economy around , would allow banks to park their toxic assets for up to 20 years , in specially created institutions .
banks would receive government backed bonds in return .
finance minister peer steinbrueck said the banks would still be held responsible for the toxic assets and , in the long run , they would bear the cost of transferring and holding the assets .
just five months out from a national election , the issue has proved politically prickly .
politicians are torn between the pressing need to revive germany 's foundering banking sector and burdening taxpayers with a huge bank bailout .
berlin hopes that once the toxic holdings have been removed from banks ' balance sheets , they will begin lending to each other and to businesses and consumers again .
that is meant to jolt the german economy back to life .
economic forecasters predict 6 percent shrinkage in europe 's biggest economy in 2009 . ch / ncy / afp / dpa send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german government steps in to clean up banks ' toxic assets the german government has drawn up a draft plan to clean up toxic assets from banks ' balance sheets , a key part of berlin 's bid to turn around europe 's biggest economy .
-lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- koehler blasts banks for keeping quiet over financial crisis in run up to presidential race , german president horst koehler has hit out at bankers ' greed , but is optimistic that the dark cloud of global financial crisis will have a silver lining .
-lrb- 02.05.2009 -rrb- leaked list reveals german banks have 816 billion euros in toxic assets a german newspaper has published a leaked list from the bafin financial oversight group that shows german banks are weighed down under 816 billion euros in toxic assets .
-lrb- 25.04.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic sweden 's bad bank scheme what is a bad bank ?
feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live in focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live learning by ear listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
french lawmakers to pull the plug on internet pirates -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de internet -pipe- 13.05.2009 french lawmakers to pull the plug on internet pirates großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : sarkozy championed the new legislation france has passed a bill that will let authorities track illegal downloading over the internet and disconnect repeat offenders .
opponents are critical of the law , arguing that access to the web is a fundamental right . the french senate on wednesday overwhelmingly voted into law a controversial measure that will cut off internet access to people who repeatedly download copyrighted music , films or video games without paying .
the vote , which had already passed the lower house by a narrow margin on tuesday , represents a success for president nicolas sarkozy , who championed the groundbreaking law .
the opposition socialists alienated many of their traditional supporters in the arts world by fighting the move .
the legislation aims to protect the revenues of record and film companies and recording artists .
after two warnings pirates will be cut off the tough new laws would punish music download pirates by shutting off their internet access for up to a year .
under the terms of the bill , internet pirates will receive two warnings , but their internet connection will be cut after the third offence .
during the time they are disconnected , they will have to continue paying their internet provider .
the music and film industries in france and abroad have shown wide support for the bill , but consumer groups and the socialist opposition have warned it would be difficult to implement .
opponents have criticized the penalties , and say access to the internet should be a fundamental right .
consumer groups said they feared intrusive monitoring of online activity and warn that innocent users may be unfairly punished if hackers use their accounts to download files .
the new law 's introduction onto the statute books is likely to be delayed by at least a month .
opponents have promised to challenge the legislation in france 's top court . ch / ncy / afp / reuters send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de major german online companies agree to block child porn websites german internet providers have grudgingly agreed to block websites containing child pornography .
critics say their deal with the government wo n't make much of a difference .
-lrb- 17.04.2009 -rrb- german artists defend copyright in google era google might reign as the unchallenged king of german search engines , but a lawsuit over the company 's popular image search feature brings into question the rights of german artists in the internet age .
-lrb- 21.10.2008 -rrb- new data law could benefit music pirates germany 's music industry fears that a new telephone data law could become a carte blanche for internet users , who download tunes illegally .
until now , they 've traced music pirates with the help of phone records .
-lrb- 30.03.2008 -rrb- 9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - news with in depth we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
diplomacy lithuania and austria row after vienna police release an ex-kgb officer wanted for war crimes .
listen to the audio soccer turkish soccer officials meet in geneva after a match-fixing scandal gets dozens arrested .
listen to the audio education british parents are responding to government education cuts by setting up their own schools .
watch the video inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
the rhino mafia where to serve ?
soliders with dual citizenship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
french lawmakers to pull the plug on internet pirates -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 01.12.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de internet -pipe- 13.05.2009 french lawmakers to pull the plug on internet pirates großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : sarkozy championed the new legislation france has passed a bill that will let authorities track illegal downloading over the internet and disconnect repeat offenders .
opponents are critical of the law , arguing that access to the web is a fundamental right . the french senate on wednesday overwhelmingly voted into law a controversial measure that will cut off internet access to people who repeatedly download copyrighted music , films or video games without paying .
the vote , which had already passed the lower house by a narrow margin on tuesday , represents a success for president nicolas sarkozy , who championed the groundbreaking law .
the opposition socialists alienated many of their traditional supporters in the arts world by fighting the move .
the legislation aims to protect the revenues of record and film companies and recording artists .
after two warnings pirates will be cut off the tough new laws would punish music download pirates by shutting off their internet access for up to a year .
under the terms of the bill , internet pirates will receive two warnings , but their internet connection will be cut after the third offence .
during the time they are disconnected , they will have to continue paying their internet provider .
the music and film industries in france and abroad have shown wide support for the bill , but consumer groups and the socialist opposition have warned it would be difficult to implement .
opponents have criticized the penalties , and say access to the internet should be a fundamental right .
consumer groups said they feared intrusive monitoring of online activity and warn that innocent users may be unfairly punished if hackers use their accounts to download files .
the new law 's introduction onto the statute books is likely to be delayed by at least a month .
opponents have promised to challenge the legislation in france 's top court . ch / ncy / afp / reuters send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de major german online companies agree to block child porn websites german internet providers have grudgingly agreed to block websites containing child pornography .
critics say their deal with the government wo n't make much of a difference .
-lrb- 17.04.2009 -rrb- german artists defend copyright in google era google might reign as the unchallenged king of german search engines , but a lawsuit over the company 's popular image search feature brings into question the rights of german artists in the internet age .
-lrb- 21.10.2008 -rrb- new data law could benefit music pirates germany 's music industry fears that a new telephone data law could become a carte blanche for internet users , who download tunes illegally .
until now , they 've traced music pirates with the help of phone records .
-lrb- 30.03.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live global 3000 we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
sobibor survivor : demjanjuk trial will go down in history -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 06.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de world war ii -pipe- 13.05.2009 sobibor survivor : demjanjuk trial will go down in history großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some 250,000 jews , gypsies and political prisoners were murdered in sobibor 's gas chambers deutsche welle spoke with thomas blatt , one of few to escape from the nazi-run sobibor extermination camp .
he says he does n't care whether john demjanjuk is jailed for working at the camp , just that he tells the truth . thomas blatt was one of the few to survive the sobibor extermination camp in nazi-occupied poland during world war ii .
the 82-year-old is now a key witness in the munich trial of john demjanjuk , who is alleged to have been a guard at sobibor .
deutsche welle : why did you decide to come to germany for this trial ?
thomas blatt : because when i escaped from sobibor , i promised myself that if i survived , i will do everything to tell the story of sobibor .
and that 's what i 'm doing .
and i know that demjanjuk knows a lot , because demjanjuk was in the middle of the holocaust .
and he denies that it is him , that he was not a guard at sobibor , but he was .
i do n't care if demjanjuk is in jail or not .
i do care that he should tell the truth .
and the truth is , that he was a guard at sobibor .
sobibor was not a simple concentration camp .
sobibor was an extermination camp .
at sobibor the guards were simple murderers .
in a concentration camp a guard was a guard , … responsible -lsb- for preventing -rsb- people from running away .
but at sobibor they were simple murderers .
you said that among the guards at sobibor some were sadistic .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : demjanjuk 's wartime identification card is a major piece of evidence against him i said that they were sadistic and that some guards escaped from sobibor .
but demjanjuk did not escape .
he was there all the time with the nazis .
i do n't say that i -lsb- saw -rsb- him for sure .
-lsb- the guards -rsb- were very sadistic .
and we were more afraid of the guards than we were of the germans .
i 'm sure i know that he was a guard .
it is my duty to tell .
he should tell what sobibor was for .
what will be your reaction if there is not enough evidence to find mr. demjanjuk guilty ?
i believe that he will tell the truth , the way it was in sobibor .
and this will be part of history .
this will be -lsb- something -rsb- for the new generation to learn .
because what he has seen , few people have seen .
i strongly believe he will tell the truth .
and later demjanjuk could go free .
for me his testimony is very important , and that 's why i am in munich following demjanjuk 's story .
i am sorry in a way for demjanjuk .
he 's an old man , 89 years old .
he 's sick , he has a family .
so i 'm sorry in a way .
and i think that many people think the same way : he 's an old man , he 's suffered so much .
but i also see the other side of demjanjuk .
i see him as a terrible sadist , a murderer .
he did n't run away from his work .
interview : michael lawton editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de suspected nazi prison camp guard deported to germany the us has deported an alleged former nazi prison camp guard to germany .
jewish leaders hailed john demjanjuk 's deportation , saying they hoped it was n't too late for the 89-year-old to be brought to justice .
-lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- opinion : no statute of limitations on horrors of the holocaust after decades of judicial wrangling , the alleged nazi criminal john demjanjuk is to stand trial in germany .
on tuesday he was flown to munich and brought to a prison awaiting trial .
cornelia rabitz has this commentary : -lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- us seeks to clear path for demjanjuk deportation , again the us government has sought to clear the way to deport alleged former death camp guard john demjanjuk , just days after a us court postponed his deportation to wait for proof that he is fit to travel to germany .
-lrb- 21.04.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic michael lawton talks to raphael gross of the fritz bauer institute for holocaust studies about john demjanjuk nazi war crimes suspect john demjanjuk deported to germany -lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- 9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
focus on syria rattling a regime in-depth coverage of the violent protests against the syrian government .
focus on libya libya 's uprising dw-world looks at the turmoil in libya : what it means for tripoli and the rest of the world .
podcast series a former street child in indonesia gives back to kids in need .
listen to the report subscribe to the series on itunes past episodes international conference media representatives around the world gather in bonn to discuss human rights .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
sobibor survivor : demjanjuk trial will go down in history -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 30.11.2010 home news germany europe world from tierra del fuego to tijuana asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de world war ii -pipe- 13.05.2009 sobibor survivor : demjanjuk trial will go down in history großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some 250,000 jews , gypsies and political prisoners were murdered in sobibor 's gas chambers deutsche welle spoke with thomas blatt , one of few to escape from the nazi-run sobibor extermination camp .
he says he does n't care whether john demjanjuk is jailed for working at the camp , just that he tells the truth . thomas blatt was one of the few to survive the sobibor extermination camp in nazi-occupied poland during world war ii .
the 82-year-old is now a key witness in the munich trial of john demjanjuk , who is alleged to have been a guard at sobibor .
deutsche welle : why did you decide to come to germany for this trial ?
thomas blatt : because when i escaped from sobibor , i promised myself that if i survived , i will do everything to tell the story of sobibor .
and that 's what i 'm doing .
and i know that demjanjuk knows a lot , because demjanjuk was in the middle of the holocaust .
and he denies that it is him , that he was not a guard at sobibor , but he was .
i do n't care if demjanjuk is in jail or not .
i do care that he should tell the truth .
and the truth is , that he was a guard at sobibor .
sobibor was not a simple concentration camp .
sobibor was an extermination camp .
at sobibor the guards were simple murderers .
in a concentration camp a guard was a guard , … responsible -lsb- for preventing -rsb- people from running away .
but at sobibor they were simple murderers .
you said that among the guards at sobibor some were sadistic .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : demjanjuk 's wartime identification card is a major piece of evidence against him i said that they were sadistic and that some guards escaped from sobibor .
but demjanjuk did not escape .
he was there all the time with the nazis .
i do n't say that i -lsb- saw -rsb- him for sure .
-lsb- the guards -rsb- were very sadistic .
and we were more afraid of the guards than we were of the germans .
i 'm sure i know that he was a guard .
it is my duty to tell .
he should tell what sobibor was for .
what will be your reaction if there is not enough evidence to find mr. demjanjuk guilty ?
i believe that he will tell the truth , the way it was in sobibor .
and this will be part of history .
this will be -lsb- something -rsb- for the new generation to learn .
because what he has seen , few people have seen .
i strongly believe he will tell the truth .
and later demjanjuk could go free .
for me his testimony is very important , and that 's why i am in munich following demjanjuk 's story .
i am sorry in a way for demjanjuk .
he 's an old man , 89 years old .
he 's sick , he has a family .
so i 'm sorry in a way .
and i think that many people think the same way : he 's an old man , he 's suffered so much .
but i also see the other side of demjanjuk .
i see him as a terrible sadist , a murderer .
he did n't run away from his work .
interview : michael lawton editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de suspected nazi prison camp guard deported to germany the us has deported an alleged former nazi prison camp guard to germany .
jewish leaders hailed john demjanjuk 's deportation , saying they hoped it was n't too late for the 89-year-old to be brought to justice .
-lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- opinion : no statute of limitations on horrors of the holocaust after decades of judicial wrangling , the alleged nazi criminal john demjanjuk is to stand trial in germany .
on tuesday he was flown to munich and brought to a prison awaiting trial .
cornelia rabitz has this commentary : -lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- us seeks to clear path for demjanjuk deportation , again the us government has sought to clear the way to deport alleged former death camp guard john demjanjuk , just days after a us court postponed his deportation to wait for proof that he is fit to travel to germany .
-lrb- 21.04.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic michael lawton talks to raphael gross of the fritz bauer institute for holocaust studies about john demjanjuk nazi war crimes suspect john demjanjuk deported to germany -lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live hits in germany pop from the top 100 listen live learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan new web site check out deutsche welle 's new asia page in english .
dw asia online latin america take a multimedia journey discover the region and its people news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's newest media partner © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
sobibor survivor : demjanjuk trial will go down in history -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 26.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de world war ii -pipe- 13.05.2009 sobibor survivor : demjanjuk trial will go down in history großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some 250,000 jews , gypsies and political prisoners were murdered in sobibor 's gas chambers deutsche welle spoke with thomas blatt , one of few to escape from the nazi-run sobibor extermination camp .
he says he does n't care whether john demjanjuk is jailed for working at the camp , just that he tells the truth . thomas blatt was one of the few to survive the sobibor extermination camp in nazi-occupied poland during world war ii .
the 82-year-old is now a key witness in the munich trial of john demjanjuk , who is alleged to have been a guard at sobibor .
deutsche welle : why did you decide to come to germany for this trial ?
thomas blatt : because when i escaped from sobibor , i promised myself that if i survived , i will do everything to tell the story of sobibor .
and that 's what i 'm doing .
and i know that demjanjuk knows a lot , because demjanjuk was in the middle of the holocaust .
and he denies that it is him , that he was not a guard at sobibor , but he was .
i do n't care if demjanjuk is in jail or not .
i do care that he should tell the truth .
and the truth is , that he was a guard at sobibor .
sobibor was not a simple concentration camp .
sobibor was an extermination camp .
at sobibor the guards were simple murderers .
in a concentration camp a guard was a guard , … responsible -lsb- for preventing -rsb- people from running away .
but at sobibor they were simple murderers .
you said that among the guards at sobibor some were sadistic .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : demjanjuk 's wartime identification card is a major piece of evidence against him i said that they were sadistic and that some guards escaped from sobibor .
but demjanjuk did not escape .
he was there all the time with the nazis .
i do n't say that i -lsb- saw -rsb- him for sure .
-lsb- the guards -rsb- were very sadistic .
and we were more afraid of the guards than we were of the germans .
i 'm sure i know that he was a guard .
it is my duty to tell .
he should tell what sobibor was for .
what will be your reaction if there is not enough evidence to find mr. demjanjuk guilty ?
i believe that he will tell the truth , the way it was in sobibor .
and this will be part of history .
this will be -lsb- something -rsb- for the new generation to learn .
because what he has seen , few people have seen .
i strongly believe he will tell the truth .
and later demjanjuk could go free .
for me his testimony is very important , and that 's why i am in munich following demjanjuk 's story .
i am sorry in a way for demjanjuk .
he 's an old man , 89 years old .
he 's sick , he has a family .
so i 'm sorry in a way .
and i think that many people think the same way : he 's an old man , he 's suffered so much .
but i also see the other side of demjanjuk .
i see him as a terrible sadist , a murderer .
he did n't run away from his work .
interview : michael lawton editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de suspected nazi prison camp guard deported to germany the us has deported an alleged former nazi prison camp guard to germany .
jewish leaders hailed john demjanjuk 's deportation , saying they hoped it was n't too late for the 89-year-old to be brought to justice .
-lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- opinion : no statute of limitations on horrors of the holocaust after decades of judicial wrangling , the alleged nazi criminal john demjanjuk is to stand trial in germany .
on tuesday he was flown to munich and brought to a prison awaiting trial .
cornelia rabitz has this commentary : -lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- us seeks to clear path for demjanjuk deportation , again the us government has sought to clear the way to deport alleged former death camp guard john demjanjuk , just days after a us court postponed his deportation to wait for proof that he is fit to travel to germany .
-lrb- 21.04.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic michael lawton talks to raphael gross of the fritz bauer institute for holocaust studies about john demjanjuk nazi war crimes suspect john demjanjuk deported to germany -lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- 9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
in depth focus on libya dw-world looks at the turmoil in libya : what it means for tripoli and the rest of the world .
podcast series cornelius in liberia changes lives by talking about sex on the radio .
download the report subscribe to the series on itunes past episodes climate change check out deutsche welle 's multimedia coverage of people and projects combating climate change .
the global ideas page learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
berlin unveils plan to help rid banks of toxic assets -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 30.11.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de economy -pipe- 13.05.2009 berlin unveils plan to help rid banks of toxic assets großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : banks can now move to clean up their balance sheets the german cabinet has approved a draft law to help rid lenders of an estimated 200 billion euros -lrb- $ 272 billion -rrb- in worthless assets .
banks can swap the assets against guaranteed state loans for up to 20 years . the aim of the " bad bank " plan is to clean up lenders ' balance sheets and restore confidence in the financial sector .
the bill , drafted by finance minister peer steinbrueck , would enable banks to receive state guaranteed loans on commercial terms , in exchange for offloading their troubled assets .
through the government 's financial market stabilization fund , soffin , lenders would be able to swap toxic assets for guaranteed state loans worth 90 percent of the original value of the assets .
lenders would pay an annual fee and be able to " freeze " the assets until better times come along . after a maximum of 20 years , they would have to pay back any losses to the government .
some believe the german banks hold more than 200 billion euros of troubled assets .
" in the interests of the real economy , we are buying time so that the so-called toxic assets can be cleared up , " explained chancellor angela merkel 's chief of staff , thomas de maiziere .
what 's worthless today , may not be tomorrow bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : german finance minister peer steinbrueck says taxpayers will not foot the bill " it 's not clear how toxic these assets really are , " said finance expert , otto salms of the liberal free democrats -lrb- fdp -rrb- .
" some of these assets may well be worth more again once the crisis ends and the economy recovers .
if that 's the case , the banks may end up having to write off much less at a later date than they would if they were forced to liquidate these assets today . "
economic recovery and financial liquidity go hand in hand .
one of the factors that 's been driving the crisis around the world is that banks have stopped lending to each other because they have n't been able to assess the size of the financial black holes on each other 's balance sheets .
berlin hopes that by removing bad holdings from balance sheets banks will start lending to each other again , as well as to businesses and consumers .
this in turn would help kick-start the german economy , the biggest in europe , which is expected to shrink by six percent this year .
shareholders , not taxpayers , to bear the burden under the plan , which comes five months before a general election , any liabilities at the end of maturity would accrue to shareholders , and not to the taxpayer .
" it 's only right that whoever made profits through taking high risks over the years , must also be prepared to take the losses , " explained financial expert johannes kahrs , of the social democrats -lrb- spd -rrb- , the coalition partners of chancellor angela merkel 's christian democrats -lrb- cdu -rrb- . "
i think that 's reasonable , it 's a basic economic principle . "
some critics say the scheme is flawed because it is voluntary .
banks are not to be forced to dispose of toxic assets through the soffin national rescue program .
the government insists that " good banks " are interesting for investors and a cleaned up , reliable balance sheet will attract capital .
the draft legislation still has to go before both the lower and upper houses of parliament , the bundestag und bundesrat . wl / pfd / afp / ard send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de financial watchdog chief calls for " bad bank " for toxic assets the head of a watchdog committee of germany 's bank stabilization fund has called for the creation of a " bad bank " that could buy up toxic assets and unblock interbank lending .
-lrb- 11.01.2009 -rrb- us mortgage crisis hits german banks the battered subprime mortgage market in the united states is increasingly impacting the us economy .
now , losses from risky us home loans to borrowers with poor credit histories have swept across the atlantic .
-lrb- 31.07.2007 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic the german cabinet backs plan to relieve the country 's banks of their toxic assets feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live kick off !
we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inspired minds one to one with composer brett dean listen live travel passau is called the three river city , but it is just as famous for its baroque splendor .
passau - baroque facades and vibrant arts watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
pope visits west bank , calls for palestinian statehood -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 22.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de religion -pipe- 13.05.2009 pope visits west bank , calls for palestinian statehood großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : palestinians gave an enthusiastic welcome to pope benedict during a visit to bethlehem , pope benedict xvi voiced support for palestinian aspirations of an independent homeland and said he hoped the wall that israel has erected in and around the west bank would come down . speaking in bethlehem after holding a mass in manger square , the pope pressed calls to remove the wall and watch towers that seal bethlehem off from jerusalem .
" towering over us ... is a stark reminder of the stalemate that relations between israelis and palestinians seem to have reached - the wall , " the pope said as he stood in the shadow of israel 's separation wall in the aida refugee camp , which houses refugees from israel 's creation in 1948 .
the pope said it 's " understandable that palestinians feel frustrated , " adding that " their legitimate aspirations for permanent homes , for an independent palestinian state , remain unfulfilled . "
the camp is home to around 5,000 refugees .
bildunterschrift : palestinian children at the aida refugee camp next to a poster of the pope " i have seen , ... overshadowing much of bethlehem , the wall that intrudes into your territories , separating neighbors and dividing families , " the pope said in the town believed to be the birthplace of jesus christ .
" although walls can be easily built , we all know that they do not last forever .
they can be taken down . "
pope lends support to palestinian statehood earlier , thousands greeted the pope 's black limousine as he made his way to manger square where he said mass for about 5,000 people next to the church of the nativity that marks the spot where christians believe jesus was born to mary in a stable .
one of the aims of the pope 's visit is to attempt to preserve a shrinking christian presence in the middle east .
the christian population of bethlehem has decreased dramatically in recent years through emigration . thousands of christians left the town after a palestinian uprising in 2000 and was met by an israeli security clampdown and the start of construction of the barrier .
the pope acknowledged israel 's security concerns as well as palestinian suffering , and urged people not to " resort to acts of violence or terrorism . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : pope benedict xvi outside of the church of the nativity in bethlehem the pope said his heart went out to those caught up in the conflict in gaza , adding that he was praying for an end to the israeli embargo of the gaza strip .
earlier , the pontiff told palestinian president mahmoud abbas that he backed the creation of a palestinian state .
" the holy see supports the right of your people to a sovereign palestinian homeland in the land of your forefathers , secure and at peace with your neighbors , within internationally recognized borders , " he said .
the pope 's comments are the vatican 's strongest and most symbolic public backing yet for an independent palestinian state .
the two-state solution is supported by abbas , arab nations and western powers .
but the new israeli prime minister , benjamin netanyahu , has declined so far to endorse it .
visit dogged by controversy the german-born pope 's week-long trip to the middle east , his first visit to the region , has not been without controversy .
on tuesday , a row erupted over the pope 's membership as a teenager of the hitler youth , as he paid a historic visit to holy sites in jerusalem .
vatican spokesman , federico lombardi , said the pontiff had " never , never , never " belonged to the organization , but later changed his version , saying that he had been a member but his membership was compulsory .
in his own 1997 memoirs , pope benedict had said he had been registered with the hitler youth while he was at a seminary .
the latest row comes on the heels of comments by some israeli leaders complaining that the pope did not go far enough in offering emotion in remarks he made on monday at the yad vashem memorial to the jewish dead of the holocaust . sp , pfd reuters / ap / dpa send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de pope continues balancing act on tour of holy sites in jerusalem pope benedict xvi became the first pope to enter a politically-charged shrine in jerusalem sacred to jews and muslims .
the pope continues to face criticism on the second day of a week-long visit to the region .
-lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- pope continues middle east tour as criticism of yad vashem speech grows pope benedict xvi used a service at jerusalem 's yad vashem memorial to express " deep compassion " for the victims of the holocaust .
but jewish leaders in germany and israel criticized the pope for not going far enough .
-lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- pope seeks to salve holocaust wounds pope benedict xvi is on his first trip to israel .
he has used a speech to seek to heal the wounds created by , among other things , his reinstatement of a holocaust-denying bishop .
-lrb- 11.05.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic pope benedict calls israel 's security barrier in the west bank " tragic " feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
berlin unveils plan to help rid banks of toxic assets -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 26.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de economy -pipe- 13.05.2009 berlin unveils plan to help rid banks of toxic assets großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : banks can now move to clean up their balance sheets the german cabinet has approved a draft law to help rid lenders of an estimated 200 billion euros -lrb- $ 272 billion -rrb- in worthless assets .
banks can swap the assets against guaranteed state loans for up to 20 years . the aim of the " bad bank " plan is to clean up lenders ' balance sheets and restore confidence in the financial sector .
the bill , drafted by finance minister peer steinbrueck , would enable banks to receive state guaranteed loans on commercial terms , in exchange for offloading their troubled assets .
through the government 's financial market stabilization fund , soffin , lenders would be able to swap toxic assets for guaranteed state loans worth 90 percent of the original value of the assets .
lenders would pay an annual fee and be able to " freeze " the assets until better times come along . after a maximum of 20 years , they would have to pay back any losses to the government .
some believe the german banks hold more than 200 billion euros of troubled assets .
" in the interests of the real economy , we are buying time so that the so-called toxic assets can be cleared up , " explained chancellor angela merkel 's chief of staff , thomas de maiziere .
what 's worthless today , may not be tomorrow bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : german finance minister peer steinbrueck says taxpayers will not foot the bill " it 's not clear how toxic these assets really are , " said finance expert , otto salms of the liberal free democrats -lrb- fdp -rrb- .
" some of these assets may well be worth more again once the crisis ends and the economy recovers .
if that 's the case , the banks may end up having to write off much less at a later date than they would if they were forced to liquidate these assets today . "
economic recovery and financial liquidity go hand in hand .
one of the factors that 's been driving the crisis around the world is that banks have stopped lending to each other because they have n't been able to assess the size of the financial black holes on each other 's balance sheets .
berlin hopes that by removing bad holdings from balance sheets banks will start lending to each other again , as well as to businesses and consumers .
this in turn would help kick-start the german economy , the biggest in europe , which is expected to shrink by six percent this year .
shareholders , not taxpayers , to bear the burden under the plan , which comes five months before a general election , any liabilities at the end of maturity would accrue to shareholders , and not to the taxpayer .
" it 's only right that whoever made profits through taking high risks over the years , must also be prepared to take the losses , " explained financial expert johannes kahrs , of the social democrats -lrb- spd -rrb- , the coalition partners of chancellor angela merkel 's christian democrats -lrb- cdu -rrb- . "
i think that 's reasonable , it 's a basic economic principle . "
some critics say the scheme is flawed because it is voluntary .
banks are not to be forced to dispose of toxic assets through the soffin national rescue program .
the government insists that " good banks " are interesting for investors and a cleaned up , reliable balance sheet will attract capital .
the draft legislation still has to go before both the lower and upper houses of parliament , the bundestag und bundesrat . wl / pfd / afp / ard send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de financial watchdog chief calls for " bad bank " for toxic assets the head of a watchdog committee of germany 's bank stabilization fund has called for the creation of a " bad bank " that could buy up toxic assets and unblock interbank lending .
-lrb- 11.01.2009 -rrb- us mortgage crisis hits german banks the battered subprime mortgage market in the united states is increasingly impacting the us economy .
now , losses from risky us home loans to borrowers with poor credit histories have swept across the atlantic .
-lrb- 31.07.2007 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic the german cabinet backs plan to relieve the country 's banks of their toxic assets 9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit wirtschaft we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inspired minds listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive. diplomacy germany impounds a plane owned by thailand 's crown prince after bangkok fails to pay its debts .
watch the video dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
french lawmakers to pull the plug on internet pirates -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.10.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de internet -pipe- 13.05.2009 french lawmakers to pull the plug on internet pirates großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : sarkozy championed the new legislation france has passed a bill that will let authorities track illegal downloading over the internet and disconnect repeat offenders .
opponents are critical of the law , arguing that access to the web is a fundamental right . the french senate on wednesday overwhelmingly voted into law a controversial measure that will cut off internet access to people who repeatedly download copyrighted music , films or video games without paying .
the vote , which had already passed the lower house by a narrow margin on tuesday , represents a success for president nicolas sarkozy , who championed the groundbreaking law .
the opposition socialists alienated many of their traditional supporters in the arts world by fighting the move .
the legislation aims to protect the revenues of record and film companies and recording artists .
after two warnings pirates will be cut off the tough new laws would punish music download pirates by shutting off their internet access for up to a year .
under the terms of the bill , internet pirates will receive two warnings , but their internet connection will be cut after the third offence .
during the time they are disconnected , they will have to continue paying their internet provider .
the music and film industries in france and abroad have shown wide support for the bill , but consumer groups and the socialist opposition have warned it would be difficult to implement .
opponents have criticized the penalties , and say access to the internet should be a fundamental right .
consumer groups said they feared intrusive monitoring of online activity and warn that innocent users may be unfairly punished if hackers use their accounts to download files .
the new law 's introduction onto the statute books is likely to be delayed by at least a month .
opponents have promised to challenge the legislation in france 's top court . ch / ncy / afp / reuters send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de major german online companies agree to block child porn websites german internet providers have grudgingly agreed to block websites containing child pornography .
critics say their deal with the government wo n't make much of a difference .
-lrb- 17.04.2009 -rrb- german artists defend copyright in google era google might reign as the unchallenged king of german search engines , but a lawsuit over the company 's popular image search feature brings into question the rights of german artists in the internet age .
-lrb- 21.10.2008 -rrb- new data law could benefit music pirates germany 's music industry fears that a new telephone data law could become a carte blanche for internet users , who download tunes illegally .
until now , they 've traced music pirates with the help of phone records .
-lrb- 30.03.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live im focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
quo vadis bosnia ?
betancourt book sparks controversy in france technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
wolfsburg , bayern and hertha win matches -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 06.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de bundesliga -pipe- 13.05.2009 wolfsburg , bayern and hertha win matches großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : wolfsburg 's grafite celebrates bundesliga leaders vfl wolfsburg and their two main challengers bayern munich and hertha berlin showed the way on tuesday as they won their midweek league matches . hertha berlin secured a 2-1 victory at cologne .
wolfsburg beat borussia dortmund 3-0 , and bayern munich scored three times in the second half en route to a 3-0 victory over bayer leverkusen .
wolfsburg and bayern are now at the top of the table with 63 points and two games remaining , with wolfsburg just two goals better than their rivals from southern germany .
hertha berlin are a point behind the two , while vfb stuttgart could move to 61 points if they win at schalke 04 on wednesday .
the other game on tuesday saw bottom club karlsruhe sc all but relegated after giving away a 2-0 lead against hanover 96 before finally losing 3-2 .
wolfsburg striking duo grafite and edin dzeko again provided the goals that kept the northern german side at the top .
dzeko opened the scoring in the 14th minute with his 21st goal of the season , before the brazilian grafite added a second goal two minutes after the restart .
dzeko scored his second goal six minutes from the end after being set up by grafite , who heads the goal scorer standings with 24 goals .
dortmund ended the game with ten men after kevin-prince boateng was sent off in the 75th minute - just eight minutes after coming on as a substitute .
wolfsburg coach felix magath said that his side wanted to do well after losing their last game at vfb stuttgart 4-1 , adding , " we went in search of goals from the word go . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : dortmund 's head coach juergen klopp klopp believes dortmund coach juergen klopp said , “ we have the quality and at the end of the day , that will come through . "
he noted that wolfsburg played very well and said , " they deserved to win .
they are a strong side and we certainly do not think that we lost badly .
at the end of the day , the number of goals scored against us , does not matter really . "
bayern wins again in munich , the visitors were denied two penalties in the first half , but could do nothing as luca toni , franck ribery and lukas podolski scored the goals that kept bayern in the hunt for a 22nd german championship .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : jupp heynckes bayern has now won the last three games under new coach jupp heynckes , who took over when juergen klinsmann was sacked .
he changed the team on a few positions and gave germany striker podolski , who spent most of the time on the bench under klinsmann , a starting place .
podolski , who scored one goal and set up the others , saying , " we did well as a team and trained well .
i think you can see that on the field .
the new coach gave me the trust and played me from the beginning and i tried to repay him on the field . "
bayern manager uli hoeness said that his side could have won by a higher score .
" we decided not to tell the players what the other scores were and i still do not think that the championship will be decided on goal difference .
one team will still slip up . "
cicero gave berlin the lead in cologne three minutes from the break , before patrick ebert added a second midway through the second half with a shot that took a wicked deflection .
adil chihi pulled one back for cologne late in the game with his first-ever bundesliga goal .
karlsruhe looked on course for an important victory against hanover after alexander lashvili and lars stindl gave the home side a 2-0 lead after just 32 minutes .
however , sergio pinto and mikael forssell equalized matters before the break and hanno balitsch found a winner for hanover at the end of 64 minutes .
karlsruhe are last in the table with just 23 points and could be relegated on wednesday if three of the four teams directly above them win . av / ai / dpa / ap send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de wolfsburg on course for first-ever bundesliga title wolfsburg remain on target thrashing hoffenheim 4-0 as bayern win their first match in post-klinsmann era with four matches to play this season .
-lrb- 02.05.2009 -rrb- bremen ends hamburg hopes for bundesliga title bremen once again outclassed hamburg when they beat their northern german rivals 2-0 in a bundesliga match on sunday , all but killing off the side 's hopes for a league title .
-lrb- 10.05.2009 -rrb- gomez scores four as stuttgart thrashes wolfsburg mario gomez scored all four goals to take vfb stuttgart to a stunning 4-1 victory over bundesliga leaders vfl wolfsburg on saturday .
defending champions bayern munich won 3-1 against energie cottbus .
-lrb- 09.05.2009 -rrb- 9800 dw-tv europe live kick off !
countdown we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio listen to the latest from german soccer on dw-radio .
sports report scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results .
dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
wolfsburg , bayern and hertha win matches -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 23.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de bundesliga -pipe- 13.05.2009 wolfsburg , bayern and hertha win matches großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : wolfsburg 's grafite celebrates bundesliga leaders vfl wolfsburg and their two main challengers bayern munich and hertha berlin showed the way on tuesday as they won their midweek league matches . hertha berlin secured a 2-1 victory at cologne .
wolfsburg beat borussia dortmund 3-0 , and bayern munich scored three times in the second half en route to a 3-0 victory over bayer leverkusen .
wolfsburg and bayern are now at the top of the table with 63 points and two games remaining , with wolfsburg just two goals better than their rivals from southern germany .
hertha berlin are a point behind the two , while vfb stuttgart could move to 61 points if they win at schalke 04 on wednesday .
the other game on tuesday saw bottom club karlsruhe sc all but relegated after giving away a 2-0 lead against hanover 96 before finally losing 3-2 .
wolfsburg striking duo grafite and edin dzeko again provided the goals that kept the northern german side at the top .
dzeko opened the scoring in the 14th minute with his 21st goal of the season , before the brazilian grafite added a second goal two minutes after the restart .
dzeko scored his second goal six minutes from the end after being set up by grafite , who heads the goal scorer standings with 24 goals .
dortmund ended the game with ten men after kevin-prince boateng was sent off in the 75th minute - just eight minutes after coming on as a substitute .
wolfsburg coach felix magath said that his side wanted to do well after losing their last game at vfb stuttgart 4-1 , adding , " we went in search of goals from the word go . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : dortmund 's head coach juergen klopp klopp believes dortmund coach juergen klopp said , “ we have the quality and at the end of the day , that will come through . "
he noted that wolfsburg played very well and said , " they deserved to win .
they are a strong side and we certainly do not think that we lost badly .
at the end of the day , the number of goals scored against us , does not matter really . "
bayern wins again in munich , the visitors were denied two penalties in the first half , but could do nothing as luca toni , franck ribery and lukas podolski scored the goals that kept bayern in the hunt for a 22nd german championship .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : jupp heynckes bayern has now won the last three games under new coach jupp heynckes , who took over when juergen klinsmann was sacked .
he changed the team on a few positions and gave germany striker podolski , who spent most of the time on the bench under klinsmann , a starting place .
podolski , who scored one goal and set up the others , saying , " we did well as a team and trained well .
i think you can see that on the field .
the new coach gave me the trust and played me from the beginning and i tried to repay him on the field . "
bayern manager uli hoeness said that his side could have won by a higher score .
" we decided not to tell the players what the other scores were and i still do not think that the championship will be decided on goal difference .
one team will still slip up . "
cicero gave berlin the lead in cologne three minutes from the break , before patrick ebert added a second midway through the second half with a shot that took a wicked deflection .
adil chihi pulled one back for cologne late in the game with his first-ever bundesliga goal .
karlsruhe looked on course for an important victory against hanover after alexander lashvili and lars stindl gave the home side a 2-0 lead after just 32 minutes .
however , sergio pinto and mikael forssell equalized matters before the break and hanno balitsch found a winner for hanover at the end of 64 minutes .
karlsruhe are last in the table with just 23 points and could be relegated on wednesday if three of the four teams directly above them win . av / ai / dpa / ap send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de wolfsburg on course for first-ever bundesliga title wolfsburg remain on target thrashing hoffenheim 4-0 as bayern win their first match in post-klinsmann era with four matches to play this season .
-lrb- 02.05.2009 -rrb- bremen ends hamburg hopes for bundesliga title bremen once again outclassed hamburg when they beat their northern german rivals 2-0 in a bundesliga match on sunday , all but killing off the side 's hopes for a league title .
-lrb- 10.05.2009 -rrb- gomez scores four as stuttgart thrashes wolfsburg mario gomez scored all four goals to take vfb stuttgart to a stunning 4-1 victory over bundesliga leaders vfl wolfsburg on saturday .
defending champions bayern munich won 3-1 against energie cottbus .
-lrb- 09.05.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live discover germany we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inside europe listen live bundesliga predictions spot on dw pundits hope to get a little closer to perfection with their match day 19 picks .
dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results at a glance .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia moenchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
wolfsburg , bayern and hertha win matches -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 01.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de bundesliga -pipe- 13.05.2009 wolfsburg , bayern and hertha win matches großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : wolfsburg 's grafite celebrates bundesliga leaders vfl wolfsburg and their two main challengers bayern munich and hertha berlin showed the way on tuesday as they won their midweek league matches . hertha berlin secured a 2-1 victory at cologne .
wolfsburg beat borussia dortmund 3-0 , and bayern munich scored three times in the second half en route to a 3-0 victory over bayer leverkusen .
wolfsburg and bayern are now at the top of the table with 63 points and two games remaining , with wolfsburg just two goals better than their rivals from southern germany .
hertha berlin are a point behind the two , while vfb stuttgart could move to 61 points if they win at schalke 04 on wednesday .
the other game on tuesday saw bottom club karlsruhe sc all but relegated after giving away a 2-0 lead against hanover 96 before finally losing 3-2 .
wolfsburg striking duo grafite and edin dzeko again provided the goals that kept the northern german side at the top .
dzeko opened the scoring in the 14th minute with his 21st goal of the season , before the brazilian grafite added a second goal two minutes after the restart .
dzeko scored his second goal six minutes from the end after being set up by grafite , who heads the goal scorer standings with 24 goals .
dortmund ended the game with ten men after kevin-prince boateng was sent off in the 75th minute - just eight minutes after coming on as a substitute .
wolfsburg coach felix magath said that his side wanted to do well after losing their last game at vfb stuttgart 4-1 , adding , " we went in search of goals from the word go . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : dortmund 's head coach juergen klopp klopp believes dortmund coach juergen klopp said , “ we have the quality and at the end of the day , that will come through . "
he noted that wolfsburg played very well and said , " they deserved to win .
they are a strong side and we certainly do not think that we lost badly .
at the end of the day , the number of goals scored against us , does not matter really . "
bayern wins again in munich , the visitors were denied two penalties in the first half , but could do nothing as luca toni , franck ribery and lukas podolski scored the goals that kept bayern in the hunt for a 22nd german championship .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : jupp heynckes bayern has now won the last three games under new coach jupp heynckes , who took over when juergen klinsmann was sacked .
he changed the team on a few positions and gave germany striker podolski , who spent most of the time on the bench under klinsmann , a starting place .
podolski , who scored one goal and set up the others , saying , " we did well as a team and trained well .
i think you can see that on the field .
the new coach gave me the trust and played me from the beginning and i tried to repay him on the field . "
bayern manager uli hoeness said that his side could have won by a higher score .
" we decided not to tell the players what the other scores were and i still do not think that the championship will be decided on goal difference .
one team will still slip up . "
cicero gave berlin the lead in cologne three minutes from the break , before patrick ebert added a second midway through the second half with a shot that took a wicked deflection .
adil chihi pulled one back for cologne late in the game with his first-ever bundesliga goal .
karlsruhe looked on course for an important victory against hanover after alexander lashvili and lars stindl gave the home side a 2-0 lead after just 32 minutes .
however , sergio pinto and mikael forssell equalized matters before the break and hanno balitsch found a winner for hanover at the end of 64 minutes .
karlsruhe are last in the table with just 23 points and could be relegated on wednesday if three of the four teams directly above them win . av / ai / dpa / ap send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de wolfsburg on course for first-ever bundesliga title wolfsburg remain on target thrashing hoffenheim 4-0 as bayern win their first match in post-klinsmann era with four matches to play this season .
-lrb- 02.05.2009 -rrb- bremen ends hamburg hopes for bundesliga title bremen once again outclassed hamburg when they beat their northern german rivals 2-0 in a bundesliga match on sunday , all but killing off the side 's hopes for a league title .
-lrb- 10.05.2009 -rrb- gomez scores four as stuttgart thrashes wolfsburg mario gomez scored all four goals to take vfb stuttgart to a stunning 4-1 victory over bundesliga leaders vfl wolfsburg on saturday .
defending champions bayern munich won 3-1 against energie cottbus .
-lrb- 09.05.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 dw-tv europe live in focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer on dw-radio .
sports report bundesliga picks playing hurt it 's match day 28 in the bundesliga but dw 's tired pundits wish it was all over already ...
scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia mönchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
pope visits west bank , calls for palestinian statehood -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 06.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de religion -pipe- 13.05.2009 pope visits west bank , calls for palestinian statehood großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : palestinians gave an enthusiastic welcome to pope benedict during a visit to bethlehem , pope benedict xvi voiced support for palestinian aspirations of an independent homeland and said he hoped the wall that israel has erected in and around the west bank would come down . speaking in bethlehem after holding a mass in manger square , the pope pressed calls to remove the wall and watch towers that seal bethlehem off from jerusalem .
" towering over us ... is a stark reminder of the stalemate that relations between israelis and palestinians seem to have reached - the wall , " the pope said as he stood in the shadow of israel 's separation wall in the aida refugee camp , which houses refugees from israel 's creation in 1948 .
the pope said it 's " understandable that palestinians feel frustrated , " adding that " their legitimate aspirations for permanent homes , for an independent palestinian state , remain unfulfilled . "
the camp is home to around 5,000 refugees .
bildunterschrift : palestinian children at the aida refugee camp next to a poster of the pope " i have seen , ... overshadowing much of bethlehem , the wall that intrudes into your territories , separating neighbors and dividing families , " the pope said in the town believed to be the birthplace of jesus christ .
" although walls can be easily built , we all know that they do not last forever .
they can be taken down . "
pope lends support to palestinian statehood earlier , thousands greeted the pope 's black limousine as he made his way to manger square where he said mass for about 5,000 people next to the church of the nativity that marks the spot where christians believe jesus was born to mary in a stable .
one of the aims of the pope 's visit is to attempt to preserve a shrinking christian presence in the middle east .
the christian population of bethlehem has decreased dramatically in recent years through emigration . thousands of christians left the town after a palestinian uprising in 2000 and was met by an israeli security clampdown and the start of construction of the barrier .
the pope acknowledged israel 's security concerns as well as palestinian suffering , and urged people not to " resort to acts of violence or terrorism . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : pope benedict xvi outside of the church of the nativity in bethlehem the pope said his heart went out to those caught up in the conflict in gaza , adding that he was praying for an end to the israeli embargo of the gaza strip .
earlier , the pontiff told palestinian president mahmoud abbas that he backed the creation of a palestinian state .
" the holy see supports the right of your people to a sovereign palestinian homeland in the land of your forefathers , secure and at peace with your neighbors , within internationally recognized borders , " he said .
the pope 's comments are the vatican 's strongest and most symbolic public backing yet for an independent palestinian state .
the two-state solution is supported by abbas , arab nations and western powers .
but the new israeli prime minister , benjamin netanyahu , has declined so far to endorse it .
visit dogged by controversy the german-born pope 's week-long trip to the middle east , his first visit to the region , has not been without controversy .
on tuesday , a row erupted over the pope 's membership as a teenager of the hitler youth , as he paid a historic visit to holy sites in jerusalem .
vatican spokesman , federico lombardi , said the pontiff had " never , never , never " belonged to the organization , but later changed his version , saying that he had been a member but his membership was compulsory .
in his own 1997 memoirs , pope benedict had said he had been registered with the hitler youth while he was at a seminary .
the latest row comes on the heels of comments by some israeli leaders complaining that the pope did not go far enough in offering emotion in remarks he made on monday at the yad vashem memorial to the jewish dead of the holocaust . sp , pfd reuters / ap / dpa send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de pope continues balancing act on tour of holy sites in jerusalem pope benedict xvi became the first pope to enter a politically-charged shrine in jerusalem sacred to jews and muslims .
the pope continues to face criticism on the second day of a week-long visit to the region .
-lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- pope continues middle east tour as criticism of yad vashem speech grows pope benedict xvi used a service at jerusalem 's yad vashem memorial to express " deep compassion " for the victims of the holocaust .
but jewish leaders in germany and israel criticized the pope for not going far enough .
-lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- pope seeks to salve holocaust wounds pope benedict xvi is on his first trip to israel .
he has used a speech to seek to heal the wounds created by , among other things , his reinstatement of a holocaust-denying bishop .
-lrb- 11.05.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic pope benedict calls israel 's security barrier in the west bank " tragic " 9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
wolfsburg , bayern and hertha win matches -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 26.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de bundesliga -pipe- 13.05.2009 wolfsburg , bayern and hertha win matches großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : wolfsburg 's grafite celebrates bundesliga leaders vfl wolfsburg and their two main challengers bayern munich and hertha berlin showed the way on tuesday as they won their midweek league matches . hertha berlin secured a 2-1 victory at cologne .
wolfsburg beat borussia dortmund 3-0 , and bayern munich scored three times in the second half en route to a 3-0 victory over bayer leverkusen .
wolfsburg and bayern are now at the top of the table with 63 points and two games remaining , with wolfsburg just two goals better than their rivals from southern germany .
hertha berlin are a point behind the two , while vfb stuttgart could move to 61 points if they win at schalke 04 on wednesday .
the other game on tuesday saw bottom club karlsruhe sc all but relegated after giving away a 2-0 lead against hanover 96 before finally losing 3-2 .
wolfsburg striking duo grafite and edin dzeko again provided the goals that kept the northern german side at the top .
dzeko opened the scoring in the 14th minute with his 21st goal of the season , before the brazilian grafite added a second goal two minutes after the restart .
dzeko scored his second goal six minutes from the end after being set up by grafite , who heads the goal scorer standings with 24 goals .
dortmund ended the game with ten men after kevin-prince boateng was sent off in the 75th minute - just eight minutes after coming on as a substitute .
wolfsburg coach felix magath said that his side wanted to do well after losing their last game at vfb stuttgart 4-1 , adding , " we went in search of goals from the word go . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : dortmund 's head coach juergen klopp klopp believes dortmund coach juergen klopp said , “ we have the quality and at the end of the day , that will come through . "
he noted that wolfsburg played very well and said , " they deserved to win .
they are a strong side and we certainly do not think that we lost badly .
at the end of the day , the number of goals scored against us , does not matter really . "
bayern wins again in munich , the visitors were denied two penalties in the first half , but could do nothing as luca toni , franck ribery and lukas podolski scored the goals that kept bayern in the hunt for a 22nd german championship .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : jupp heynckes bayern has now won the last three games under new coach jupp heynckes , who took over when juergen klinsmann was sacked .
he changed the team on a few positions and gave germany striker podolski , who spent most of the time on the bench under klinsmann , a starting place .
podolski , who scored one goal and set up the others , saying , " we did well as a team and trained well .
i think you can see that on the field .
the new coach gave me the trust and played me from the beginning and i tried to repay him on the field . "
bayern manager uli hoeness said that his side could have won by a higher score .
" we decided not to tell the players what the other scores were and i still do not think that the championship will be decided on goal difference .
one team will still slip up . "
cicero gave berlin the lead in cologne three minutes from the break , before patrick ebert added a second midway through the second half with a shot that took a wicked deflection .
adil chihi pulled one back for cologne late in the game with his first-ever bundesliga goal .
karlsruhe looked on course for an important victory against hanover after alexander lashvili and lars stindl gave the home side a 2-0 lead after just 32 minutes .
however , sergio pinto and mikael forssell equalized matters before the break and hanno balitsch found a winner for hanover at the end of 64 minutes .
karlsruhe are last in the table with just 23 points and could be relegated on wednesday if three of the four teams directly above them win . av / ai / dpa / ap send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de wolfsburg on course for first-ever bundesliga title wolfsburg remain on target thrashing hoffenheim 4-0 as bayern win their first match in post-klinsmann era with four matches to play this season .
-lrb- 02.05.2009 -rrb- bremen ends hamburg hopes for bundesliga title bremen once again outclassed hamburg when they beat their northern german rivals 2-0 in a bundesliga match on sunday , all but killing off the side 's hopes for a league title .
-lrb- 10.05.2009 -rrb- gomez scores four as stuttgart thrashes wolfsburg mario gomez scored all four goals to take vfb stuttgart to a stunning 4-1 victory over bundesliga leaders vfl wolfsburg on saturday .
defending champions bayern munich won 3-1 against energie cottbus .
-lrb- 09.05.2009 -rrb- 9800 dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit wirtschaft we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inspired minds listen live dw-radio would you listen ?
the best of german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report referees a new high-tech center in spain hopes to help referees improve their skills .
listen to the report media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
pope visits west bank , calls for palestinian statehood -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 26.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de religion -pipe- 13.05.2009 pope visits west bank , calls for palestinian statehood großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : palestinians gave an enthusiastic welcome to pope benedict during a visit to bethlehem , pope benedict xvi voiced support for palestinian aspirations of an independent homeland and said he hoped the wall that israel has erected in and around the west bank would come down . speaking in bethlehem after holding a mass in manger square , the pope pressed calls to remove the wall and watch towers that seal bethlehem off from jerusalem .
" towering over us ... is a stark reminder of the stalemate that relations between israelis and palestinians seem to have reached - the wall , " the pope said as he stood in the shadow of israel 's separation wall in the aida refugee camp , which houses refugees from israel 's creation in 1948 .
the pope said it 's " understandable that palestinians feel frustrated , " adding that " their legitimate aspirations for permanent homes , for an independent palestinian state , remain unfulfilled . "
the camp is home to around 5,000 refugees .
bildunterschrift : palestinian children at the aida refugee camp next to a poster of the pope " i have seen , ... overshadowing much of bethlehem , the wall that intrudes into your territories , separating neighbors and dividing families , " the pope said in the town believed to be the birthplace of jesus christ .
" although walls can be easily built , we all know that they do not last forever .
they can be taken down . "
pope lends support to palestinian statehood earlier , thousands greeted the pope 's black limousine as he made his way to manger square where he said mass for about 5,000 people next to the church of the nativity that marks the spot where christians believe jesus was born to mary in a stable .
one of the aims of the pope 's visit is to attempt to preserve a shrinking christian presence in the middle east .
the christian population of bethlehem has decreased dramatically in recent years through emigration . thousands of christians left the town after a palestinian uprising in 2000 and was met by an israeli security clampdown and the start of construction of the barrier .
the pope acknowledged israel 's security concerns as well as palestinian suffering , and urged people not to " resort to acts of violence or terrorism . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : pope benedict xvi outside of the church of the nativity in bethlehem the pope said his heart went out to those caught up in the conflict in gaza , adding that he was praying for an end to the israeli embargo of the gaza strip .
earlier , the pontiff told palestinian president mahmoud abbas that he backed the creation of a palestinian state .
" the holy see supports the right of your people to a sovereign palestinian homeland in the land of your forefathers , secure and at peace with your neighbors , within internationally recognized borders , " he said .
the pope 's comments are the vatican 's strongest and most symbolic public backing yet for an independent palestinian state .
the two-state solution is supported by abbas , arab nations and western powers .
but the new israeli prime minister , benjamin netanyahu , has declined so far to endorse it .
visit dogged by controversy the german-born pope 's week-long trip to the middle east , his first visit to the region , has not been without controversy .
on tuesday , a row erupted over the pope 's membership as a teenager of the hitler youth , as he paid a historic visit to holy sites in jerusalem .
vatican spokesman , federico lombardi , said the pontiff had " never , never , never " belonged to the organization , but later changed his version , saying that he had been a member but his membership was compulsory .
in his own 1997 memoirs , pope benedict had said he had been registered with the hitler youth while he was at a seminary .
the latest row comes on the heels of comments by some israeli leaders complaining that the pope did not go far enough in offering emotion in remarks he made on monday at the yad vashem memorial to the jewish dead of the holocaust . sp , pfd reuters / ap / dpa send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de pope continues balancing act on tour of holy sites in jerusalem pope benedict xvi became the first pope to enter a politically-charged shrine in jerusalem sacred to jews and muslims .
the pope continues to face criticism on the second day of a week-long visit to the region .
-lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- pope continues middle east tour as criticism of yad vashem speech grows pope benedict xvi used a service at jerusalem 's yad vashem memorial to express " deep compassion " for the victims of the holocaust .
but jewish leaders in germany and israel criticized the pope for not going far enough .
-lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- pope seeks to salve holocaust wounds pope benedict xvi is on his first trip to israel .
he has used a speech to seek to heal the wounds created by , among other things , his reinstatement of a holocaust-denying bishop .
-lrb- 11.05.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic pope benedict calls israel 's security barrier in the west bank " tragic " 9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
wolfsburg , bayern and hertha win matches -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 31.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de bundesliga -pipe- 13.05.2009 wolfsburg , bayern and hertha win matches großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : wolfsburg 's grafite celebrates bundesliga leaders vfl wolfsburg and their two main challengers bayern munich and hertha berlin showed the way on tuesday as they won their midweek league matches . hertha berlin secured a 2-1 victory at cologne .
wolfsburg beat borussia dortmund 3-0 , and bayern munich scored three times in the second half en route to a 3-0 victory over bayer leverkusen .
wolfsburg and bayern are now at the top of the table with 63 points and two games remaining , with wolfsburg just two goals better than their rivals from southern germany .
hertha berlin are a point behind the two , while vfb stuttgart could move to 61 points if they win at schalke 04 on wednesday .
the other game on tuesday saw bottom club karlsruhe sc all but relegated after giving away a 2-0 lead against hanover 96 before finally losing 3-2 .
wolfsburg striking duo grafite and edin dzeko again provided the goals that kept the northern german side at the top .
dzeko opened the scoring in the 14th minute with his 21st goal of the season , before the brazilian grafite added a second goal two minutes after the restart .
dzeko scored his second goal six minutes from the end after being set up by grafite , who heads the goal scorer standings with 24 goals .
dortmund ended the game with ten men after kevin-prince boateng was sent off in the 75th minute - just eight minutes after coming on as a substitute .
wolfsburg coach felix magath said that his side wanted to do well after losing their last game at vfb stuttgart 4-1 , adding , " we went in search of goals from the word go . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : dortmund 's head coach juergen klopp klopp believes dortmund coach juergen klopp said , “ we have the quality and at the end of the day , that will come through . "
he noted that wolfsburg played very well and said , " they deserved to win .
they are a strong side and we certainly do not think that we lost badly .
at the end of the day , the number of goals scored against us , does not matter really . "
bayern wins again in munich , the visitors were denied two penalties in the first half , but could do nothing as luca toni , franck ribery and lukas podolski scored the goals that kept bayern in the hunt for a 22nd german championship .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : jupp heynckes bayern has now won the last three games under new coach jupp heynckes , who took over when juergen klinsmann was sacked .
he changed the team on a few positions and gave germany striker podolski , who spent most of the time on the bench under klinsmann , a starting place .
podolski , who scored one goal and set up the others , saying , " we did well as a team and trained well .
i think you can see that on the field .
the new coach gave me the trust and played me from the beginning and i tried to repay him on the field . "
bayern manager uli hoeness said that his side could have won by a higher score .
" we decided not to tell the players what the other scores were and i still do not think that the championship will be decided on goal difference .
one team will still slip up . "
cicero gave berlin the lead in cologne three minutes from the break , before patrick ebert added a second midway through the second half with a shot that took a wicked deflection .
adil chihi pulled one back for cologne late in the game with his first-ever bundesliga goal .
karlsruhe looked on course for an important victory against hanover after alexander lashvili and lars stindl gave the home side a 2-0 lead after just 32 minutes .
however , sergio pinto and mikael forssell equalized matters before the break and hanno balitsch found a winner for hanover at the end of 64 minutes .
karlsruhe are last in the table with just 23 points and could be relegated on wednesday if three of the four teams directly above them win . av / ai / dpa / ap send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de wolfsburg on course for first-ever bundesliga title wolfsburg remain on target thrashing hoffenheim 4-0 as bayern win their first match in post-klinsmann era with four matches to play this season .
-lrb- 02.05.2009 -rrb- bremen ends hamburg hopes for bundesliga title bremen once again outclassed hamburg when they beat their northern german rivals 2-0 in a bundesliga match on sunday , all but killing off the side 's hopes for a league title .
-lrb- 10.05.2009 -rrb- gomez scores four as stuttgart thrashes wolfsburg mario gomez scored all four goals to take vfb stuttgart to a stunning 4-1 victory over bundesliga leaders vfl wolfsburg on saturday .
defending champions bayern munich won 3-1 against energie cottbus .
-lrb- 09.05.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live living in germany listen live dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report bundesliga predictions week ten predictions dw 's experts consulted the spirit world before making their predictions for match day .
scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results at a glance .
dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia moenchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
wolfsburg , bayern and hertha win matches -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 21.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de bundesliga -pipe- 13.05.2009 wolfsburg , bayern and hertha win matches großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : wolfsburg 's grafite celebrates bundesliga leaders vfl wolfsburg and their two main challengers bayern munich and hertha berlin showed the way on tuesday as they won their midweek league matches . hertha berlin secured a 2-1 victory at cologne .
wolfsburg beat borussia dortmund 3-0 , and bayern munich scored three times in the second half en route to a 3-0 victory over bayer leverkusen .
wolfsburg and bayern are now at the top of the table with 63 points and two games remaining , with wolfsburg just two goals better than their rivals from southern germany .
hertha berlin are a point behind the two , while vfb stuttgart could move to 61 points if they win at schalke 04 on wednesday .
the other game on tuesday saw bottom club karlsruhe sc all but relegated after giving away a 2-0 lead against hanover 96 before finally losing 3-2 .
wolfsburg striking duo grafite and edin dzeko again provided the goals that kept the northern german side at the top .
dzeko opened the scoring in the 14th minute with his 21st goal of the season , before the brazilian grafite added a second goal two minutes after the restart .
dzeko scored his second goal six minutes from the end after being set up by grafite , who heads the goal scorer standings with 24 goals .
dortmund ended the game with ten men after kevin-prince boateng was sent off in the 75th minute - just eight minutes after coming on as a substitute .
wolfsburg coach felix magath said that his side wanted to do well after losing their last game at vfb stuttgart 4-1 , adding , " we went in search of goals from the word go . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : dortmund 's head coach juergen klopp klopp believes dortmund coach juergen klopp said , “ we have the quality and at the end of the day , that will come through . "
he noted that wolfsburg played very well and said , " they deserved to win .
they are a strong side and we certainly do not think that we lost badly .
at the end of the day , the number of goals scored against us , does not matter really . "
bayern wins again in munich , the visitors were denied two penalties in the first half , but could do nothing as luca toni , franck ribery and lukas podolski scored the goals that kept bayern in the hunt for a 22nd german championship .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : jupp heynckes bayern has now won the last three games under new coach jupp heynckes , who took over when juergen klinsmann was sacked .
he changed the team on a few positions and gave germany striker podolski , who spent most of the time on the bench under klinsmann , a starting place .
podolski , who scored one goal and set up the others , saying , " we did well as a team and trained well .
i think you can see that on the field .
the new coach gave me the trust and played me from the beginning and i tried to repay him on the field . "
bayern manager uli hoeness said that his side could have won by a higher score .
" we decided not to tell the players what the other scores were and i still do not think that the championship will be decided on goal difference .
one team will still slip up . "
cicero gave berlin the lead in cologne three minutes from the break , before patrick ebert added a second midway through the second half with a shot that took a wicked deflection .
adil chihi pulled one back for cologne late in the game with his first-ever bundesliga goal .
karlsruhe looked on course for an important victory against hanover after alexander lashvili and lars stindl gave the home side a 2-0 lead after just 32 minutes .
however , sergio pinto and mikael forssell equalized matters before the break and hanno balitsch found a winner for hanover at the end of 64 minutes .
karlsruhe are last in the table with just 23 points and could be relegated on wednesday if three of the four teams directly above them win . av / ai / dpa / ap send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de wolfsburg on course for first-ever bundesliga title wolfsburg remain on target thrashing hoffenheim 4-0 as bayern win their first match in post-klinsmann era with four matches to play this season .
-lrb- 02.05.2009 -rrb- bremen ends hamburg hopes for bundesliga title bremen once again outclassed hamburg when they beat their northern german rivals 2-0 in a bundesliga match on sunday , all but killing off the side 's hopes for a league title .
-lrb- 10.05.2009 -rrb- gomez scores four as stuttgart thrashes wolfsburg mario gomez scored all four goals to take vfb stuttgart to a stunning 4-1 victory over bundesliga leaders vfl wolfsburg on saturday .
defending champions bayern munich won 3-1 against energie cottbus .
-lrb- 09.05.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results at a glance .
dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia moenchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
french lawmakers to pull the plug on internet pirates -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 07.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de internet -pipe- 13.05.2009 french lawmakers to pull the plug on internet pirates großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : sarkozy championed the new legislation france has passed a bill that will let authorities track illegal downloading over the internet and disconnect repeat offenders .
opponents are critical of the law , arguing that access to the web is a fundamental right . the french senate on wednesday overwhelmingly voted into law a controversial measure that will cut off internet access to people who repeatedly download copyrighted music , films or video games without paying .
the vote , which had already passed the lower house by a narrow margin on tuesday , represents a success for president nicolas sarkozy , who championed the groundbreaking law .
the opposition socialists alienated many of their traditional supporters in the arts world by fighting the move .
the legislation aims to protect the revenues of record and film companies and recording artists .
after two warnings pirates will be cut off the tough new laws would punish music download pirates by shutting off their internet access for up to a year .
under the terms of the bill , internet pirates will receive two warnings , but their internet connection will be cut after the third offence .
during the time they are disconnected , they will have to continue paying their internet provider .
the music and film industries in france and abroad have shown wide support for the bill , but consumer groups and the socialist opposition have warned it would be difficult to implement .
opponents have criticized the penalties , and say access to the internet should be a fundamental right .
consumer groups said they feared intrusive monitoring of online activity and warn that innocent users may be unfairly punished if hackers use their accounts to download files .
the new law 's introduction onto the statute books is likely to be delayed by at least a month .
opponents have promised to challenge the legislation in france 's top court . ch / ncy / afp / reuters send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de major german online companies agree to block child porn websites german internet providers have grudgingly agreed to block websites containing child pornography .
critics say their deal with the government wo n't make much of a difference .
-lrb- 17.04.2009 -rrb- german artists defend copyright in google era google might reign as the unchallenged king of german search engines , but a lawsuit over the company 's popular image search feature brings into question the rights of german artists in the internet age .
-lrb- 21.10.2008 -rrb- new data law could benefit music pirates germany 's music industry fears that a new telephone data law could become a carte blanche for internet users , who download tunes illegally .
until now , they 've traced music pirates with the help of phone records .
-lrb- 30.03.2008 -rrb- 9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live popxport we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live european business week finance , flowers , and fame listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
terrorism europeans give mostly positive reactions to the killing of osama bin laden .
listen to the audio bundesliga near the end dw sports pundits have just two weeks left to hit the jackpot with their picks .
here goes nothing .
rescued one year after greece was bailed out by the eu and imf , debt problems still persist .
watch the video poptastic sweden 's past success with the eurovision song contest has given it high expectations .
listen to the audio postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
french burqa ban fits secular ideals is berlusconi giving italy a bad name ?
a dubious record for belgium inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
van gaal to become next bayern munich coach -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 21.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de soccer -pipe- 13.05.2009 van gaal to become next bayern munich coach großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : futuer bayern munich head coach louis van gaal bayern munich are set to sign dutch coach louis van gaal ending weeks of speculation over who will be in charge of the bundesliga soccer club next season . bayern munich have confirmed that dutch coach louis van gaal will join the defending bundesliga champions as head coach on a two-year contract as of july 1 .
he is to replace interim coach jupp heynkes , who took over after juergen klinsmann was fired last month .
the coach who has led az alkmaar to their first dutch league title since 1981 , had been bayern 's first choice for the job . other managers under consideration are said to have included inter manager jose mourinho and arsenal 's arsene wenger .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bayern chairman karl-heinz rummenigge munich pleased with choice " we are happy that in louis van gaal we have managed to secure such an experienced and successful coach for bayern munich , " said bayern chairman karl-heinz rummenigge in a statement posted on the club 's website on wednesday .
having steered ajax to the champions league title in 1995 , van gaal , 57 , has a wealth of experience having also led the giants from amsterdam to consecutive dutch titles in 1994 , 1995 and 1996 .
after leading barcelona to back-to-back spanish league titles in 1998 and 1999 , the only blip in an otherwise exceptional career was when he took charge of the netherlands in 2000 .
when the dutch failed to reach the world cup finals in japan and south korea in 2002 , he was replaced by dick advocaat .
van gaal inherits a squad that is level on points with bundesliga leaders wolfsburg with two games remaining in the season .
he is expected to be closely involved in transfer decisions at the end of this season .
in return for alkmaar agreeing to release van gaal before his contract expires , bayern have agreed to play a friendly against alkmaar in the summer of 2010 without charging a fee . nt / pfd , sid / reuters / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 dw-tv europe live im focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live living in germany listen live dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results at a glance .
dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia moenchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
van gaal to become next bayern munich coach -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 16.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de soccer -pipe- 13.05.2009 van gaal to become next bayern munich coach großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : futuer bayern munich head coach louis van gaal bayern munich are set to sign dutch coach louis van gaal ending weeks of speculation over who will be in charge of the bundesliga soccer club next season . bayern munich have confirmed that dutch coach louis van gaal will join the defending bundesliga champions as head coach on a two-year contract as of july 1 .
he is to replace interim coach jupp heynkes , who took over after juergen klinsmann was fired last month .
the coach who has led az alkmaar to their first dutch league title since 1981 , had been bayern 's first choice for the job . other managers under consideration are said to have included inter manager jose mourinho and arsenal 's arsene wenger .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bayern chairman karl-heinz rummenigge munich pleased with choice " we are happy that in louis van gaal we have managed to secure such an experienced and successful coach for bayern munich , " said bayern chairman karl-heinz rummenigge in a statement posted on the club 's website on wednesday .
having steered ajax to the champions league title in 1995 , van gaal , 57 , has a wealth of experience having also led the giants from amsterdam to consecutive dutch titles in 1994 , 1995 and 1996 .
after leading barcelona to back-to-back spanish league titles in 1998 and 1999 , the only blip in an otherwise exceptional career was when he took charge of the netherlands in 2000 .
when the dutch failed to reach the world cup finals in japan and south korea in 2002 , he was replaced by dick advocaat .
van gaal inherits a squad that is level on points with bundesliga leaders wolfsburg with two games remaining in the season .
he is expected to be closely involved in transfer decisions at the end of this season .
in return for alkmaar agreeing to release van gaal before his contract expires , bayern have agreed to play a friendly against alkmaar in the summer of 2010 without charging a fee . nt / pfd , sid / reuters / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 dw-tv europe live im focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report high scorer freiburg 's papiss demba cisse opens up to dw-tv 's bundesliga kick off ! about his goalscoring ways .
watch the report scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results at a glance .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia moenchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
italian suspect in german mob killings to be extradited to italy -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de crime -pipe- 13.05.2009 italian suspect in german mob killings to be extradited to italy großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : strangio has been top of the most-wanted lists both in germany and in italy giovanni strangio , an italian-born top suspect in a 2007 mafia shootout in germany , is to be extradited to italy , not germany , a dutch court ruled on wednesday . judge fred salomon said strangio , who was arrested in march in the netherlands , would be handed over to italian authorities because italy 's claim to the suspect was stronger than germany 's .
" the italian -lrb- extradition -rrb- request enjoys priority , " salomon said as he handed down the ruling in an amsterdam court . strangio , 30 , is an alleged leading member of the notorious southern italian mafia ' ndrangheta and one of the most wanted people in germany and italy .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the six victims in the duisburg mafia killings were shot in their cars he is suspected of being the ringleader of a shootout that left six rival clan members dead outside a pizzeria in duisburg , western germany , in august 2007 .
germany still wants strangio public prosecutors in duisburg had been trying to get strangio extradited to germany to try him in a local court .
but in recent weeks , it was widely expected that the dutch court would rule in favor of italy .
prosecutors in duisburg have agreed that strangio should be taken first to italy , spokesman detlef nowotsch said .
" we are stepping back for the time being , " nowotsch said .
" but that does n't mean that we do n't want strangio , " he added .
italy 's case for strangio stronger , judge says on wednesday , salomon said italy 's reasons for wanting to try strangio on home soil were more compelling than germany 's .
the judge said the german killings had been the result of clashes between rival clans in the italian town of san luca .
" therefore the relation with italy is bigger than the relation with duisburg where the crime took place , " salomon said .
the judge also pointed out that italy was seeking to prosecute strangio not only for the 2007 killings , but also for membership of a criminal organization .
" furthermore , all the victims had italian nationality , " he said .
strangio is to be transferred to italian custody from his dutch prison in the next 10 days .
killings draw attention to ' ndrangheta mafia the execution-style shootings in duisburg , which grabbed headlines in germany , stemmed from a feud between two rival clans .
the bloody crime drew international attention to the ' ndrangheta , a crime syndicate based in the southern italian region of calabria .
witnesses said they saw two attackers fire about 70 bullets at the six victims , aged 16 to 39 , as they were sitting in their cars after leaving the da bruno restaurant in the industrial city .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the killings outside the da bruno restaurant in duisburg sent shockwaves through germany the duisburg hit was believed to have been revenge for the 2006 christmas-time killing of maria strangio , a cousin of giovanni strangio and the wife of the head of the nirta-strangio clan , giovanni nirta , and the wounding of her son .
the battle between the rival clans has left 16 people dead since 1991 .
in march , an italian court jailed 31 people for the duisburg massacre , one of them for 13 years .
italy 's eurispes social studies institute has estimated ' ndrangheta 's turnover from trafficking in drugs and arms , prostitution and extortion in 2007 at 44 billion euros -lrb- $ 65 billion -rrb- .
strangio was arrested in march in the dutch town of diemen , after a lengthy probe involving telephone wire tapping , surveillance and close coordination between dutch , german and italian police . sp / pfd dpa / afp / reuters send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de dutch police arrest top suspect in duisburg mafia massacre dutch police have arrested an italian man named by authorities as the main suspect for the 2007 murder of six men outside a duisburg restaurant .
the man 's brother-in-law was also arrested during the operation .
-lrb- 13.03.2009 -rrb- police nab mafia boss tied to duisburg killings a suspected mafia boss who was implicated in the execution-style killings of six members of his clan in duisburg , germany , in 2007 , was finally tracked down in italy .
-lrb- 16.10.2008 -rrb- police arrest mafia boss with ties to duisburg massacre italian police arrested a wanted calabrian mafia boss who is the brother-in-law of a chief suspect in the august 2007 killings of six italians in duisburg , news reports said on thursday , aug .
7 .
-lrb- 07.08.2008 -rrb- 9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit tagesthema we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
diplomacy lithuania and austria row after vienna police release an ex-kgb officer wanted for war crimes .
listen to the audio soccer turkish soccer officials meet in geneva after a match-fixing scandal gets dozens arrested .
listen to the audio education british parents are responding to government education cuts by setting up their own schools .
watch the video inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
the rhino mafia where to serve ?
soliders with dual citizenship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
italian suspect in german mob killings to be extradited to italy -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 01.12.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de crime -pipe- 13.05.2009 italian suspect in german mob killings to be extradited to italy großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : strangio has been top of the most-wanted lists both in germany and in italy giovanni strangio , an italian-born top suspect in a 2007 mafia shootout in germany , is to be extradited to italy , not germany , a dutch court ruled on wednesday . judge fred salomon said strangio , who was arrested in march in the netherlands , would be handed over to italian authorities because italy 's claim to the suspect was stronger than germany 's .
" the italian -lrb- extradition -rrb- request enjoys priority , " salomon said as he handed down the ruling in an amsterdam court . strangio , 30 , is an alleged leading member of the notorious southern italian mafia ' ndrangheta and one of the most wanted people in germany and italy .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the six victims in the duisburg mafia killings were shot in their cars he is suspected of being the ringleader of a shootout that left six rival clan members dead outside a pizzeria in duisburg , western germany , in august 2007 .
germany still wants strangio public prosecutors in duisburg had been trying to get strangio extradited to germany to try him in a local court .
but in recent weeks , it was widely expected that the dutch court would rule in favor of italy .
prosecutors in duisburg have agreed that strangio should be taken first to italy , spokesman detlef nowotsch said .
" we are stepping back for the time being , " nowotsch said .
" but that does n't mean that we do n't want strangio , " he added .
italy 's case for strangio stronger , judge says on wednesday , salomon said italy 's reasons for wanting to try strangio on home soil were more compelling than germany 's .
the judge said the german killings had been the result of clashes between rival clans in the italian town of san luca .
" therefore the relation with italy is bigger than the relation with duisburg where the crime took place , " salomon said .
the judge also pointed out that italy was seeking to prosecute strangio not only for the 2007 killings , but also for membership of a criminal organization .
" furthermore , all the victims had italian nationality , " he said .
strangio is to be transferred to italian custody from his dutch prison in the next 10 days .
killings draw attention to ' ndrangheta mafia the execution-style shootings in duisburg , which grabbed headlines in germany , stemmed from a feud between two rival clans .
the bloody crime drew international attention to the ' ndrangheta , a crime syndicate based in the southern italian region of calabria .
witnesses said they saw two attackers fire about 70 bullets at the six victims , aged 16 to 39 , as they were sitting in their cars after leaving the da bruno restaurant in the industrial city .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the killings outside the da bruno restaurant in duisburg sent shockwaves through germany the duisburg hit was believed to have been revenge for the 2006 christmas-time killing of maria strangio , a cousin of giovanni strangio and the wife of the head of the nirta-strangio clan , giovanni nirta , and the wounding of her son .
the battle between the rival clans has left 16 people dead since 1991 .
in march , an italian court jailed 31 people for the duisburg massacre , one of them for 13 years .
italy 's eurispes social studies institute has estimated ' ndrangheta 's turnover from trafficking in drugs and arms , prostitution and extortion in 2007 at 44 billion euros -lrb- $ 65 billion -rrb- .
strangio was arrested in march in the dutch town of diemen , after a lengthy probe involving telephone wire tapping , surveillance and close coordination between dutch , german and italian police . sp / pfd dpa / afp / reuters send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de dutch police arrest top suspect in duisburg mafia massacre dutch police have arrested an italian man named by authorities as the main suspect for the 2007 murder of six men outside a duisburg restaurant .
the man 's brother-in-law was also arrested during the operation .
-lrb- 13.03.2009 -rrb- police nab mafia boss tied to duisburg killings a suspected mafia boss who was implicated in the execution-style killings of six members of his clan in duisburg , germany , in 2007 , was finally tracked down in italy .
-lrb- 16.10.2008 -rrb- police arrest mafia boss with ties to duisburg massacre italian police arrested a wanted calabrian mafia boss who is the brother-in-law of a chief suspect in the august 2007 killings of six italians in duisburg , news reports said on thursday , aug .
7 .
-lrb- 07.08.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
italian suspect in german mob killings to be extradited to italy -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 16.09.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de crime -pipe- 13.05.2009 italian suspect in german mob killings to be extradited to italy großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : strangio has been top of the most-wanted lists both in germany and in italy giovanni strangio , an italian-born top suspect in a 2007 mafia shootout in germany , is to be extradited to italy , not germany , a dutch court ruled on wednesday . judge fred salomon said strangio , who was arrested in march in the netherlands , would be handed over to italian authorities because italy 's claim to the suspect was stronger than germany 's .
" the italian -lrb- extradition -rrb- request enjoys priority , " salomon said as he handed down the ruling in an amsterdam court . strangio , 30 , is an alleged leading member of the notorious southern italian mafia ' ndrangheta and one of the most wanted people in germany and italy .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the six victims in the duisburg mafia killings were shot in their cars he is suspected of being the ringleader of a shootout that left six rival clan members dead outside a pizzeria in duisburg , western germany , in august 2007 .
germany still wants strangio public prosecutors in duisburg had been trying to get strangio extradited to germany to try him in a local court .
but in recent weeks , it was widely expected that the dutch court would rule in favor of italy .
prosecutors in duisburg have agreed that strangio should be taken first to italy , spokesman detlef nowotsch said .
" we are stepping back for the time being , " nowotsch said .
" but that does n't mean that we do n't want strangio , " he added .
italy 's case for strangio stronger , judge says on wednesday , salomon said italy 's reasons for wanting to try strangio on home soil were more compelling than germany 's .
the judge said the german killings had been the result of clashes between rival clans in the italian town of san luca .
" therefore the relation with italy is bigger than the relation with duisburg where the crime took place , " salomon said .
the judge also pointed out that italy was seeking to prosecute strangio not only for the 2007 killings , but also for membership of a criminal organization .
" furthermore , all the victims had italian nationality , " he said .
strangio is to be transferred to italian custody from his dutch prison in the next 10 days .
killings draw attention to ' ndrangheta mafia the execution-style shootings in duisburg , which grabbed headlines in germany , stemmed from a feud between two rival clans .
the bloody crime drew international attention to the ' ndrangheta , a crime syndicate based in the southern italian region of calabria .
witnesses said they saw two attackers fire about 70 bullets at the six victims , aged 16 to 39 , as they were sitting in their cars after leaving the da bruno restaurant in the industrial city .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the killings outside the da bruno restaurant in duisburg sent shockwaves through germany the duisburg hit was believed to have been revenge for the 2006 christmas-time killing of maria strangio , a cousin of giovanni strangio and the wife of the head of the nirta-strangio clan , giovanni nirta , and the wounding of her son .
the battle between the rival clans has left 16 people dead since 1991 .
in march , an italian court jailed 31 people for the duisburg massacre , one of them for 13 years .
italy 's eurispes social studies institute has estimated ' ndrangheta 's turnover from trafficking in drugs and arms , prostitution and extortion in 2007 at 44 billion euros -lrb- $ 65 billion -rrb- .
strangio was arrested in march in the dutch town of diemen , after a lengthy probe involving telephone wire tapping , surveillance and close coordination between dutch , german and italian police . sp / pfd dpa / afp / reuters send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de dutch police arrest top suspect in duisburg mafia massacre dutch police have arrested an italian man named by authorities as the main suspect for the 2007 murder of six men outside a duisburg restaurant .
the man 's brother-in-law was also arrested during the operation .
-lrb- 13.03.2009 -rrb- police nab mafia boss tied to duisburg killings a suspected mafia boss who was implicated in the execution-style killings of six members of his clan in duisburg , germany , in 2007 , was finally tracked down in italy .
-lrb- 16.10.2008 -rrb- police arrest mafia boss with ties to duisburg massacre italian police arrested a wanted calabrian mafia boss who is the brother-in-law of a chief suspect in the august 2007 killings of six italians in duisburg , news reports said on thursday , aug .
7 .
-lrb- 07.08.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live world in progress development in a globalized world listen live people natascha kampusch , the austrian who was kept prisoner from age 10 to 18 , publishes her autobigraphy .
listen to the report postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket are the gay games necessary ?
love parade - the end of an era oracle paul takes the plunge europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
italian suspect in german mob killings to be extradited to italy -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 07.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de crime -pipe- 13.05.2009 italian suspect in german mob killings to be extradited to italy großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : strangio has been top of the most-wanted lists both in germany and in italy giovanni strangio , an italian-born top suspect in a 2007 mafia shootout in germany , is to be extradited to italy , not germany , a dutch court ruled on wednesday . judge fred salomon said strangio , who was arrested in march in the netherlands , would be handed over to italian authorities because italy 's claim to the suspect was stronger than germany 's .
" the italian -lrb- extradition -rrb- request enjoys priority , " salomon said as he handed down the ruling in an amsterdam court . strangio , 30 , is an alleged leading member of the notorious southern italian mafia ' ndrangheta and one of the most wanted people in germany and italy .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the six victims in the duisburg mafia killings were shot in their cars he is suspected of being the ringleader of a shootout that left six rival clan members dead outside a pizzeria in duisburg , western germany , in august 2007 .
germany still wants strangio public prosecutors in duisburg had been trying to get strangio extradited to germany to try him in a local court .
but in recent weeks , it was widely expected that the dutch court would rule in favor of italy .
prosecutors in duisburg have agreed that strangio should be taken first to italy , spokesman detlef nowotsch said .
" we are stepping back for the time being , " nowotsch said .
" but that does n't mean that we do n't want strangio , " he added .
italy 's case for strangio stronger , judge says on wednesday , salomon said italy 's reasons for wanting to try strangio on home soil were more compelling than germany 's .
the judge said the german killings had been the result of clashes between rival clans in the italian town of san luca .
" therefore the relation with italy is bigger than the relation with duisburg where the crime took place , " salomon said .
the judge also pointed out that italy was seeking to prosecute strangio not only for the 2007 killings , but also for membership of a criminal organization .
" furthermore , all the victims had italian nationality , " he said .
strangio is to be transferred to italian custody from his dutch prison in the next 10 days .
killings draw attention to ' ndrangheta mafia the execution-style shootings in duisburg , which grabbed headlines in germany , stemmed from a feud between two rival clans .
the bloody crime drew international attention to the ' ndrangheta , a crime syndicate based in the southern italian region of calabria .
witnesses said they saw two attackers fire about 70 bullets at the six victims , aged 16 to 39 , as they were sitting in their cars after leaving the da bruno restaurant in the industrial city .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the killings outside the da bruno restaurant in duisburg sent shockwaves through germany the duisburg hit was believed to have been revenge for the 2006 christmas-time killing of maria strangio , a cousin of giovanni strangio and the wife of the head of the nirta-strangio clan , giovanni nirta , and the wounding of her son .
the battle between the rival clans has left 16 people dead since 1991 .
in march , an italian court jailed 31 people for the duisburg massacre , one of them for 13 years .
italy 's eurispes social studies institute has estimated ' ndrangheta 's turnover from trafficking in drugs and arms , prostitution and extortion in 2007 at 44 billion euros -lrb- $ 65 billion -rrb- .
strangio was arrested in march in the dutch town of diemen , after a lengthy probe involving telephone wire tapping , surveillance and close coordination between dutch , german and italian police . sp / pfd dpa / afp / reuters send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de dutch police arrest top suspect in duisburg mafia massacre dutch police have arrested an italian man named by authorities as the main suspect for the 2007 murder of six men outside a duisburg restaurant .
the man 's brother-in-law was also arrested during the operation .
-lrb- 13.03.2009 -rrb- police nab mafia boss tied to duisburg killings a suspected mafia boss who was implicated in the execution-style killings of six members of his clan in duisburg , germany , in 2007 , was finally tracked down in italy .
-lrb- 16.10.2008 -rrb- police arrest mafia boss with ties to duisburg massacre italian police arrested a wanted calabrian mafia boss who is the brother-in-law of a chief suspect in the august 2007 killings of six italians in duisburg , news reports said on thursday , aug .
7 .
-lrb- 07.08.2008 -rrb- 9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
terrorism europeans give mostly positive reactions to the killing of osama bin laden .
listen to the audio bundesliga near the end dw sports pundits have just two weeks left to hit the jackpot with their picks .
here goes nothing .
rescued one year after greece was bailed out by the eu and imf , debt problems still persist .
watch the video poptastic sweden 's past success with the eurovision song contest has given it high expectations .
listen to the audio postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
french burqa ban fits secular ideals is berlusconi giving italy a bad name ?
a dubious record for belgium inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
pope visits west bank , calls for palestinian statehood -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 31.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de religion -pipe- 13.05.2009 pope visits west bank , calls for palestinian statehood großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : palestinians gave an enthusiastic welcome to pope benedict during a visit to bethlehem , pope benedict xvi voiced support for palestinian aspirations of an independent homeland and said he hoped the wall that israel has erected in and around the west bank would come down . speaking in bethlehem after holding a mass in manger square , the pope pressed calls to remove the wall and watch towers that seal bethlehem off from jerusalem .
" towering over us ... is a stark reminder of the stalemate that relations between israelis and palestinians seem to have reached - the wall , " the pope said as he stood in the shadow of israel 's separation wall in the aida refugee camp , which houses refugees from israel 's creation in 1948 .
the pope said it 's " understandable that palestinians feel frustrated , " adding that " their legitimate aspirations for permanent homes , for an independent palestinian state , remain unfulfilled . "
the camp is home to around 5,000 refugees .
bildunterschrift : palestinian children at the aida refugee camp next to a poster of the pope " i have seen , ... overshadowing much of bethlehem , the wall that intrudes into your territories , separating neighbors and dividing families , " the pope said in the town believed to be the birthplace of jesus christ .
" although walls can be easily built , we all know that they do not last forever .
they can be taken down . "
pope lends support to palestinian statehood earlier , thousands greeted the pope 's black limousine as he made his way to manger square where he said mass for about 5,000 people next to the church of the nativity that marks the spot where christians believe jesus was born to mary in a stable .
one of the aims of the pope 's visit is to attempt to preserve a shrinking christian presence in the middle east .
the christian population of bethlehem has decreased dramatically in recent years through emigration . thousands of christians left the town after a palestinian uprising in 2000 and was met by an israeli security clampdown and the start of construction of the barrier .
the pope acknowledged israel 's security concerns as well as palestinian suffering , and urged people not to " resort to acts of violence or terrorism . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : pope benedict xvi outside of the church of the nativity in bethlehem the pope said his heart went out to those caught up in the conflict in gaza , adding that he was praying for an end to the israeli embargo of the gaza strip .
earlier , the pontiff told palestinian president mahmoud abbas that he backed the creation of a palestinian state .
" the holy see supports the right of your people to a sovereign palestinian homeland in the land of your forefathers , secure and at peace with your neighbors , within internationally recognized borders , " he said .
the pope 's comments are the vatican 's strongest and most symbolic public backing yet for an independent palestinian state .
the two-state solution is supported by abbas , arab nations and western powers .
but the new israeli prime minister , benjamin netanyahu , has declined so far to endorse it .
visit dogged by controversy the german-born pope 's week-long trip to the middle east , his first visit to the region , has not been without controversy .
on tuesday , a row erupted over the pope 's membership as a teenager of the hitler youth , as he paid a historic visit to holy sites in jerusalem .
vatican spokesman , federico lombardi , said the pontiff had " never , never , never " belonged to the organization , but later changed his version , saying that he had been a member but his membership was compulsory .
in his own 1997 memoirs , pope benedict had said he had been registered with the hitler youth while he was at a seminary .
the latest row comes on the heels of comments by some israeli leaders complaining that the pope did not go far enough in offering emotion in remarks he made on monday at the yad vashem memorial to the jewish dead of the holocaust . sp , pfd reuters / ap / dpa send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de pope continues balancing act on tour of holy sites in jerusalem pope benedict xvi became the first pope to enter a politically-charged shrine in jerusalem sacred to jews and muslims .
the pope continues to face criticism on the second day of a week-long visit to the region .
-lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- pope continues middle east tour as criticism of yad vashem speech grows pope benedict xvi used a service at jerusalem 's yad vashem memorial to express " deep compassion " for the victims of the holocaust .
but jewish leaders in germany and israel criticized the pope for not going far enough .
-lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- pope seeks to salve holocaust wounds pope benedict xvi is on his first trip to israel .
he has used a speech to seek to heal the wounds created by , among other things , his reinstatement of a holocaust-denying bishop .
-lrb- 11.05.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic pope benedict calls israel 's security barrier in the west bank " tragic " feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
berlin unveils plan to help rid banks of toxic assets -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.10.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de economy -pipe- 13.05.2009 berlin unveils plan to help rid banks of toxic assets großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : banks can now move to clean up their balance sheets the german cabinet has approved a draft law to help rid lenders of an estimated 200 billion euros -lrb- $ 272 billion -rrb- in worthless assets .
banks can swap the assets against guaranteed state loans for up to 20 years . the aim of the " bad bank " plan is to clean up lenders ' balance sheets and restore confidence in the financial sector .
the bill , drafted by finance minister peer steinbrueck , would enable banks to receive state guaranteed loans on commercial terms , in exchange for offloading their troubled assets .
through the government 's financial market stabilization fund , soffin , lenders would be able to swap toxic assets for guaranteed state loans worth 90 percent of the original value of the assets .
lenders would pay an annual fee and be able to " freeze " the assets until better times come along . after a maximum of 20 years , they would have to pay back any losses to the government .
some believe the german banks hold more than 200 billion euros of troubled assets .
" in the interests of the real economy , we are buying time so that the so-called toxic assets can be cleared up , " explained chancellor angela merkel 's chief of staff , thomas de maiziere .
what 's worthless today , may not be tomorrow bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : german finance minister peer steinbrueck says taxpayers will not foot the bill " it 's not clear how toxic these assets really are , " said finance expert , otto salms of the liberal free democrats -lrb- fdp -rrb- .
" some of these assets may well be worth more again once the crisis ends and the economy recovers .
if that 's the case , the banks may end up having to write off much less at a later date than they would if they were forced to liquidate these assets today . "
economic recovery and financial liquidity go hand in hand .
one of the factors that 's been driving the crisis around the world is that banks have stopped lending to each other because they have n't been able to assess the size of the financial black holes on each other 's balance sheets .
berlin hopes that by removing bad holdings from balance sheets banks will start lending to each other again , as well as to businesses and consumers .
this in turn would help kick-start the german economy , the biggest in europe , which is expected to shrink by six percent this year .
shareholders , not taxpayers , to bear the burden under the plan , which comes five months before a general election , any liabilities at the end of maturity would accrue to shareholders , and not to the taxpayer .
" it 's only right that whoever made profits through taking high risks over the years , must also be prepared to take the losses , " explained financial expert johannes kahrs , of the social democrats -lrb- spd -rrb- , the coalition partners of chancellor angela merkel 's christian democrats -lrb- cdu -rrb- . "
i think that 's reasonable , it 's a basic economic principle . "
some critics say the scheme is flawed because it is voluntary .
banks are not to be forced to dispose of toxic assets through the soffin national rescue program .
the government insists that " good banks " are interesting for investors and a cleaned up , reliable balance sheet will attract capital .
the draft legislation still has to go before both the lower and upper houses of parliament , the bundestag und bundesrat . wl / pfd / afp / ard send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de financial watchdog chief calls for " bad bank " for toxic assets the head of a watchdog committee of germany 's bank stabilization fund has called for the creation of a " bad bank " that could buy up toxic assets and unblock interbank lending .
-lrb- 11.01.2009 -rrb- us mortgage crisis hits german banks the battered subprime mortgage market in the united states is increasingly impacting the us economy .
now , losses from risky us home loans to borrowers with poor credit histories have swept across the atlantic .
-lrb- 31.07.2007 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic the german cabinet backs plan to relieve the country 's banks of their toxic assets feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live hits in germany pop from the top 100 listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
pope visits west bank , calls for palestinian statehood -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 15.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de religion -pipe- 13.05.2009 pope visits west bank , calls for palestinian statehood großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : palestinians gave an enthusiastic welcome to pope benedict during a visit to bethlehem , pope benedict xvi voiced support for palestinian aspirations of an independent homeland and said he hoped the wall that israel has erected in and around the west bank would come down . speaking in bethlehem after holding a mass in manger square , the pope pressed calls to remove the wall and watch towers that seal bethlehem off from jerusalem .
" towering over us ... is a stark reminder of the stalemate that relations between israelis and palestinians seem to have reached - the wall , " the pope said as he stood in the shadow of israel 's separation wall in the aida refugee camp , which houses refugees from israel 's creation in 1948 .
the pope said it 's " understandable that palestinians feel frustrated , " adding that " their legitimate aspirations for permanent homes , for an independent palestinian state , remain unfulfilled . "
the camp is home to around 5,000 refugees .
bildunterschrift : palestinian children at the aida refugee camp next to a poster of the pope " i have seen , ... overshadowing much of bethlehem , the wall that intrudes into your territories , separating neighbors and dividing families , " the pope said in the town believed to be the birthplace of jesus christ .
" although walls can be easily built , we all know that they do not last forever .
they can be taken down . "
pope lends support to palestinian statehood earlier , thousands greeted the pope 's black limousine as he made his way to manger square where he said mass for about 5,000 people next to the church of the nativity that marks the spot where christians believe jesus was born to mary in a stable .
one of the aims of the pope 's visit is to attempt to preserve a shrinking christian presence in the middle east .
the christian population of bethlehem has decreased dramatically in recent years through emigration . thousands of christians left the town after a palestinian uprising in 2000 and was met by an israeli security clampdown and the start of construction of the barrier .
the pope acknowledged israel 's security concerns as well as palestinian suffering , and urged people not to " resort to acts of violence or terrorism . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : pope benedict xvi outside of the church of the nativity in bethlehem the pope said his heart went out to those caught up in the conflict in gaza , adding that he was praying for an end to the israeli embargo of the gaza strip .
earlier , the pontiff told palestinian president mahmoud abbas that he backed the creation of a palestinian state .
" the holy see supports the right of your people to a sovereign palestinian homeland in the land of your forefathers , secure and at peace with your neighbors , within internationally recognized borders , " he said .
the pope 's comments are the vatican 's strongest and most symbolic public backing yet for an independent palestinian state .
the two-state solution is supported by abbas , arab nations and western powers .
but the new israeli prime minister , benjamin netanyahu , has declined so far to endorse it .
visit dogged by controversy the german-born pope 's week-long trip to the middle east , his first visit to the region , has not been without controversy .
on tuesday , a row erupted over the pope 's membership as a teenager of the hitler youth , as he paid a historic visit to holy sites in jerusalem .
vatican spokesman , federico lombardi , said the pontiff had " never , never , never " belonged to the organization , but later changed his version , saying that he had been a member but his membership was compulsory .
in his own 1997 memoirs , pope benedict had said he had been registered with the hitler youth while he was at a seminary .
the latest row comes on the heels of comments by some israeli leaders complaining that the pope did not go far enough in offering emotion in remarks he made on monday at the yad vashem memorial to the jewish dead of the holocaust . sp , pfd reuters / ap / dpa send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de pope continues balancing act on tour of holy sites in jerusalem pope benedict xvi became the first pope to enter a politically-charged shrine in jerusalem sacred to jews and muslims .
the pope continues to face criticism on the second day of a week-long visit to the region .
-lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- pope continues middle east tour as criticism of yad vashem speech grows pope benedict xvi used a service at jerusalem 's yad vashem memorial to express " deep compassion " for the victims of the holocaust .
but jewish leaders in germany and israel criticized the pope for not going far enough .
-lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- pope seeks to salve holocaust wounds pope benedict xvi is on his first trip to israel .
he has used a speech to seek to heal the wounds created by , among other things , his reinstatement of a holocaust-denying bishop .
-lrb- 11.05.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic pope benedict calls israel 's security barrier in the west bank " tragic " feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
van gaal to become next bayern munich coach -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 06.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de soccer -pipe- 13.05.2009 van gaal to become next bayern munich coach großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : futuer bayern munich head coach louis van gaal bayern munich are set to sign dutch coach louis van gaal ending weeks of speculation over who will be in charge of the bundesliga soccer club next season . bayern munich have confirmed that dutch coach louis van gaal will join the defending bundesliga champions as head coach on a two-year contract as of july 1 .
he is to replace interim coach jupp heynkes , who took over after juergen klinsmann was fired last month .
the coach who has led az alkmaar to their first dutch league title since 1981 , had been bayern 's first choice for the job . other managers under consideration are said to have included inter manager jose mourinho and arsenal 's arsene wenger .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bayern chairman karl-heinz rummenigge munich pleased with choice " we are happy that in louis van gaal we have managed to secure such an experienced and successful coach for bayern munich , " said bayern chairman karl-heinz rummenigge in a statement posted on the club 's website on wednesday .
having steered ajax to the champions league title in 1995 , van gaal , 57 , has a wealth of experience having also led the giants from amsterdam to consecutive dutch titles in 1994 , 1995 and 1996 .
after leading barcelona to back-to-back spanish league titles in 1998 and 1999 , the only blip in an otherwise exceptional career was when he took charge of the netherlands in 2000 .
when the dutch failed to reach the world cup finals in japan and south korea in 2002 , he was replaced by dick advocaat .
van gaal inherits a squad that is level on points with bundesliga leaders wolfsburg with two games remaining in the season .
he is expected to be closely involved in transfer decisions at the end of this season .
in return for alkmaar agreeing to release van gaal before his contract expires , bayern have agreed to play a friendly against alkmaar in the summer of 2010 without charging a fee . nt / pfd , sid / reuters / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ? 9800 dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio listen to the latest from german soccer on dw-radio .
sports report scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results .
dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
van gaal to become next bayern munich coach -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 23.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de soccer -pipe- 13.05.2009 van gaal to become next bayern munich coach großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : futuer bayern munich head coach louis van gaal bayern munich are set to sign dutch coach louis van gaal ending weeks of speculation over who will be in charge of the bundesliga soccer club next season . bayern munich have confirmed that dutch coach louis van gaal will join the defending bundesliga champions as head coach on a two-year contract as of july 1 .
he is to replace interim coach jupp heynkes , who took over after juergen klinsmann was fired last month .
the coach who has led az alkmaar to their first dutch league title since 1981 , had been bayern 's first choice for the job . other managers under consideration are said to have included inter manager jose mourinho and arsenal 's arsene wenger .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bayern chairman karl-heinz rummenigge munich pleased with choice " we are happy that in louis van gaal we have managed to secure such an experienced and successful coach for bayern munich , " said bayern chairman karl-heinz rummenigge in a statement posted on the club 's website on wednesday .
having steered ajax to the champions league title in 1995 , van gaal , 57 , has a wealth of experience having also led the giants from amsterdam to consecutive dutch titles in 1994 , 1995 and 1996 .
after leading barcelona to back-to-back spanish league titles in 1998 and 1999 , the only blip in an otherwise exceptional career was when he took charge of the netherlands in 2000 .
when the dutch failed to reach the world cup finals in japan and south korea in 2002 , he was replaced by dick advocaat .
van gaal inherits a squad that is level on points with bundesliga leaders wolfsburg with two games remaining in the season .
he is expected to be closely involved in transfer decisions at the end of this season .
in return for alkmaar agreeing to release van gaal before his contract expires , bayern have agreed to play a friendly against alkmaar in the summer of 2010 without charging a fee . nt / pfd , sid / reuters / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live im focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live concert hour listen live bundesliga predictions spot on dw pundits hope to get a little closer to perfection with their match day 19 picks .
dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results at a glance .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia moenchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
italian suspect in german mob killings to be extradited to italy -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 24.01.2011 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de crime -pipe- 13.05.2009 italian suspect in german mob killings to be extradited to italy großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : strangio has been top of the most-wanted lists both in germany and in italy giovanni strangio , an italian-born top suspect in a 2007 mafia shootout in germany , is to be extradited to italy , not germany , a dutch court ruled on wednesday . judge fred salomon said strangio , who was arrested in march in the netherlands , would be handed over to italian authorities because italy 's claim to the suspect was stronger than germany 's .
" the italian -lrb- extradition -rrb- request enjoys priority , " salomon said as he handed down the ruling in an amsterdam court . strangio , 30 , is an alleged leading member of the notorious southern italian mafia ' ndrangheta and one of the most wanted people in germany and italy .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the six victims in the duisburg mafia killings were shot in their cars he is suspected of being the ringleader of a shootout that left six rival clan members dead outside a pizzeria in duisburg , western germany , in august 2007 .
germany still wants strangio public prosecutors in duisburg had been trying to get strangio extradited to germany to try him in a local court .
but in recent weeks , it was widely expected that the dutch court would rule in favor of italy .
prosecutors in duisburg have agreed that strangio should be taken first to italy , spokesman detlef nowotsch said .
" we are stepping back for the time being , " nowotsch said .
" but that does n't mean that we do n't want strangio , " he added .
italy 's case for strangio stronger , judge says on wednesday , salomon said italy 's reasons for wanting to try strangio on home soil were more compelling than germany 's .
the judge said the german killings had been the result of clashes between rival clans in the italian town of san luca .
" therefore the relation with italy is bigger than the relation with duisburg where the crime took place , " salomon said .
the judge also pointed out that italy was seeking to prosecute strangio not only for the 2007 killings , but also for membership of a criminal organization .
" furthermore , all the victims had italian nationality , " he said .
strangio is to be transferred to italian custody from his dutch prison in the next 10 days .
killings draw attention to ' ndrangheta mafia the execution-style shootings in duisburg , which grabbed headlines in germany , stemmed from a feud between two rival clans .
the bloody crime drew international attention to the ' ndrangheta , a crime syndicate based in the southern italian region of calabria .
witnesses said they saw two attackers fire about 70 bullets at the six victims , aged 16 to 39 , as they were sitting in their cars after leaving the da bruno restaurant in the industrial city .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the killings outside the da bruno restaurant in duisburg sent shockwaves through germany the duisburg hit was believed to have been revenge for the 2006 christmas-time killing of maria strangio , a cousin of giovanni strangio and the wife of the head of the nirta-strangio clan , giovanni nirta , and the wounding of her son .
the battle between the rival clans has left 16 people dead since 1991 .
in march , an italian court jailed 31 people for the duisburg massacre , one of them for 13 years .
italy 's eurispes social studies institute has estimated ' ndrangheta 's turnover from trafficking in drugs and arms , prostitution and extortion in 2007 at 44 billion euros -lrb- $ 65 billion -rrb- .
strangio was arrested in march in the dutch town of diemen , after a lengthy probe involving telephone wire tapping , surveillance and close coordination between dutch , german and italian police . sp / pfd dpa / afp / reuters send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de dutch police arrest top suspect in duisburg mafia massacre dutch police have arrested an italian man named by authorities as the main suspect for the 2007 murder of six men outside a duisburg restaurant .
the man 's brother-in-law was also arrested during the operation .
-lrb- 13.03.2009 -rrb- police nab mafia boss tied to duisburg killings a suspected mafia boss who was implicated in the execution-style killings of six members of his clan in duisburg , germany , in 2007 , was finally tracked down in italy .
-lrb- 16.10.2008 -rrb- police arrest mafia boss with ties to duisburg massacre italian police arrested a wanted calabrian mafia boss who is the brother-in-law of a chief suspect in the august 2007 killings of six italians in duisburg , news reports said on thursday , aug .
7 .
-lrb- 07.08.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live learning by ear listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
italians hard hit by plastic bag ban east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
italian suspect in german mob killings to be extradited to italy -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 03.04.2011 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de crime -pipe- 13.05.2009 italian suspect in german mob killings to be extradited to italy großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : strangio has been top of the most-wanted lists both in germany and in italy giovanni strangio , an italian-born top suspect in a 2007 mafia shootout in germany , is to be extradited to italy , not germany , a dutch court ruled on wednesday . judge fred salomon said strangio , who was arrested in march in the netherlands , would be handed over to italian authorities because italy 's claim to the suspect was stronger than germany 's .
" the italian -lrb- extradition -rrb- request enjoys priority , " salomon said as he handed down the ruling in an amsterdam court . strangio , 30 , is an alleged leading member of the notorious southern italian mafia ' ndrangheta and one of the most wanted people in germany and italy .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the six victims in the duisburg mafia killings were shot in their cars he is suspected of being the ringleader of a shootout that left six rival clan members dead outside a pizzeria in duisburg , western germany , in august 2007 .
germany still wants strangio public prosecutors in duisburg had been trying to get strangio extradited to germany to try him in a local court .
but in recent weeks , it was widely expected that the dutch court would rule in favor of italy .
prosecutors in duisburg have agreed that strangio should be taken first to italy , spokesman detlef nowotsch said .
" we are stepping back for the time being , " nowotsch said .
" but that does n't mean that we do n't want strangio , " he added .
italy 's case for strangio stronger , judge says on wednesday , salomon said italy 's reasons for wanting to try strangio on home soil were more compelling than germany 's .
the judge said the german killings had been the result of clashes between rival clans in the italian town of san luca .
" therefore the relation with italy is bigger than the relation with duisburg where the crime took place , " salomon said .
the judge also pointed out that italy was seeking to prosecute strangio not only for the 2007 killings , but also for membership of a criminal organization .
" furthermore , all the victims had italian nationality , " he said .
strangio is to be transferred to italian custody from his dutch prison in the next 10 days .
killings draw attention to ' ndrangheta mafia the execution-style shootings in duisburg , which grabbed headlines in germany , stemmed from a feud between two rival clans .
the bloody crime drew international attention to the ' ndrangheta , a crime syndicate based in the southern italian region of calabria .
witnesses said they saw two attackers fire about 70 bullets at the six victims , aged 16 to 39 , as they were sitting in their cars after leaving the da bruno restaurant in the industrial city .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the killings outside the da bruno restaurant in duisburg sent shockwaves through germany the duisburg hit was believed to have been revenge for the 2006 christmas-time killing of maria strangio , a cousin of giovanni strangio and the wife of the head of the nirta-strangio clan , giovanni nirta , and the wounding of her son .
the battle between the rival clans has left 16 people dead since 1991 .
in march , an italian court jailed 31 people for the duisburg massacre , one of them for 13 years .
italy 's eurispes social studies institute has estimated ' ndrangheta 's turnover from trafficking in drugs and arms , prostitution and extortion in 2007 at 44 billion euros -lrb- $ 65 billion -rrb- .
strangio was arrested in march in the dutch town of diemen , after a lengthy probe involving telephone wire tapping , surveillance and close coordination between dutch , german and italian police . sp / pfd dpa / afp / reuters send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de dutch police arrest top suspect in duisburg mafia massacre dutch police have arrested an italian man named by authorities as the main suspect for the 2007 murder of six men outside a duisburg restaurant .
the man 's brother-in-law was also arrested during the operation .
-lrb- 13.03.2009 -rrb- police nab mafia boss tied to duisburg killings a suspected mafia boss who was implicated in the execution-style killings of six members of his clan in duisburg , germany , in 2007 , was finally tracked down in italy .
-lrb- 16.10.2008 -rrb- police arrest mafia boss with ties to duisburg massacre italian police arrested a wanted calabrian mafia boss who is the brother-in-law of a chief suspect in the august 2007 killings of six italians in duisburg , news reports said on thursday , aug .
7 .
-lrb- 07.08.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live discover germany we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inside europe listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
italians hard hit by plastic bag ban east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
italian suspect in german mob killings to be extradited to italy -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 19.10.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de crime -pipe- 13.05.2009 italian suspect in german mob killings to be extradited to italy großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : strangio has been top of the most-wanted lists both in germany and in italy giovanni strangio , an italian-born top suspect in a 2007 mafia shootout in germany , is to be extradited to italy , not germany , a dutch court ruled on wednesday . judge fred salomon said strangio , who was arrested in march in the netherlands , would be handed over to italian authorities because italy 's claim to the suspect was stronger than germany 's .
" the italian -lrb- extradition -rrb- request enjoys priority , " salomon said as he handed down the ruling in an amsterdam court . strangio , 30 , is an alleged leading member of the notorious southern italian mafia ' ndrangheta and one of the most wanted people in germany and italy .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the six victims in the duisburg mafia killings were shot in their cars he is suspected of being the ringleader of a shootout that left six rival clan members dead outside a pizzeria in duisburg , western germany , in august 2007 .
germany still wants strangio public prosecutors in duisburg had been trying to get strangio extradited to germany to try him in a local court .
but in recent weeks , it was widely expected that the dutch court would rule in favor of italy .
prosecutors in duisburg have agreed that strangio should be taken first to italy , spokesman detlef nowotsch said .
" we are stepping back for the time being , " nowotsch said .
" but that does n't mean that we do n't want strangio , " he added .
italy 's case for strangio stronger , judge says on wednesday , salomon said italy 's reasons for wanting to try strangio on home soil were more compelling than germany 's .
the judge said the german killings had been the result of clashes between rival clans in the italian town of san luca .
" therefore the relation with italy is bigger than the relation with duisburg where the crime took place , " salomon said .
the judge also pointed out that italy was seeking to prosecute strangio not only for the 2007 killings , but also for membership of a criminal organization .
" furthermore , all the victims had italian nationality , " he said .
strangio is to be transferred to italian custody from his dutch prison in the next 10 days .
killings draw attention to ' ndrangheta mafia the execution-style shootings in duisburg , which grabbed headlines in germany , stemmed from a feud between two rival clans .
the bloody crime drew international attention to the ' ndrangheta , a crime syndicate based in the southern italian region of calabria .
witnesses said they saw two attackers fire about 70 bullets at the six victims , aged 16 to 39 , as they were sitting in their cars after leaving the da bruno restaurant in the industrial city .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the killings outside the da bruno restaurant in duisburg sent shockwaves through germany the duisburg hit was believed to have been revenge for the 2006 christmas-time killing of maria strangio , a cousin of giovanni strangio and the wife of the head of the nirta-strangio clan , giovanni nirta , and the wounding of her son .
the battle between the rival clans has left 16 people dead since 1991 .
in march , an italian court jailed 31 people for the duisburg massacre , one of them for 13 years .
italy 's eurispes social studies institute has estimated ' ndrangheta 's turnover from trafficking in drugs and arms , prostitution and extortion in 2007 at 44 billion euros -lrb- $ 65 billion -rrb- .
strangio was arrested in march in the dutch town of diemen , after a lengthy probe involving telephone wire tapping , surveillance and close coordination between dutch , german and italian police . sp / pfd dpa / afp / reuters send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de dutch police arrest top suspect in duisburg mafia massacre dutch police have arrested an italian man named by authorities as the main suspect for the 2007 murder of six men outside a duisburg restaurant .
the man 's brother-in-law was also arrested during the operation .
-lrb- 13.03.2009 -rrb- police nab mafia boss tied to duisburg killings a suspected mafia boss who was implicated in the execution-style killings of six members of his clan in duisburg , germany , in 2007 , was finally tracked down in italy .
-lrb- 16.10.2008 -rrb- police arrest mafia boss with ties to duisburg massacre italian police arrested a wanted calabrian mafia boss who is the brother-in-law of a chief suspect in the august 2007 killings of six italians in duisburg , news reports said on thursday , aug .
7 .
-lrb- 07.08.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live typisch deutsch we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
quo vadis bosnia ?
betancourt book sparks controversy in france technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
van gaal to become next bayern munich coach -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 02.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de soccer -pipe- 13.05.2009 van gaal to become next bayern munich coach großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : futuer bayern munich head coach louis van gaal bayern munich are set to sign dutch coach louis van gaal ending weeks of speculation over who will be in charge of the bundesliga soccer club next season . bayern munich have confirmed that dutch coach louis van gaal will join the defending bundesliga champions as head coach on a two-year contract as of july 1 .
he is to replace interim coach jupp heynkes , who took over after juergen klinsmann was fired last month .
the coach who has led az alkmaar to their first dutch league title since 1981 , had been bayern 's first choice for the job . other managers under consideration are said to have included inter manager jose mourinho and arsenal 's arsene wenger .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bayern chairman karl-heinz rummenigge munich pleased with choice " we are happy that in louis van gaal we have managed to secure such an experienced and successful coach for bayern munich , " said bayern chairman karl-heinz rummenigge in a statement posted on the club 's website on wednesday .
having steered ajax to the champions league title in 1995 , van gaal , 57 , has a wealth of experience having also led the giants from amsterdam to consecutive dutch titles in 1994 , 1995 and 1996 .
after leading barcelona to back-to-back spanish league titles in 1998 and 1999 , the only blip in an otherwise exceptional career was when he took charge of the netherlands in 2000 .
when the dutch failed to reach the world cup finals in japan and south korea in 2002 , he was replaced by dick advocaat .
van gaal inherits a squad that is level on points with bundesliga leaders wolfsburg with two games remaining in the season .
he is expected to be closely involved in transfer decisions at the end of this season .
in return for alkmaar agreeing to release van gaal before his contract expires , bayern have agreed to play a friendly against alkmaar in the summer of 2010 without charging a fee . nt / pfd , sid / reuters / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 dw-tv europe live im focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
bundesliga picks playing hurt it 's match day 28 in the bundesliga but dw 's tired pundits wish it was all over already ...
dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer on dw-radio .
sports report scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia mönchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
cannes rolls out the world 's most famous red carpet once again -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 22.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de film -pipe- 13.05.2009 cannes rolls out the world 's most famous red carpet once again großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : in a cannes first , an animated film opened the festival each may , a festival held on the french riviera draws a collection of the world 's leading cinema minds from all corners of the globe : the cannes film festival .
this year 's edition kicked off on wednesday . the 62nd gathering of cinema 's elite in the resort town of cannes , which sits on france 's mediterranean coast , remains one of the world 's most esteemed and prestigious film festivals .
to win the coveted palme d 'or prize for best film at cannes could be described as a crowning achievement for any producer , director , actor or film studio involved in the production .
unlike other well-known film festivals , such as those in berlin and venice , the focus at cannes is usually on aesthetics : beautiful cinema .
though this year 's 20 entries take on more brutal tones .
this includes american quentin tarantino 's ultra-violent " inglourious basterds , " about a group of bloodthirsty nazi hunters , and korean park chan wook 's priest-turned-vampire flick " bak-jwi " -lrb- " thirst " -rrb- , which has already been racing up the movie charts in his home country .
maverick danish director lars von trier also raises the horror notch this year with his " antichrist , " in which willem dafoe and charlotte gainsbourg find themselves confronting their inner fears and some dark forces in a deserted cabin in the woods .
bildunterschrift : german director wim wenders ' film " paris , texas " is a past winner at cannes german co-production this year also sees a motion picture from germany-born director michael haneke , who directed the 2001 palme d 'or-winning film " the piano teacher . "
his latest cannes entry , " das weisse band " -lrb- " the white ribbon " -rrb- , is set in a village in protestant northern germany in 1913 .
haneke 's tale recreates a country on the eve of world war i , told through the lives of members of a youth choir run by the village school teacher and their families .
little more has been written about the film , the result of haneke 's strict policy of silence in the lead up to his films ' openings .
the film was a joint production between studios in germany , france , austria and italy .
if " the white ribbon " finds success at cannes this year , it would not be the first german co-production to make a name for itself at the festival .
in 1979 , volker schloendorff 's screen adaptation of " die blechtrommel " -lrb- " the tin drum " -rrb- took the top prize , as did wim wenders ' 1984 film " paris , texas . "
new and old faces bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : de niro will always be remembered for his leading role in " taxi driver " these films went on to become part of cinematic history , as do most palme d 'or winners .
this venerated list includes francis ford coppola 's " apocalypse now , " bunuel 's " viridiana , " visconti 's " the leopard " and scorsese 's " taxi driver . "
this year , all eyes will be on 3-d comedy " up " from us director pete docter , which is the first animated film to open the 12-day festival .
the story features an old man who ties balloons to his house in the hope of fulfilling a boyhood dream of flying to south america .
meanwhile , a man bent on avenging the death of his daughter in hong kong director jonnie to 's " vengeance " is also screening , and seven years after shaking up a storm in cannes with his story of rape in " irreversible , " france 's gaspar noe is back at the festival with " enter the void " about a brutal murder .
belt tightening bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the glitterati wo n't be stopped by the financial crisis with the economic crisis having cut a swathe through the world film industry over the last year , filmmakers from hollywood through to bollywood have faced cost-cutting , studio layoffs and an ever more cautious army of producers and movie financiers .
already signs have emerged that the motion picture business has scaled back plans for the lavish parties and extravagant promotional events that have always been a feature of the festival .
but all bets are that whatever the economic climate , this year 's gathering is still likely to celebrate movie-making and the cult of the celebrity with considerable style and flair . dfm / pfd / dpa / afp / reuters send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de germany 's film industry celebrates banner year in 2008 german productions contributed decisively to a banner year in the nation 's film industry in 2008 , continuing last year 's upbeat trend .
-lrb- 05.02.2009 -rrb- lights , camera , action for kosslick as berlinale approaches armed with a mischievous smile and twinkling eyes , dieter kosslick revels in his role as the director of the berlinale , which kicks off this year with a film about the illegal machinations of an international bank .
-lrb- 03.02.2009 -rrb- german love triangle squares off at venice film festival " jerichow , " a love triangle by german director christian petzold , screened at the venice film festival , the first german entry competing for the golden lion since 2004 .
it faces strong competition from the us and italy .
-lrb- 29.08.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's new free podcast .
' clip ' homepage clip no. 6 - klee clip no. 7 - einshoch6 clip no. 8 - johannes stankowski clip no. 9 - the bonny situation subscribe on itunes get the rss feed word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
hits in germany concert hour music this week arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth music dw presents podcasts of performances by top artists at the 2010 beethovenfest .
podcasts on itunes more on beethoven news quiz test your knowledge with the news quiz ! © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
cannes rolls out the world 's most famous red carpet once again -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 20.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de film -pipe- 13.05.2009 cannes rolls out the world 's most famous red carpet once again großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : in a cannes first , an animated film opened the festival each may , a festival held on the french riviera draws a collection of the world 's leading cinema minds from all corners of the globe : the cannes film festival .
this year 's edition kicked off on wednesday . the 62nd gathering of cinema 's elite in the resort town of cannes , which sits on france 's mediterranean coast , remains one of the world 's most esteemed and prestigious film festivals .
to win the coveted palme d 'or prize for best film at cannes could be described as a crowning achievement for any producer , director , actor or film studio involved in the production .
unlike other well-known film festivals , such as those in berlin and venice , the focus at cannes is usually on aesthetics : beautiful cinema .
though this year 's 20 entries take on more brutal tones .
this includes american quentin tarantino 's ultra-violent " inglourious basterds , " about a group of bloodthirsty nazi hunters , and korean park chan wook 's priest-turned-vampire flick " bak-jwi " -lrb- " thirst " -rrb- , which has already been racing up the movie charts in his home country .
maverick danish director lars von trier also raises the horror notch this year with his " antichrist , " in which willem dafoe and charlotte gainsbourg find themselves confronting their inner fears and some dark forces in a deserted cabin in the woods .
bildunterschrift : german director wim wenders ' film " paris , texas " is a past winner at cannes german co-production this year also sees a motion picture from germany-born director michael haneke , who directed the 2001 palme d 'or-winning film " the piano teacher . "
his latest cannes entry , " das weisse band " -lrb- " the white ribbon " -rrb- , is set in a village in protestant northern germany in 1913 .
haneke 's tale recreates a country on the eve of world war i , told through the lives of members of a youth choir run by the village school teacher and their families .
little more has been written about the film , the result of haneke 's strict policy of silence in the lead up to his films ' openings .
the film was a joint production between studios in germany , france , austria and italy .
if " the white ribbon " finds success at cannes this year , it would not be the first german co-production to make a name for itself at the festival .
in 1979 , volker schloendorff 's screen adaptation of " die blechtrommel " -lrb- " the tin drum " -rrb- took the top prize , as did wim wenders ' 1984 film " paris , texas . "
new and old faces bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : de niro will always be remembered for his leading role in " taxi driver " these films went on to become part of cinematic history , as do most palme d 'or winners .
this venerated list includes francis ford coppola 's " apocalypse now , " bunuel 's " viridiana , " visconti 's " the leopard " and scorsese 's " taxi driver . "
this year , all eyes will be on 3-d comedy " up " from us director pete docter , which is the first animated film to open the 12-day festival .
the story features an old man who ties balloons to his house in the hope of fulfilling a boyhood dream of flying to south america .
meanwhile , a man bent on avenging the death of his daughter in hong kong director jonnie to 's " vengeance " is also screening , and seven years after shaking up a storm in cannes with his story of rape in " irreversible , " france 's gaspar noe is back at the festival with " enter the void " about a brutal murder .
belt tightening bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the glitterati wo n't be stopped by the financial crisis with the economic crisis having cut a swathe through the world film industry over the last year , filmmakers from hollywood through to bollywood have faced cost-cutting , studio layoffs and an ever more cautious army of producers and movie financiers .
already signs have emerged that the motion picture business has scaled back plans for the lavish parties and extravagant promotional events that have always been a feature of the festival .
but all bets are that whatever the economic climate , this year 's gathering is still likely to celebrate movie-making and the cult of the celebrity with considerable style and flair . dfm / pfd / dpa / afp / reuters send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de germany 's film industry celebrates banner year in 2008 german productions contributed decisively to a banner year in the nation 's film industry in 2008 , continuing last year 's upbeat trend .
-lrb- 05.02.2009 -rrb- lights , camera , action for kosslick as berlinale approaches armed with a mischievous smile and twinkling eyes , dieter kosslick revels in his role as the director of the berlinale , which kicks off this year with a film about the illegal machinations of an international bank .
-lrb- 03.02.2009 -rrb- german love triangle squares off at venice film festival " jerichow , " a love triangle by german director christian petzold , screened at the venice film festival , the first german entry competing for the golden lion since 2004 .
it faces strong competition from the us and italy .
-lrb- 29.08.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live picture gallery fat and felt nearly 25 years after his death , joseph beuys is remembered for his broad view of art .
travel explore some of germany 's most spectacular historic castles .
marksburg albrechtsburg castle hohenzollern castle dw-tv : euromaxx podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's new free podcast .
clip no. 1 - luis und laserpower clip no. 2 - abel & cain clip no. 3 - baby benzin clip no. 4 - the intersphere subscribe on itunes get the rss feed word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
hits in germany concert hour music this week arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
cannes rolls out the world 's most famous red carpet once again -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 15.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de film -pipe- 13.05.2009 cannes rolls out the world 's most famous red carpet once again großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : in a cannes first , an animated film opened the festival each may , a festival held on the french riviera draws a collection of the world 's leading cinema minds from all corners of the globe : the cannes film festival .
this year 's edition kicked off on wednesday . the 62nd gathering of cinema 's elite in the resort town of cannes , which sits on france 's mediterranean coast , remains one of the world 's most esteemed and prestigious film festivals .
to win the coveted palme d 'or prize for best film at cannes could be described as a crowning achievement for any producer , director , actor or film studio involved in the production .
unlike other well-known film festivals , such as those in berlin and venice , the focus at cannes is usually on aesthetics : beautiful cinema .
though this year 's 20 entries take on more brutal tones .
this includes american quentin tarantino 's ultra-violent " inglourious basterds , " about a group of bloodthirsty nazi hunters , and korean park chan wook 's priest-turned-vampire flick " bak-jwi " -lrb- " thirst " -rrb- , which has already been racing up the movie charts in his home country .
maverick danish director lars von trier also raises the horror notch this year with his " antichrist , " in which willem dafoe and charlotte gainsbourg find themselves confronting their inner fears and some dark forces in a deserted cabin in the woods .
bildunterschrift : german director wim wenders ' film " paris , texas " is a past winner at cannes german co-production this year also sees a motion picture from germany-born director michael haneke , who directed the 2001 palme d 'or-winning film " the piano teacher . "
his latest cannes entry , " das weisse band " -lrb- " the white ribbon " -rrb- , is set in a village in protestant northern germany in 1913 .
haneke 's tale recreates a country on the eve of world war i , told through the lives of members of a youth choir run by the village school teacher and their families .
little more has been written about the film , the result of haneke 's strict policy of silence in the lead up to his films ' openings .
the film was a joint production between studios in germany , france , austria and italy .
if " the white ribbon " finds success at cannes this year , it would not be the first german co-production to make a name for itself at the festival .
in 1979 , volker schloendorff 's screen adaptation of " die blechtrommel " -lrb- " the tin drum " -rrb- took the top prize , as did wim wenders ' 1984 film " paris , texas . "
new and old faces bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : de niro will always be remembered for his leading role in " taxi driver " these films went on to become part of cinematic history , as do most palme d 'or winners .
this venerated list includes francis ford coppola 's " apocalypse now , " bunuel 's " viridiana , " visconti 's " the leopard " and scorsese 's " taxi driver . "
this year , all eyes will be on 3-d comedy " up " from us director pete docter , which is the first animated film to open the 12-day festival .
the story features an old man who ties balloons to his house in the hope of fulfilling a boyhood dream of flying to south america .
meanwhile , a man bent on avenging the death of his daughter in hong kong director jonnie to 's " vengeance " is also screening , and seven years after shaking up a storm in cannes with his story of rape in " irreversible , " france 's gaspar noe is back at the festival with " enter the void " about a brutal murder .
belt tightening bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the glitterati wo n't be stopped by the financial crisis with the economic crisis having cut a swathe through the world film industry over the last year , filmmakers from hollywood through to bollywood have faced cost-cutting , studio layoffs and an ever more cautious army of producers and movie financiers .
already signs have emerged that the motion picture business has scaled back plans for the lavish parties and extravagant promotional events that have always been a feature of the festival .
but all bets are that whatever the economic climate , this year 's gathering is still likely to celebrate movie-making and the cult of the celebrity with considerable style and flair . dfm / pfd / dpa / afp / reuters send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de germany 's film industry celebrates banner year in 2008 german productions contributed decisively to a banner year in the nation 's film industry in 2008 , continuing last year 's upbeat trend .
-lrb- 05.02.2009 -rrb- lights , camera , action for kosslick as berlinale approaches armed with a mischievous smile and twinkling eyes , dieter kosslick revels in his role as the director of the berlinale , which kicks off this year with a film about the illegal machinations of an international bank .
-lrb- 03.02.2009 -rrb- german love triangle squares off at venice film festival " jerichow , " a love triangle by german director christian petzold , screened at the venice film festival , the first german entry competing for the golden lion since 2004 .
it faces strong competition from the us and italy .
-lrb- 29.08.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
picture gallery christmas markets holiday cheer ís easy to come by during the advent season in germany .
travel explore some of europe 's most fascinating cities with dw-tv 's euromaxx .
athens , greece trieste , italy krakow , poland le mans , france tarragona , spain oslo , norway edinburgh , scotland dresden , germany podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's new free podcast .
' clip ' homepage clip no. 4 - the intersphere clip no. 5 - shantel clip no. 6 - klee clip no. 7 - einshoch6 subscribe on itunes get the rss feed word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
hits in germany concert hour music this week arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth music dw presents podcasts of performances by top artists at the 2010 beethovenfest .
podcasts on itunes more on beethoven © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
cannes rolls out the world 's most famous red carpet once again -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 31.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de film -pipe- 13.05.2009 cannes rolls out the world 's most famous red carpet once again großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : in a cannes first , an animated film opened the festival each may , a festival held on the french riviera draws a collection of the world 's leading cinema minds from all corners of the globe : the cannes film festival .
this year 's edition kicked off on wednesday . the 62nd gathering of cinema 's elite in the resort town of cannes , which sits on france 's mediterranean coast , remains one of the world 's most esteemed and prestigious film festivals .
to win the coveted palme d 'or prize for best film at cannes could be described as a crowning achievement for any producer , director , actor or film studio involved in the production .
unlike other well-known film festivals , such as those in berlin and venice , the focus at cannes is usually on aesthetics : beautiful cinema .
though this year 's 20 entries take on more brutal tones .
this includes american quentin tarantino 's ultra-violent " inglourious basterds , " about a group of bloodthirsty nazi hunters , and korean park chan wook 's priest-turned-vampire flick " bak-jwi " -lrb- " thirst " -rrb- , which has already been racing up the movie charts in his home country .
maverick danish director lars von trier also raises the horror notch this year with his " antichrist , " in which willem dafoe and charlotte gainsbourg find themselves confronting their inner fears and some dark forces in a deserted cabin in the woods .
bildunterschrift : german director wim wenders ' film " paris , texas " is a past winner at cannes german co-production this year also sees a motion picture from germany-born director michael haneke , who directed the 2001 palme d 'or-winning film " the piano teacher . "
his latest cannes entry , " das weisse band " -lrb- " the white ribbon " -rrb- , is set in a village in protestant northern germany in 1913 .
haneke 's tale recreates a country on the eve of world war i , told through the lives of members of a youth choir run by the village school teacher and their families .
little more has been written about the film , the result of haneke 's strict policy of silence in the lead up to his films ' openings .
the film was a joint production between studios in germany , france , austria and italy .
if " the white ribbon " finds success at cannes this year , it would not be the first german co-production to make a name for itself at the festival .
in 1979 , volker schloendorff 's screen adaptation of " die blechtrommel " -lrb- " the tin drum " -rrb- took the top prize , as did wim wenders ' 1984 film " paris , texas . "
new and old faces bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : de niro will always be remembered for his leading role in " taxi driver " these films went on to become part of cinematic history , as do most palme d 'or winners .
this venerated list includes francis ford coppola 's " apocalypse now , " bunuel 's " viridiana , " visconti 's " the leopard " and scorsese 's " taxi driver . "
this year , all eyes will be on 3-d comedy " up " from us director pete docter , which is the first animated film to open the 12-day festival .
the story features an old man who ties balloons to his house in the hope of fulfilling a boyhood dream of flying to south america .
meanwhile , a man bent on avenging the death of his daughter in hong kong director jonnie to 's " vengeance " is also screening , and seven years after shaking up a storm in cannes with his story of rape in " irreversible , " france 's gaspar noe is back at the festival with " enter the void " about a brutal murder .
belt tightening bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the glitterati wo n't be stopped by the financial crisis with the economic crisis having cut a swathe through the world film industry over the last year , filmmakers from hollywood through to bollywood have faced cost-cutting , studio layoffs and an ever more cautious army of producers and movie financiers .
already signs have emerged that the motion picture business has scaled back plans for the lavish parties and extravagant promotional events that have always been a feature of the festival .
but all bets are that whatever the economic climate , this year 's gathering is still likely to celebrate movie-making and the cult of the celebrity with considerable style and flair . dfm / pfd / dpa / afp / reuters send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de germany 's film industry celebrates banner year in 2008 german productions contributed decisively to a banner year in the nation 's film industry in 2008 , continuing last year 's upbeat trend .
-lrb- 05.02.2009 -rrb- lights , camera , action for kosslick as berlinale approaches armed with a mischievous smile and twinkling eyes , dieter kosslick revels in his role as the director of the berlinale , which kicks off this year with a film about the illegal machinations of an international bank .
-lrb- 03.02.2009 -rrb- german love triangle squares off at venice film festival " jerichow , " a love triangle by german director christian petzold , screened at the venice film festival , the first german entry competing for the golden lion since 2004 .
it faces strong competition from the us and italy .
-lrb- 29.08.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 dw-tv europe live im focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live audio slide show aerial theater a young norwegian acrobat is following her passion - despite rope burns .
music dw presents podcasts of performances by top artists at the 2010 beethovenfest .
podcasts on itunes more on beethoven podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's new free podcast .
clip no. 1 - luis und laserpower clip no. 2 - abel & cain clip no. 3 - baby benzin clip no. 4 - the intersphere clip no. 5 - shantel clip no. 6 - klee subscribe on itunes get the rss feed word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
hits in germany concert hour music this week arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
cannes rolls out the world 's most famous red carpet once again -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 26.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle music art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de film -pipe- 13.05.2009 cannes rolls out the world 's most famous red carpet once again großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : in a cannes first , an animated film opened the festival each may , a festival held on the french riviera draws a collection of the world 's leading cinema minds from all corners of the globe : the cannes film festival .
this year 's edition kicked off on wednesday . the 62nd gathering of cinema 's elite in the resort town of cannes , which sits on france 's mediterranean coast , remains one of the world 's most esteemed and prestigious film festivals .
to win the coveted palme d 'or prize for best film at cannes could be described as a crowning achievement for any producer , director , actor or film studio involved in the production .
unlike other well-known film festivals , such as those in berlin and venice , the focus at cannes is usually on aesthetics : beautiful cinema .
though this year 's 20 entries take on more brutal tones .
this includes american quentin tarantino 's ultra-violent " inglourious basterds , " about a group of bloodthirsty nazi hunters , and korean park chan wook 's priest-turned-vampire flick " bak-jwi " -lrb- " thirst " -rrb- , which has already been racing up the movie charts in his home country .
maverick danish director lars von trier also raises the horror notch this year with his " antichrist , " in which willem dafoe and charlotte gainsbourg find themselves confronting their inner fears and some dark forces in a deserted cabin in the woods .
bildunterschrift : german director wim wenders ' film " paris , texas " is a past winner at cannes german co-production this year also sees a motion picture from germany-born director michael haneke , who directed the 2001 palme d 'or-winning film " the piano teacher . "
his latest cannes entry , " das weisse band " -lrb- " the white ribbon " -rrb- , is set in a village in protestant northern germany in 1913 .
haneke 's tale recreates a country on the eve of world war i , told through the lives of members of a youth choir run by the village school teacher and their families .
little more has been written about the film , the result of haneke 's strict policy of silence in the lead up to his films ' openings .
the film was a joint production between studios in germany , france , austria and italy .
if " the white ribbon " finds success at cannes this year , it would not be the first german co-production to make a name for itself at the festival .
in 1979 , volker schloendorff 's screen adaptation of " die blechtrommel " -lrb- " the tin drum " -rrb- took the top prize , as did wim wenders ' 1984 film " paris , texas . "
new and old faces bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : de niro will always be remembered for his leading role in " taxi driver " these films went on to become part of cinematic history , as do most palme d 'or winners .
this venerated list includes francis ford coppola 's " apocalypse now , " bunuel 's " viridiana , " visconti 's " the leopard " and scorsese 's " taxi driver . "
this year , all eyes will be on 3-d comedy " up " from us director pete docter , which is the first animated film to open the 12-day festival .
the story features an old man who ties balloons to his house in the hope of fulfilling a boyhood dream of flying to south america .
meanwhile , a man bent on avenging the death of his daughter in hong kong director jonnie to 's " vengeance " is also screening , and seven years after shaking up a storm in cannes with his story of rape in " irreversible , " france 's gaspar noe is back at the festival with " enter the void " about a brutal murder .
belt tightening bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the glitterati wo n't be stopped by the financial crisis with the economic crisis having cut a swathe through the world film industry over the last year , filmmakers from hollywood through to bollywood have faced cost-cutting , studio layoffs and an ever more cautious army of producers and movie financiers .
already signs have emerged that the motion picture business has scaled back plans for the lavish parties and extravagant promotional events that have always been a feature of the festival .
but all bets are that whatever the economic climate , this year 's gathering is still likely to celebrate movie-making and the cult of the celebrity with considerable style and flair . dfm / pfd / dpa / afp / reuters send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de germany 's film industry celebrates banner year in 2008 german productions contributed decisively to a banner year in the nation 's film industry in 2008 , continuing last year 's upbeat trend .
-lrb- 05.02.2009 -rrb- lights , camera , action for kosslick as berlinale approaches armed with a mischievous smile and twinkling eyes , dieter kosslick revels in his role as the director of the berlinale , which kicks off this year with a film about the illegal machinations of an international bank .
-lrb- 03.02.2009 -rrb- german love triangle squares off at venice film festival " jerichow , " a love triangle by german director christian petzold , screened at the venice film festival , the first german entry competing for the golden lion since 2004 .
it faces strong competition from the us and italy .
-lrb- 29.08.2008 -rrb- 9800 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
twitter follow dw culture keep up on europe 's culture and lifestyle scene .
feature scorpions on tour a legendary rock band is calling it quits and dw joins them on their final tour .
recent picture galleries bayreuth and the wagner family the color master : photos by joel sternfeld summer sunglasses car fetish exhibition berlin fashion week day of the kiss ai weiwei , the photographer podcast series traveling on a budget ?
dw presents shoestring guides to european cities .
get all the episodes subscribe on itunes get the rss feed podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's free podcast series .
meet story-teller and guitarist max prosa ' german pop ' homepage word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
view from my window radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
soundscape 100 concert hour arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
french lawmakers to pull the plug on internet pirates -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 23.01.2011 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de internet -pipe- 13.05.2009 french lawmakers to pull the plug on internet pirates großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : sarkozy championed the new legislation france has passed a bill that will let authorities track illegal downloading over the internet and disconnect repeat offenders .
opponents are critical of the law , arguing that access to the web is a fundamental right . the french senate on wednesday overwhelmingly voted into law a controversial measure that will cut off internet access to people who repeatedly download copyrighted music , films or video games without paying .
the vote , which had already passed the lower house by a narrow margin on tuesday , represents a success for president nicolas sarkozy , who championed the groundbreaking law .
the opposition socialists alienated many of their traditional supporters in the arts world by fighting the move .
the legislation aims to protect the revenues of record and film companies and recording artists .
after two warnings pirates will be cut off the tough new laws would punish music download pirates by shutting off their internet access for up to a year .
under the terms of the bill , internet pirates will receive two warnings , but their internet connection will be cut after the third offence .
during the time they are disconnected , they will have to continue paying their internet provider .
the music and film industries in france and abroad have shown wide support for the bill , but consumer groups and the socialist opposition have warned it would be difficult to implement .
opponents have criticized the penalties , and say access to the internet should be a fundamental right .
consumer groups said they feared intrusive monitoring of online activity and warn that innocent users may be unfairly punished if hackers use their accounts to download files .
the new law 's introduction onto the statute books is likely to be delayed by at least a month .
opponents have promised to challenge the legislation in france 's top court . ch / ncy / afp / reuters send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de major german online companies agree to block child porn websites german internet providers have grudgingly agreed to block websites containing child pornography .
critics say their deal with the government wo n't make much of a difference .
-lrb- 17.04.2009 -rrb- german artists defend copyright in google era google might reign as the unchallenged king of german search engines , but a lawsuit over the company 's popular image search feature brings into question the rights of german artists in the internet age .
-lrb- 21.10.2008 -rrb- new data law could benefit music pirates germany 's music industry fears that a new telephone data law could become a carte blanche for internet users , who download tunes illegally .
until now , they 've traced music pirates with the help of phone records .
-lrb- 30.03.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live sports report listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
italians hard hit by plastic bag ban east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
van gaal to become next bayern munich coach -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 25.03.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de soccer -pipe- 13.05.2009 van gaal to become next bayern munich coach großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : futuer bayern munich head coach louis van gaal bayern munich are set to sign dutch coach louis van gaal ending weeks of speculation over who will be in charge of the bundesliga soccer club next season . bayern munich have confirmed that dutch coach louis van gaal will join the defending bundesliga champions as head coach on a two-year contract as of july 1 .
he is to replace interim coach jupp heynkes , who took over after juergen klinsmann was fired last month .
the coach who has led az alkmaar to their first dutch league title since 1981 , had been bayern 's first choice for the job . other managers under consideration are said to have included inter manager jose mourinho and arsenal 's arsene wenger .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bayern chairman karl-heinz rummenigge munich pleased with choice " we are happy that in louis van gaal we have managed to secure such an experienced and successful coach for bayern munich , " said bayern chairman karl-heinz rummenigge in a statement posted on the club 's website on wednesday .
having steered ajax to the champions league title in 1995 , van gaal , 57 , has a wealth of experience having also led the giants from amsterdam to consecutive dutch titles in 1994 , 1995 and 1996 .
after leading barcelona to back-to-back spanish league titles in 1998 and 1999 , the only blip in an otherwise exceptional career was when he took charge of the netherlands in 2000 .
when the dutch failed to reach the world cup finals in japan and south korea in 2002 , he was replaced by dick advocaat .
van gaal inherits a squad that is level on points with bundesliga leaders wolfsburg with two games remaining in the season .
he is expected to be closely involved in transfer decisions at the end of this season .
in return for alkmaar agreeing to release van gaal before his contract expires , bayern have agreed to play a friendly against alkmaar in the summer of 2010 without charging a fee . nt / pfd , sid / reuters / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 dw-tv europe live quadriga we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer on dw-radio .
sports report scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia mönchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
van gaal to become next bayern munich coach -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de soccer -pipe- 13.05.2009 van gaal to become next bayern munich coach großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : futuer bayern munich head coach louis van gaal bayern munich are set to sign dutch coach louis van gaal ending weeks of speculation over who will be in charge of the bundesliga soccer club next season . bayern munich have confirmed that dutch coach louis van gaal will join the defending bundesliga champions as head coach on a two-year contract as of july 1 .
he is to replace interim coach jupp heynkes , who took over after juergen klinsmann was fired last month .
the coach who has led az alkmaar to their first dutch league title since 1981 , had been bayern 's first choice for the job . other managers under consideration are said to have included inter manager jose mourinho and arsenal 's arsene wenger .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bayern chairman karl-heinz rummenigge munich pleased with choice " we are happy that in louis van gaal we have managed to secure such an experienced and successful coach for bayern munich , " said bayern chairman karl-heinz rummenigge in a statement posted on the club 's website on wednesday .
having steered ajax to the champions league title in 1995 , van gaal , 57 , has a wealth of experience having also led the giants from amsterdam to consecutive dutch titles in 1994 , 1995 and 1996 .
after leading barcelona to back-to-back spanish league titles in 1998 and 1999 , the only blip in an otherwise exceptional career was when he took charge of the netherlands in 2000 .
when the dutch failed to reach the world cup finals in japan and south korea in 2002 , he was replaced by dick advocaat .
van gaal inherits a squad that is level on points with bundesliga leaders wolfsburg with two games remaining in the season .
he is expected to be closely involved in transfer decisions at the end of this season .
in return for alkmaar agreeing to release van gaal before his contract expires , bayern have agreed to play a friendly against alkmaar in the summer of 2010 without charging a fee . nt / pfd , sid / reuters / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live learning by ear listen live bundesliga predictions bumpy progress dw 's soccer pundits are having their bumps felt in an attempt to predict match day 15 results .
dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report high scorer freiburg 's papiss demba cisse opens up to dw-tv 's bundesliga kick off ! about his goalscoring ways .
watch the report scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results at a glance .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia moenchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
van gaal to become next bayern munich coach -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 26.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de soccer -pipe- 13.05.2009 van gaal to become next bayern munich coach großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : futuer bayern munich head coach louis van gaal bayern munich are set to sign dutch coach louis van gaal ending weeks of speculation over who will be in charge of the bundesliga soccer club next season . bayern munich have confirmed that dutch coach louis van gaal will join the defending bundesliga champions as head coach on a two-year contract as of july 1 .
he is to replace interim coach jupp heynkes , who took over after juergen klinsmann was fired last month .
the coach who has led az alkmaar to their first dutch league title since 1981 , had been bayern 's first choice for the job . other managers under consideration are said to have included inter manager jose mourinho and arsenal 's arsene wenger .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bayern chairman karl-heinz rummenigge munich pleased with choice " we are happy that in louis van gaal we have managed to secure such an experienced and successful coach for bayern munich , " said bayern chairman karl-heinz rummenigge in a statement posted on the club 's website on wednesday .
having steered ajax to the champions league title in 1995 , van gaal , 57 , has a wealth of experience having also led the giants from amsterdam to consecutive dutch titles in 1994 , 1995 and 1996 .
after leading barcelona to back-to-back spanish league titles in 1998 and 1999 , the only blip in an otherwise exceptional career was when he took charge of the netherlands in 2000 .
when the dutch failed to reach the world cup finals in japan and south korea in 2002 , he was replaced by dick advocaat .
van gaal inherits a squad that is level on points with bundesliga leaders wolfsburg with two games remaining in the season .
he is expected to be closely involved in transfer decisions at the end of this season .
in return for alkmaar agreeing to release van gaal before his contract expires , bayern have agreed to play a friendly against alkmaar in the summer of 2010 without charging a fee . nt / pfd , sid / reuters / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live hits in germany pop from the german top 100 listen live dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report bundesliga predictions match day nine picks the dw sports team picks the scores in the bundesliga ... for the ninth time .
scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results at a glance .
dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia moenchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
berlin unveils plan to help rid banks of toxic assets -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 30.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de economy -pipe- 13.05.2009 berlin unveils plan to help rid banks of toxic assets großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : banks can now move to clean up their balance sheets the german cabinet has approved a draft law to help rid lenders of an estimated 200 billion euros -lrb- $ 272 billion -rrb- in worthless assets .
banks can swap the assets against guaranteed state loans for up to 20 years . the aim of the " bad bank " plan is to clean up lenders ' balance sheets and restore confidence in the financial sector .
the bill , drafted by finance minister peer steinbrueck , would enable banks to receive state guaranteed loans on commercial terms , in exchange for offloading their troubled assets .
through the government 's financial market stabilization fund , soffin , lenders would be able to swap toxic assets for guaranteed state loans worth 90 percent of the original value of the assets .
lenders would pay an annual fee and be able to " freeze " the assets until better times come along . after a maximum of 20 years , they would have to pay back any losses to the government .
some believe the german banks hold more than 200 billion euros of troubled assets .
" in the interests of the real economy , we are buying time so that the so-called toxic assets can be cleared up , " explained chancellor angela merkel 's chief of staff , thomas de maiziere .
what 's worthless today , may not be tomorrow bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : german finance minister peer steinbrueck says taxpayers will not foot the bill " it 's not clear how toxic these assets really are , " said finance expert , otto salms of the liberal free democrats -lrb- fdp -rrb- .
" some of these assets may well be worth more again once the crisis ends and the economy recovers .
if that 's the case , the banks may end up having to write off much less at a later date than they would if they were forced to liquidate these assets today . "
economic recovery and financial liquidity go hand in hand .
one of the factors that 's been driving the crisis around the world is that banks have stopped lending to each other because they have n't been able to assess the size of the financial black holes on each other 's balance sheets .
berlin hopes that by removing bad holdings from balance sheets banks will start lending to each other again , as well as to businesses and consumers .
this in turn would help kick-start the german economy , the biggest in europe , which is expected to shrink by six percent this year .
shareholders , not taxpayers , to bear the burden under the plan , which comes five months before a general election , any liabilities at the end of maturity would accrue to shareholders , and not to the taxpayer .
" it 's only right that whoever made profits through taking high risks over the years , must also be prepared to take the losses , " explained financial expert johannes kahrs , of the social democrats -lrb- spd -rrb- , the coalition partners of chancellor angela merkel 's christian democrats -lrb- cdu -rrb- . "
i think that 's reasonable , it 's a basic economic principle . "
some critics say the scheme is flawed because it is voluntary .
banks are not to be forced to dispose of toxic assets through the soffin national rescue program .
the government insists that " good banks " are interesting for investors and a cleaned up , reliable balance sheet will attract capital .
the draft legislation still has to go before both the lower and upper houses of parliament , the bundestag und bundesrat . wl / pfd / afp / ard send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de financial watchdog chief calls for " bad bank " for toxic assets the head of a watchdog committee of germany 's bank stabilization fund has called for the creation of a " bad bank " that could buy up toxic assets and unblock interbank lending .
-lrb- 11.01.2009 -rrb- us mortgage crisis hits german banks the battered subprime mortgage market in the united states is increasingly impacting the us economy .
now , losses from risky us home loans to borrowers with poor credit histories have swept across the atlantic .
-lrb- 31.07.2007 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic the german cabinet backs plan to relieve the country 's banks of their toxic assets feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live popxport we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live european business week labor migration and budget cosmetics listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
berlin unveils plan to help rid banks of toxic assets -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 15.10.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de economy -pipe- 13.05.2009 berlin unveils plan to help rid banks of toxic assets großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : banks can now move to clean up their balance sheets the german cabinet has approved a draft law to help rid lenders of an estimated 200 billion euros -lrb- $ 272 billion -rrb- in worthless assets .
banks can swap the assets against guaranteed state loans for up to 20 years . the aim of the " bad bank " plan is to clean up lenders ' balance sheets and restore confidence in the financial sector .
the bill , drafted by finance minister peer steinbrueck , would enable banks to receive state guaranteed loans on commercial terms , in exchange for offloading their troubled assets .
through the government 's financial market stabilization fund , soffin , lenders would be able to swap toxic assets for guaranteed state loans worth 90 percent of the original value of the assets .
lenders would pay an annual fee and be able to " freeze " the assets until better times come along . after a maximum of 20 years , they would have to pay back any losses to the government .
some believe the german banks hold more than 200 billion euros of troubled assets .
" in the interests of the real economy , we are buying time so that the so-called toxic assets can be cleared up , " explained chancellor angela merkel 's chief of staff , thomas de maiziere .
what 's worthless today , may not be tomorrow bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : german finance minister peer steinbrueck says taxpayers will not foot the bill " it 's not clear how toxic these assets really are , " said finance expert , otto salms of the liberal free democrats -lrb- fdp -rrb- .
" some of these assets may well be worth more again once the crisis ends and the economy recovers .
if that 's the case , the banks may end up having to write off much less at a later date than they would if they were forced to liquidate these assets today . "
economic recovery and financial liquidity go hand in hand .
one of the factors that 's been driving the crisis around the world is that banks have stopped lending to each other because they have n't been able to assess the size of the financial black holes on each other 's balance sheets .
berlin hopes that by removing bad holdings from balance sheets banks will start lending to each other again , as well as to businesses and consumers .
this in turn would help kick-start the german economy , the biggest in europe , which is expected to shrink by six percent this year .
shareholders , not taxpayers , to bear the burden under the plan , which comes five months before a general election , any liabilities at the end of maturity would accrue to shareholders , and not to the taxpayer .
" it 's only right that whoever made profits through taking high risks over the years , must also be prepared to take the losses , " explained financial expert johannes kahrs , of the social democrats -lrb- spd -rrb- , the coalition partners of chancellor angela merkel 's christian democrats -lrb- cdu -rrb- . "
i think that 's reasonable , it 's a basic economic principle . "
some critics say the scheme is flawed because it is voluntary .
banks are not to be forced to dispose of toxic assets through the soffin national rescue program .
the government insists that " good banks " are interesting for investors and a cleaned up , reliable balance sheet will attract capital .
the draft legislation still has to go before both the lower and upper houses of parliament , the bundestag und bundesrat . wl / pfd / afp / ard send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de financial watchdog chief calls for " bad bank " for toxic assets the head of a watchdog committee of germany 's bank stabilization fund has called for the creation of a " bad bank " that could buy up toxic assets and unblock interbank lending .
-lrb- 11.01.2009 -rrb- us mortgage crisis hits german banks the battered subprime mortgage market in the united states is increasingly impacting the us economy .
now , losses from risky us home loans to borrowers with poor credit histories have swept across the atlantic .
-lrb- 31.07.2007 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic the german cabinet backs plan to relieve the country 's banks of their toxic assets feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live popxport we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inside europe listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
berlin unveils plan to help rid banks of toxic assets -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.03.2011 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de economy -pipe- 13.05.2009 berlin unveils plan to help rid banks of toxic assets großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : banks can now move to clean up their balance sheets the german cabinet has approved a draft law to help rid lenders of an estimated 200 billion euros -lrb- $ 272 billion -rrb- in worthless assets .
banks can swap the assets against guaranteed state loans for up to 20 years . the aim of the " bad bank " plan is to clean up lenders ' balance sheets and restore confidence in the financial sector .
the bill , drafted by finance minister peer steinbrueck , would enable banks to receive state guaranteed loans on commercial terms , in exchange for offloading their troubled assets .
through the government 's financial market stabilization fund , soffin , lenders would be able to swap toxic assets for guaranteed state loans worth 90 percent of the original value of the assets .
lenders would pay an annual fee and be able to " freeze " the assets until better times come along . after a maximum of 20 years , they would have to pay back any losses to the government .
some believe the german banks hold more than 200 billion euros of troubled assets .
" in the interests of the real economy , we are buying time so that the so-called toxic assets can be cleared up , " explained chancellor angela merkel 's chief of staff , thomas de maiziere .
what 's worthless today , may not be tomorrow bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : german finance minister peer steinbrueck says taxpayers will not foot the bill " it 's not clear how toxic these assets really are , " said finance expert , otto salms of the liberal free democrats -lrb- fdp -rrb- .
" some of these assets may well be worth more again once the crisis ends and the economy recovers .
if that 's the case , the banks may end up having to write off much less at a later date than they would if they were forced to liquidate these assets today . "
economic recovery and financial liquidity go hand in hand .
one of the factors that 's been driving the crisis around the world is that banks have stopped lending to each other because they have n't been able to assess the size of the financial black holes on each other 's balance sheets .
berlin hopes that by removing bad holdings from balance sheets banks will start lending to each other again , as well as to businesses and consumers .
this in turn would help kick-start the german economy , the biggest in europe , which is expected to shrink by six percent this year .
shareholders , not taxpayers , to bear the burden under the plan , which comes five months before a general election , any liabilities at the end of maturity would accrue to shareholders , and not to the taxpayer .
" it 's only right that whoever made profits through taking high risks over the years , must also be prepared to take the losses , " explained financial expert johannes kahrs , of the social democrats -lrb- spd -rrb- , the coalition partners of chancellor angela merkel 's christian democrats -lrb- cdu -rrb- . "
i think that 's reasonable , it 's a basic economic principle . "
some critics say the scheme is flawed because it is voluntary .
banks are not to be forced to dispose of toxic assets through the soffin national rescue program .
the government insists that " good banks " are interesting for investors and a cleaned up , reliable balance sheet will attract capital .
the draft legislation still has to go before both the lower and upper houses of parliament , the bundestag und bundesrat . wl / pfd / afp / ard send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de financial watchdog chief calls for " bad bank " for toxic assets the head of a watchdog committee of germany 's bank stabilization fund has called for the creation of a " bad bank " that could buy up toxic assets and unblock interbank lending .
-lrb- 11.01.2009 -rrb- us mortgage crisis hits german banks the battered subprime mortgage market in the united states is increasingly impacting the us economy .
now , losses from risky us home loans to borrowers with poor credit histories have swept across the atlantic .
-lrb- 31.07.2007 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic the german cabinet backs plan to relieve the country 's banks of their toxic assets feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live im focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
berlin unveils plan to help rid banks of toxic assets -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 05.01.2011 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de economy -pipe- 13.05.2009 berlin unveils plan to help rid banks of toxic assets großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : banks can now move to clean up their balance sheets the german cabinet has approved a draft law to help rid lenders of an estimated 200 billion euros -lrb- $ 272 billion -rrb- in worthless assets .
banks can swap the assets against guaranteed state loans for up to 20 years . the aim of the " bad bank " plan is to clean up lenders ' balance sheets and restore confidence in the financial sector .
the bill , drafted by finance minister peer steinbrueck , would enable banks to receive state guaranteed loans on commercial terms , in exchange for offloading their troubled assets .
through the government 's financial market stabilization fund , soffin , lenders would be able to swap toxic assets for guaranteed state loans worth 90 percent of the original value of the assets .
lenders would pay an annual fee and be able to " freeze " the assets until better times come along . after a maximum of 20 years , they would have to pay back any losses to the government .
some believe the german banks hold more than 200 billion euros of troubled assets .
" in the interests of the real economy , we are buying time so that the so-called toxic assets can be cleared up , " explained chancellor angela merkel 's chief of staff , thomas de maiziere .
what 's worthless today , may not be tomorrow bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : german finance minister peer steinbrueck says taxpayers will not foot the bill " it 's not clear how toxic these assets really are , " said finance expert , otto salms of the liberal free democrats -lrb- fdp -rrb- .
" some of these assets may well be worth more again once the crisis ends and the economy recovers .
if that 's the case , the banks may end up having to write off much less at a later date than they would if they were forced to liquidate these assets today . "
economic recovery and financial liquidity go hand in hand .
one of the factors that 's been driving the crisis around the world is that banks have stopped lending to each other because they have n't been able to assess the size of the financial black holes on each other 's balance sheets .
berlin hopes that by removing bad holdings from balance sheets banks will start lending to each other again , as well as to businesses and consumers .
this in turn would help kick-start the german economy , the biggest in europe , which is expected to shrink by six percent this year .
shareholders , not taxpayers , to bear the burden under the plan , which comes five months before a general election , any liabilities at the end of maturity would accrue to shareholders , and not to the taxpayer .
" it 's only right that whoever made profits through taking high risks over the years , must also be prepared to take the losses , " explained financial expert johannes kahrs , of the social democrats -lrb- spd -rrb- , the coalition partners of chancellor angela merkel 's christian democrats -lrb- cdu -rrb- . "
i think that 's reasonable , it 's a basic economic principle . "
some critics say the scheme is flawed because it is voluntary .
banks are not to be forced to dispose of toxic assets through the soffin national rescue program .
the government insists that " good banks " are interesting for investors and a cleaned up , reliable balance sheet will attract capital .
the draft legislation still has to go before both the lower and upper houses of parliament , the bundestag und bundesrat . wl / pfd / afp / ard send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de financial watchdog chief calls for " bad bank " for toxic assets the head of a watchdog committee of germany 's bank stabilization fund has called for the creation of a " bad bank " that could buy up toxic assets and unblock interbank lending .
-lrb- 11.01.2009 -rrb- us mortgage crisis hits german banks the battered subprime mortgage market in the united states is increasingly impacting the us economy .
now , losses from risky us home loans to borrowers with poor credit histories have swept across the atlantic .
-lrb- 31.07.2007 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic the german cabinet backs plan to relieve the country 's banks of their toxic assets feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
cannes rolls out the world 's most famous red carpet once again -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de film -pipe- 13.05.2009 cannes rolls out the world 's most famous red carpet once again großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : in a cannes first , an animated film opened the festival each may , a festival held on the french riviera draws a collection of the world 's leading cinema minds from all corners of the globe : the cannes film festival .
this year 's edition kicked off on wednesday . the 62nd gathering of cinema 's elite in the resort town of cannes , which sits on france 's mediterranean coast , remains one of the world 's most esteemed and prestigious film festivals .
to win the coveted palme d 'or prize for best film at cannes could be described as a crowning achievement for any producer , director , actor or film studio involved in the production .
unlike other well-known film festivals , such as those in berlin and venice , the focus at cannes is usually on aesthetics : beautiful cinema .
though this year 's 20 entries take on more brutal tones .
this includes american quentin tarantino 's ultra-violent " inglourious basterds , " about a group of bloodthirsty nazi hunters , and korean park chan wook 's priest-turned-vampire flick " bak-jwi " -lrb- " thirst " -rrb- , which has already been racing up the movie charts in his home country .
maverick danish director lars von trier also raises the horror notch this year with his " antichrist , " in which willem dafoe and charlotte gainsbourg find themselves confronting their inner fears and some dark forces in a deserted cabin in the woods .
bildunterschrift : german director wim wenders ' film " paris , texas " is a past winner at cannes german co-production this year also sees a motion picture from germany-born director michael haneke , who directed the 2001 palme d 'or-winning film " the piano teacher . "
his latest cannes entry , " das weisse band " -lrb- " the white ribbon " -rrb- , is set in a village in protestant northern germany in 1913 .
haneke 's tale recreates a country on the eve of world war i , told through the lives of members of a youth choir run by the village school teacher and their families .
little more has been written about the film , the result of haneke 's strict policy of silence in the lead up to his films ' openings .
the film was a joint production between studios in germany , france , austria and italy .
if " the white ribbon " finds success at cannes this year , it would not be the first german co-production to make a name for itself at the festival .
in 1979 , volker schloendorff 's screen adaptation of " die blechtrommel " -lrb- " the tin drum " -rrb- took the top prize , as did wim wenders ' 1984 film " paris , texas . "
new and old faces bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : de niro will always be remembered for his leading role in " taxi driver " these films went on to become part of cinematic history , as do most palme d 'or winners .
this venerated list includes francis ford coppola 's " apocalypse now , " bunuel 's " viridiana , " visconti 's " the leopard " and scorsese 's " taxi driver . "
this year , all eyes will be on 3-d comedy " up " from us director pete docter , which is the first animated film to open the 12-day festival .
the story features an old man who ties balloons to his house in the hope of fulfilling a boyhood dream of flying to south america .
meanwhile , a man bent on avenging the death of his daughter in hong kong director jonnie to 's " vengeance " is also screening , and seven years after shaking up a storm in cannes with his story of rape in " irreversible , " france 's gaspar noe is back at the festival with " enter the void " about a brutal murder .
belt tightening bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the glitterati wo n't be stopped by the financial crisis with the economic crisis having cut a swathe through the world film industry over the last year , filmmakers from hollywood through to bollywood have faced cost-cutting , studio layoffs and an ever more cautious army of producers and movie financiers .
already signs have emerged that the motion picture business has scaled back plans for the lavish parties and extravagant promotional events that have always been a feature of the festival .
but all bets are that whatever the economic climate , this year 's gathering is still likely to celebrate movie-making and the cult of the celebrity with considerable style and flair . dfm / pfd / dpa / afp / reuters send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de germany 's film industry celebrates banner year in 2008 german productions contributed decisively to a banner year in the nation 's film industry in 2008 , continuing last year 's upbeat trend .
-lrb- 05.02.2009 -rrb- lights , camera , action for kosslick as berlinale approaches armed with a mischievous smile and twinkling eyes , dieter kosslick revels in his role as the director of the berlinale , which kicks off this year with a film about the illegal machinations of an international bank .
-lrb- 03.02.2009 -rrb- german love triangle squares off at venice film festival " jerichow , " a love triangle by german director christian petzold , screened at the venice film festival , the first german entry competing for the golden lion since 2004 .
it faces strong competition from the us and italy .
-lrb- 29.08.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
picture gallery christmas markets holiday cheer ís easy to come by during the advent season in germany .
travel explore some of europe 's most fascinating cities with dw-tv 's euromaxx .
athens , greece trieste , italy krakow , poland le mans , france tarragona , spain oslo , norway edinburgh , scotland dresden , germany podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's new free podcast .
' clip ' homepage clip no. 4 - the intersphere clip no. 5 - shantel clip no. 6 - klee clip no. 7 - einshoch6 subscribe on itunes get the rss feed word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
hits in germany concert hour music this week arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth music dw presents podcasts of performances by top artists at the 2010 beethovenfest .
podcasts on itunes more on beethoven © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
cannes rolls out the world 's most famous red carpet once again -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 30.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle music art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de film -pipe- 13.05.2009 cannes rolls out the world 's most famous red carpet once again großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : in a cannes first , an animated film opened the festival each may , a festival held on the french riviera draws a collection of the world 's leading cinema minds from all corners of the globe : the cannes film festival .
this year 's edition kicked off on wednesday . the 62nd gathering of cinema 's elite in the resort town of cannes , which sits on france 's mediterranean coast , remains one of the world 's most esteemed and prestigious film festivals .
to win the coveted palme d 'or prize for best film at cannes could be described as a crowning achievement for any producer , director , actor or film studio involved in the production .
unlike other well-known film festivals , such as those in berlin and venice , the focus at cannes is usually on aesthetics : beautiful cinema .
though this year 's 20 entries take on more brutal tones .
this includes american quentin tarantino 's ultra-violent " inglourious basterds , " about a group of bloodthirsty nazi hunters , and korean park chan wook 's priest-turned-vampire flick " bak-jwi " -lrb- " thirst " -rrb- , which has already been racing up the movie charts in his home country .
maverick danish director lars von trier also raises the horror notch this year with his " antichrist , " in which willem dafoe and charlotte gainsbourg find themselves confronting their inner fears and some dark forces in a deserted cabin in the woods .
bildunterschrift : german director wim wenders ' film " paris , texas " is a past winner at cannes german co-production this year also sees a motion picture from germany-born director michael haneke , who directed the 2001 palme d 'or-winning film " the piano teacher . "
his latest cannes entry , " das weisse band " -lrb- " the white ribbon " -rrb- , is set in a village in protestant northern germany in 1913 .
haneke 's tale recreates a country on the eve of world war i , told through the lives of members of a youth choir run by the village school teacher and their families .
little more has been written about the film , the result of haneke 's strict policy of silence in the lead up to his films ' openings .
the film was a joint production between studios in germany , france , austria and italy .
if " the white ribbon " finds success at cannes this year , it would not be the first german co-production to make a name for itself at the festival .
in 1979 , volker schloendorff 's screen adaptation of " die blechtrommel " -lrb- " the tin drum " -rrb- took the top prize , as did wim wenders ' 1984 film " paris , texas . "
new and old faces bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : de niro will always be remembered for his leading role in " taxi driver " these films went on to become part of cinematic history , as do most palme d 'or winners .
this venerated list includes francis ford coppola 's " apocalypse now , " bunuel 's " viridiana , " visconti 's " the leopard " and scorsese 's " taxi driver . "
this year , all eyes will be on 3-d comedy " up " from us director pete docter , which is the first animated film to open the 12-day festival .
the story features an old man who ties balloons to his house in the hope of fulfilling a boyhood dream of flying to south america .
meanwhile , a man bent on avenging the death of his daughter in hong kong director jonnie to 's " vengeance " is also screening , and seven years after shaking up a storm in cannes with his story of rape in " irreversible , " france 's gaspar noe is back at the festival with " enter the void " about a brutal murder .
belt tightening bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the glitterati wo n't be stopped by the financial crisis with the economic crisis having cut a swathe through the world film industry over the last year , filmmakers from hollywood through to bollywood have faced cost-cutting , studio layoffs and an ever more cautious army of producers and movie financiers .
already signs have emerged that the motion picture business has scaled back plans for the lavish parties and extravagant promotional events that have always been a feature of the festival .
but all bets are that whatever the economic climate , this year 's gathering is still likely to celebrate movie-making and the cult of the celebrity with considerable style and flair . dfm / pfd / dpa / afp / reuters send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de germany 's film industry celebrates banner year in 2008 german productions contributed decisively to a banner year in the nation 's film industry in 2008 , continuing last year 's upbeat trend .
-lrb- 05.02.2009 -rrb- lights , camera , action for kosslick as berlinale approaches armed with a mischievous smile and twinkling eyes , dieter kosslick revels in his role as the director of the berlinale , which kicks off this year with a film about the illegal machinations of an international bank .
-lrb- 03.02.2009 -rrb- german love triangle squares off at venice film festival " jerichow , " a love triangle by german director christian petzold , screened at the venice film festival , the first german entry competing for the golden lion since 2004 .
it faces strong competition from the us and italy .
-lrb- 29.08.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's new free podcast .
' clip ' homepage clip no. 12 - favorite alt-rockers ja , panik are back subscribe on itunes get the rss feed word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
soundscape 100 concert hour arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth news quiz test your knowledge with the news quiz ! © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
berlin unveils plan to help rid banks of toxic assets -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de economy -pipe- 13.05.2009 berlin unveils plan to help rid banks of toxic assets großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : banks can now move to clean up their balance sheets the german cabinet has approved a draft law to help rid lenders of an estimated 200 billion euros -lrb- $ 272 billion -rrb- in worthless assets .
banks can swap the assets against guaranteed state loans for up to 20 years . the aim of the " bad bank " plan is to clean up lenders ' balance sheets and restore confidence in the financial sector .
the bill , drafted by finance minister peer steinbrueck , would enable banks to receive state guaranteed loans on commercial terms , in exchange for offloading their troubled assets .
through the government 's financial market stabilization fund , soffin , lenders would be able to swap toxic assets for guaranteed state loans worth 90 percent of the original value of the assets .
lenders would pay an annual fee and be able to " freeze " the assets until better times come along . after a maximum of 20 years , they would have to pay back any losses to the government .
some believe the german banks hold more than 200 billion euros of troubled assets .
" in the interests of the real economy , we are buying time so that the so-called toxic assets can be cleared up , " explained chancellor angela merkel 's chief of staff , thomas de maiziere .
what 's worthless today , may not be tomorrow bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : german finance minister peer steinbrueck says taxpayers will not foot the bill " it 's not clear how toxic these assets really are , " said finance expert , otto salms of the liberal free democrats -lrb- fdp -rrb- .
" some of these assets may well be worth more again once the crisis ends and the economy recovers .
if that 's the case , the banks may end up having to write off much less at a later date than they would if they were forced to liquidate these assets today . "
economic recovery and financial liquidity go hand in hand .
one of the factors that 's been driving the crisis around the world is that banks have stopped lending to each other because they have n't been able to assess the size of the financial black holes on each other 's balance sheets .
berlin hopes that by removing bad holdings from balance sheets banks will start lending to each other again , as well as to businesses and consumers .
this in turn would help kick-start the german economy , the biggest in europe , which is expected to shrink by six percent this year .
shareholders , not taxpayers , to bear the burden under the plan , which comes five months before a general election , any liabilities at the end of maturity would accrue to shareholders , and not to the taxpayer .
" it 's only right that whoever made profits through taking high risks over the years , must also be prepared to take the losses , " explained financial expert johannes kahrs , of the social democrats -lrb- spd -rrb- , the coalition partners of chancellor angela merkel 's christian democrats -lrb- cdu -rrb- . "
i think that 's reasonable , it 's a basic economic principle . "
some critics say the scheme is flawed because it is voluntary .
banks are not to be forced to dispose of toxic assets through the soffin national rescue program .
the government insists that " good banks " are interesting for investors and a cleaned up , reliable balance sheet will attract capital .
the draft legislation still has to go before both the lower and upper houses of parliament , the bundestag und bundesrat . wl / pfd / afp / ard send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de financial watchdog chief calls for " bad bank " for toxic assets the head of a watchdog committee of germany 's bank stabilization fund has called for the creation of a " bad bank " that could buy up toxic assets and unblock interbank lending .
-lrb- 11.01.2009 -rrb- us mortgage crisis hits german banks the battered subprime mortgage market in the united states is increasingly impacting the us economy .
now , losses from risky us home loans to borrowers with poor credit histories have swept across the atlantic .
-lrb- 31.07.2007 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic the german cabinet backs plan to relieve the country 's banks of their toxic assets 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit wirtschaft we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
business the historic german brand faber-castell celebrates 250 years of making pencils and pens .
watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
berlin unveils plan to help rid banks of toxic assets -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 01.08.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de economy -pipe- 13.05.2009 berlin unveils plan to help rid banks of toxic assets großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : banks can now move to clean up their balance sheets the german cabinet has approved a draft law to help rid lenders of an estimated 200 billion euros -lrb- $ 272 billion -rrb- in worthless assets .
banks can swap the assets against guaranteed state loans for up to 20 years . the aim of the " bad bank " plan is to clean up lenders ' balance sheets and restore confidence in the financial sector .
the bill , drafted by finance minister peer steinbrueck , would enable banks to receive state guaranteed loans on commercial terms , in exchange for offloading their troubled assets .
through the government 's financial market stabilization fund , soffin , lenders would be able to swap toxic assets for guaranteed state loans worth 90 percent of the original value of the assets .
lenders would pay an annual fee and be able to " freeze " the assets until better times come along . after a maximum of 20 years , they would have to pay back any losses to the government .
some believe the german banks hold more than 200 billion euros of troubled assets .
" in the interests of the real economy , we are buying time so that the so-called toxic assets can be cleared up , " explained chancellor angela merkel 's chief of staff , thomas de maiziere .
what 's worthless today , may not be tomorrow bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : german finance minister peer steinbrueck says taxpayers will not foot the bill " it 's not clear how toxic these assets really are , " said finance expert , otto salms of the liberal free democrats -lrb- fdp -rrb- .
" some of these assets may well be worth more again once the crisis ends and the economy recovers .
if that 's the case , the banks may end up having to write off much less at a later date than they would if they were forced to liquidate these assets today . "
economic recovery and financial liquidity go hand in hand .
one of the factors that 's been driving the crisis around the world is that banks have stopped lending to each other because they have n't been able to assess the size of the financial black holes on each other 's balance sheets .
berlin hopes that by removing bad holdings from balance sheets banks will start lending to each other again , as well as to businesses and consumers .
this in turn would help kick-start the german economy , the biggest in europe , which is expected to shrink by six percent this year .
shareholders , not taxpayers , to bear the burden under the plan , which comes five months before a general election , any liabilities at the end of maturity would accrue to shareholders , and not to the taxpayer .
" it 's only right that whoever made profits through taking high risks over the years , must also be prepared to take the losses , " explained financial expert johannes kahrs , of the social democrats -lrb- spd -rrb- , the coalition partners of chancellor angela merkel 's christian democrats -lrb- cdu -rrb- . "
i think that 's reasonable , it 's a basic economic principle . "
some critics say the scheme is flawed because it is voluntary .
banks are not to be forced to dispose of toxic assets through the soffin national rescue program .
the government insists that " good banks " are interesting for investors and a cleaned up , reliable balance sheet will attract capital .
the draft legislation still has to go before both the lower and upper houses of parliament , the bundestag und bundesrat . wl / pfd / afp / ard send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de financial watchdog chief calls for " bad bank " for toxic assets the head of a watchdog committee of germany 's bank stabilization fund has called for the creation of a " bad bank " that could buy up toxic assets and unblock interbank lending .
-lrb- 11.01.2009 -rrb- us mortgage crisis hits german banks the battered subprime mortgage market in the united states is increasingly impacting the us economy .
now , losses from risky us home loans to borrowers with poor credit histories have swept across the atlantic .
-lrb- 31.07.2007 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic the german cabinet backs plan to relieve the country 's banks of their toxic assets 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx - lifestyle europe we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live learning by ear listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive. tourism germany 's north sea coast boasts some of the longest and most attractive beaches in europe .
watch the video dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
pope visits west bank , calls for palestinian statehood -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de religion -pipe- 13.05.2009 pope visits west bank , calls for palestinian statehood großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : palestinians gave an enthusiastic welcome to pope benedict during a visit to bethlehem , pope benedict xvi voiced support for palestinian aspirations of an independent homeland and said he hoped the wall that israel has erected in and around the west bank would come down . speaking in bethlehem after holding a mass in manger square , the pope pressed calls to remove the wall and watch towers that seal bethlehem off from jerusalem .
" towering over us ... is a stark reminder of the stalemate that relations between israelis and palestinians seem to have reached - the wall , " the pope said as he stood in the shadow of israel 's separation wall in the aida refugee camp , which houses refugees from israel 's creation in 1948 .
the pope said it 's " understandable that palestinians feel frustrated , " adding that " their legitimate aspirations for permanent homes , for an independent palestinian state , remain unfulfilled . "
the camp is home to around 5,000 refugees .
bildunterschrift : palestinian children at the aida refugee camp next to a poster of the pope " i have seen , ... overshadowing much of bethlehem , the wall that intrudes into your territories , separating neighbors and dividing families , " the pope said in the town believed to be the birthplace of jesus christ .
" although walls can be easily built , we all know that they do not last forever .
they can be taken down . "
pope lends support to palestinian statehood earlier , thousands greeted the pope 's black limousine as he made his way to manger square where he said mass for about 5,000 people next to the church of the nativity that marks the spot where christians believe jesus was born to mary in a stable .
one of the aims of the pope 's visit is to attempt to preserve a shrinking christian presence in the middle east .
the christian population of bethlehem has decreased dramatically in recent years through emigration . thousands of christians left the town after a palestinian uprising in 2000 and was met by an israeli security clampdown and the start of construction of the barrier .
the pope acknowledged israel 's security concerns as well as palestinian suffering , and urged people not to " resort to acts of violence or terrorism . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : pope benedict xvi outside of the church of the nativity in bethlehem the pope said his heart went out to those caught up in the conflict in gaza , adding that he was praying for an end to the israeli embargo of the gaza strip .
earlier , the pontiff told palestinian president mahmoud abbas that he backed the creation of a palestinian state .
" the holy see supports the right of your people to a sovereign palestinian homeland in the land of your forefathers , secure and at peace with your neighbors , within internationally recognized borders , " he said .
the pope 's comments are the vatican 's strongest and most symbolic public backing yet for an independent palestinian state .
the two-state solution is supported by abbas , arab nations and western powers .
but the new israeli prime minister , benjamin netanyahu , has declined so far to endorse it .
visit dogged by controversy the german-born pope 's week-long trip to the middle east , his first visit to the region , has not been without controversy .
on tuesday , a row erupted over the pope 's membership as a teenager of the hitler youth , as he paid a historic visit to holy sites in jerusalem .
vatican spokesman , federico lombardi , said the pontiff had " never , never , never " belonged to the organization , but later changed his version , saying that he had been a member but his membership was compulsory .
in his own 1997 memoirs , pope benedict had said he had been registered with the hitler youth while he was at a seminary .
the latest row comes on the heels of comments by some israeli leaders complaining that the pope did not go far enough in offering emotion in remarks he made on monday at the yad vashem memorial to the jewish dead of the holocaust . sp , pfd reuters / ap / dpa send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de pope continues balancing act on tour of holy sites in jerusalem pope benedict xvi became the first pope to enter a politically-charged shrine in jerusalem sacred to jews and muslims .
the pope continues to face criticism on the second day of a week-long visit to the region .
-lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- pope continues middle east tour as criticism of yad vashem speech grows pope benedict xvi used a service at jerusalem 's yad vashem memorial to express " deep compassion " for the victims of the holocaust .
but jewish leaders in germany and israel criticized the pope for not going far enough .
-lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- pope seeks to salve holocaust wounds pope benedict xvi is on his first trip to israel .
he has used a speech to seek to heal the wounds created by , among other things , his reinstatement of a holocaust-denying bishop .
-lrb- 11.05.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic pope benedict calls israel 's security barrier in the west bank " tragic " feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
pope visits west bank , calls for palestinian statehood -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 30.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de religion -pipe- 13.05.2009 pope visits west bank , calls for palestinian statehood großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : palestinians gave an enthusiastic welcome to pope benedict during a visit to bethlehem , pope benedict xvi voiced support for palestinian aspirations of an independent homeland and said he hoped the wall that israel has erected in and around the west bank would come down . speaking in bethlehem after holding a mass in manger square , the pope pressed calls to remove the wall and watch towers that seal bethlehem off from jerusalem .
" towering over us ... is a stark reminder of the stalemate that relations between israelis and palestinians seem to have reached - the wall , " the pope said as he stood in the shadow of israel 's separation wall in the aida refugee camp , which houses refugees from israel 's creation in 1948 .
the pope said it 's " understandable that palestinians feel frustrated , " adding that " their legitimate aspirations for permanent homes , for an independent palestinian state , remain unfulfilled . "
the camp is home to around 5,000 refugees .
bildunterschrift : palestinian children at the aida refugee camp next to a poster of the pope " i have seen , ... overshadowing much of bethlehem , the wall that intrudes into your territories , separating neighbors and dividing families , " the pope said in the town believed to be the birthplace of jesus christ .
" although walls can be easily built , we all know that they do not last forever .
they can be taken down . "
pope lends support to palestinian statehood earlier , thousands greeted the pope 's black limousine as he made his way to manger square where he said mass for about 5,000 people next to the church of the nativity that marks the spot where christians believe jesus was born to mary in a stable .
one of the aims of the pope 's visit is to attempt to preserve a shrinking christian presence in the middle east .
the christian population of bethlehem has decreased dramatically in recent years through emigration . thousands of christians left the town after a palestinian uprising in 2000 and was met by an israeli security clampdown and the start of construction of the barrier .
the pope acknowledged israel 's security concerns as well as palestinian suffering , and urged people not to " resort to acts of violence or terrorism . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : pope benedict xvi outside of the church of the nativity in bethlehem the pope said his heart went out to those caught up in the conflict in gaza , adding that he was praying for an end to the israeli embargo of the gaza strip .
earlier , the pontiff told palestinian president mahmoud abbas that he backed the creation of a palestinian state .
" the holy see supports the right of your people to a sovereign palestinian homeland in the land of your forefathers , secure and at peace with your neighbors , within internationally recognized borders , " he said .
the pope 's comments are the vatican 's strongest and most symbolic public backing yet for an independent palestinian state .
the two-state solution is supported by abbas , arab nations and western powers .
but the new israeli prime minister , benjamin netanyahu , has declined so far to endorse it .
visit dogged by controversy the german-born pope 's week-long trip to the middle east , his first visit to the region , has not been without controversy .
on tuesday , a row erupted over the pope 's membership as a teenager of the hitler youth , as he paid a historic visit to holy sites in jerusalem .
vatican spokesman , federico lombardi , said the pontiff had " never , never , never " belonged to the organization , but later changed his version , saying that he had been a member but his membership was compulsory .
in his own 1997 memoirs , pope benedict had said he had been registered with the hitler youth while he was at a seminary .
the latest row comes on the heels of comments by some israeli leaders complaining that the pope did not go far enough in offering emotion in remarks he made on monday at the yad vashem memorial to the jewish dead of the holocaust . sp , pfd reuters / ap / dpa send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de pope continues balancing act on tour of holy sites in jerusalem pope benedict xvi became the first pope to enter a politically-charged shrine in jerusalem sacred to jews and muslims .
the pope continues to face criticism on the second day of a week-long visit to the region .
-lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- pope continues middle east tour as criticism of yad vashem speech grows pope benedict xvi used a service at jerusalem 's yad vashem memorial to express " deep compassion " for the victims of the holocaust .
but jewish leaders in germany and israel criticized the pope for not going far enough .
-lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- pope seeks to salve holocaust wounds pope benedict xvi is on his first trip to israel .
he has used a speech to seek to heal the wounds created by , among other things , his reinstatement of a holocaust-denying bishop .
-lrb- 11.05.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic pope benedict calls israel 's security barrier in the west bank " tragic " feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
pope visits west bank , calls for palestinian statehood -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 16.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de religion -pipe- 13.05.2009 pope visits west bank , calls for palestinian statehood großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : palestinians gave an enthusiastic welcome to pope benedict during a visit to bethlehem , pope benedict xvi voiced support for palestinian aspirations of an independent homeland and said he hoped the wall that israel has erected in and around the west bank would come down . speaking in bethlehem after holding a mass in manger square , the pope pressed calls to remove the wall and watch towers that seal bethlehem off from jerusalem .
" towering over us ... is a stark reminder of the stalemate that relations between israelis and palestinians seem to have reached - the wall , " the pope said as he stood in the shadow of israel 's separation wall in the aida refugee camp , which houses refugees from israel 's creation in 1948 .
the pope said it 's " understandable that palestinians feel frustrated , " adding that " their legitimate aspirations for permanent homes , for an independent palestinian state , remain unfulfilled . "
the camp is home to around 5,000 refugees .
bildunterschrift : palestinian children at the aida refugee camp next to a poster of the pope " i have seen , ... overshadowing much of bethlehem , the wall that intrudes into your territories , separating neighbors and dividing families , " the pope said in the town believed to be the birthplace of jesus christ .
" although walls can be easily built , we all know that they do not last forever .
they can be taken down . "
pope lends support to palestinian statehood earlier , thousands greeted the pope 's black limousine as he made his way to manger square where he said mass for about 5,000 people next to the church of the nativity that marks the spot where christians believe jesus was born to mary in a stable .
one of the aims of the pope 's visit is to attempt to preserve a shrinking christian presence in the middle east .
the christian population of bethlehem has decreased dramatically in recent years through emigration . thousands of christians left the town after a palestinian uprising in 2000 and was met by an israeli security clampdown and the start of construction of the barrier .
the pope acknowledged israel 's security concerns as well as palestinian suffering , and urged people not to " resort to acts of violence or terrorism . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : pope benedict xvi outside of the church of the nativity in bethlehem the pope said his heart went out to those caught up in the conflict in gaza , adding that he was praying for an end to the israeli embargo of the gaza strip .
earlier , the pontiff told palestinian president mahmoud abbas that he backed the creation of a palestinian state .
" the holy see supports the right of your people to a sovereign palestinian homeland in the land of your forefathers , secure and at peace with your neighbors , within internationally recognized borders , " he said .
the pope 's comments are the vatican 's strongest and most symbolic public backing yet for an independent palestinian state .
the two-state solution is supported by abbas , arab nations and western powers .
but the new israeli prime minister , benjamin netanyahu , has declined so far to endorse it .
visit dogged by controversy the german-born pope 's week-long trip to the middle east , his first visit to the region , has not been without controversy .
on tuesday , a row erupted over the pope 's membership as a teenager of the hitler youth , as he paid a historic visit to holy sites in jerusalem .
vatican spokesman , federico lombardi , said the pontiff had " never , never , never " belonged to the organization , but later changed his version , saying that he had been a member but his membership was compulsory .
in his own 1997 memoirs , pope benedict had said he had been registered with the hitler youth while he was at a seminary .
the latest row comes on the heels of comments by some israeli leaders complaining that the pope did not go far enough in offering emotion in remarks he made on monday at the yad vashem memorial to the jewish dead of the holocaust . sp , pfd reuters / ap / dpa send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de pope continues balancing act on tour of holy sites in jerusalem pope benedict xvi became the first pope to enter a politically-charged shrine in jerusalem sacred to jews and muslims .
the pope continues to face criticism on the second day of a week-long visit to the region .
-lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- pope continues middle east tour as criticism of yad vashem speech grows pope benedict xvi used a service at jerusalem 's yad vashem memorial to express " deep compassion " for the victims of the holocaust .
but jewish leaders in germany and israel criticized the pope for not going far enough .
-lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- pope seeks to salve holocaust wounds pope benedict xvi is on his first trip to israel .
he has used a speech to seek to heal the wounds created by , among other things , his reinstatement of a holocaust-denying bishop .
-lrb- 11.05.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic pope benedict calls israel 's security barrier in the west bank " tragic " feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
pope visits west bank , calls for palestinian statehood -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de religion -pipe- 13.05.2009 pope visits west bank , calls for palestinian statehood großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : palestinians gave an enthusiastic welcome to pope benedict during a visit to bethlehem , pope benedict xvi voiced support for palestinian aspirations of an independent homeland and said he hoped the wall that israel has erected in and around the west bank would come down . speaking in bethlehem after holding a mass in manger square , the pope pressed calls to remove the wall and watch towers that seal bethlehem off from jerusalem .
" towering over us ... is a stark reminder of the stalemate that relations between israelis and palestinians seem to have reached - the wall , " the pope said as he stood in the shadow of israel 's separation wall in the aida refugee camp , which houses refugees from israel 's creation in 1948 .
the pope said it 's " understandable that palestinians feel frustrated , " adding that " their legitimate aspirations for permanent homes , for an independent palestinian state , remain unfulfilled . "
the camp is home to around 5,000 refugees .
bildunterschrift : palestinian children at the aida refugee camp next to a poster of the pope " i have seen , ... overshadowing much of bethlehem , the wall that intrudes into your territories , separating neighbors and dividing families , " the pope said in the town believed to be the birthplace of jesus christ .
" although walls can be easily built , we all know that they do not last forever .
they can be taken down . "
pope lends support to palestinian statehood earlier , thousands greeted the pope 's black limousine as he made his way to manger square where he said mass for about 5,000 people next to the church of the nativity that marks the spot where christians believe jesus was born to mary in a stable .
one of the aims of the pope 's visit is to attempt to preserve a shrinking christian presence in the middle east .
the christian population of bethlehem has decreased dramatically in recent years through emigration . thousands of christians left the town after a palestinian uprising in 2000 and was met by an israeli security clampdown and the start of construction of the barrier .
the pope acknowledged israel 's security concerns as well as palestinian suffering , and urged people not to " resort to acts of violence or terrorism . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : pope benedict xvi outside of the church of the nativity in bethlehem the pope said his heart went out to those caught up in the conflict in gaza , adding that he was praying for an end to the israeli embargo of the gaza strip .
earlier , the pontiff told palestinian president mahmoud abbas that he backed the creation of a palestinian state .
" the holy see supports the right of your people to a sovereign palestinian homeland in the land of your forefathers , secure and at peace with your neighbors , within internationally recognized borders , " he said .
the pope 's comments are the vatican 's strongest and most symbolic public backing yet for an independent palestinian state .
the two-state solution is supported by abbas , arab nations and western powers .
but the new israeli prime minister , benjamin netanyahu , has declined so far to endorse it .
visit dogged by controversy the german-born pope 's week-long trip to the middle east , his first visit to the region , has not been without controversy .
on tuesday , a row erupted over the pope 's membership as a teenager of the hitler youth , as he paid a historic visit to holy sites in jerusalem .
vatican spokesman , federico lombardi , said the pontiff had " never , never , never " belonged to the organization , but later changed his version , saying that he had been a member but his membership was compulsory .
in his own 1997 memoirs , pope benedict had said he had been registered with the hitler youth while he was at a seminary .
the latest row comes on the heels of comments by some israeli leaders complaining that the pope did not go far enough in offering emotion in remarks he made on monday at the yad vashem memorial to the jewish dead of the holocaust . sp , pfd reuters / ap / dpa send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de pope continues balancing act on tour of holy sites in jerusalem pope benedict xvi became the first pope to enter a politically-charged shrine in jerusalem sacred to jews and muslims .
the pope continues to face criticism on the second day of a week-long visit to the region .
-lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- pope continues middle east tour as criticism of yad vashem speech grows pope benedict xvi used a service at jerusalem 's yad vashem memorial to express " deep compassion " for the victims of the holocaust .
but jewish leaders in germany and israel criticized the pope for not going far enough .
-lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- pope seeks to salve holocaust wounds pope benedict xvi is on his first trip to israel .
he has used a speech to seek to heal the wounds created by , among other things , his reinstatement of a holocaust-denying bishop .
-lrb- 11.05.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic pope benedict calls israel 's security barrier in the west bank " tragic " feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
pope visits west bank , calls for palestinian statehood -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 22.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de religion -pipe- 13.05.2009 pope visits west bank , calls for palestinian statehood großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : palestinians gave an enthusiastic welcome to pope benedict during a visit to bethlehem , pope benedict xvi voiced support for palestinian aspirations of an independent homeland and said he hoped the wall that israel has erected in and around the west bank would come down . speaking in bethlehem after holding a mass in manger square , the pope pressed calls to remove the wall and watch towers that seal bethlehem off from jerusalem .
" towering over us ... is a stark reminder of the stalemate that relations between israelis and palestinians seem to have reached - the wall , " the pope said as he stood in the shadow of israel 's separation wall in the aida refugee camp , which houses refugees from israel 's creation in 1948 .
the pope said it 's " understandable that palestinians feel frustrated , " adding that " their legitimate aspirations for permanent homes , for an independent palestinian state , remain unfulfilled . "
the camp is home to around 5,000 refugees .
bildunterschrift : palestinian children at the aida refugee camp next to a poster of the pope " i have seen , ... overshadowing much of bethlehem , the wall that intrudes into your territories , separating neighbors and dividing families , " the pope said in the town believed to be the birthplace of jesus christ .
" although walls can be easily built , we all know that they do not last forever .
they can be taken down . "
pope lends support to palestinian statehood earlier , thousands greeted the pope 's black limousine as he made his way to manger square where he said mass for about 5,000 people next to the church of the nativity that marks the spot where christians believe jesus was born to mary in a stable .
one of the aims of the pope 's visit is to attempt to preserve a shrinking christian presence in the middle east .
the christian population of bethlehem has decreased dramatically in recent years through emigration . thousands of christians left the town after a palestinian uprising in 2000 and was met by an israeli security clampdown and the start of construction of the barrier .
the pope acknowledged israel 's security concerns as well as palestinian suffering , and urged people not to " resort to acts of violence or terrorism . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : pope benedict xvi outside of the church of the nativity in bethlehem the pope said his heart went out to those caught up in the conflict in gaza , adding that he was praying for an end to the israeli embargo of the gaza strip .
earlier , the pontiff told palestinian president mahmoud abbas that he backed the creation of a palestinian state .
" the holy see supports the right of your people to a sovereign palestinian homeland in the land of your forefathers , secure and at peace with your neighbors , within internationally recognized borders , " he said .
the pope 's comments are the vatican 's strongest and most symbolic public backing yet for an independent palestinian state .
the two-state solution is supported by abbas , arab nations and western powers .
but the new israeli prime minister , benjamin netanyahu , has declined so far to endorse it .
visit dogged by controversy the german-born pope 's week-long trip to the middle east , his first visit to the region , has not been without controversy .
on tuesday , a row erupted over the pope 's membership as a teenager of the hitler youth , as he paid a historic visit to holy sites in jerusalem .
vatican spokesman , federico lombardi , said the pontiff had " never , never , never " belonged to the organization , but later changed his version , saying that he had been a member but his membership was compulsory .
in his own 1997 memoirs , pope benedict had said he had been registered with the hitler youth while he was at a seminary .
the latest row comes on the heels of comments by some israeli leaders complaining that the pope did not go far enough in offering emotion in remarks he made on monday at the yad vashem memorial to the jewish dead of the holocaust . sp , pfd reuters / ap / dpa send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de pope continues balancing act on tour of holy sites in jerusalem pope benedict xvi became the first pope to enter a politically-charged shrine in jerusalem sacred to jews and muslims .
the pope continues to face criticism on the second day of a week-long visit to the region .
-lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- pope continues middle east tour as criticism of yad vashem speech grows pope benedict xvi used a service at jerusalem 's yad vashem memorial to express " deep compassion " for the victims of the holocaust .
but jewish leaders in germany and israel criticized the pope for not going far enough .
-lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- pope seeks to salve holocaust wounds pope benedict xvi is on his first trip to israel .
he has used a speech to seek to heal the wounds created by , among other things , his reinstatement of a holocaust-denying bishop .
-lrb- 11.05.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic pope benedict calls israel 's security barrier in the west bank " tragic " 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
van gaal to become next bayern munich coach -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de soccer -pipe- 13.05.2009 van gaal to become next bayern munich coach großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : futuer bayern munich head coach louis van gaal bayern munich are set to sign dutch coach louis van gaal ending weeks of speculation over who will be in charge of the bundesliga soccer club next season . bayern munich have confirmed that dutch coach louis van gaal will join the defending bundesliga champions as head coach on a two-year contract as of july 1 .
he is to replace interim coach jupp heynkes , who took over after juergen klinsmann was fired last month .
the coach who has led az alkmaar to their first dutch league title since 1981 , had been bayern 's first choice for the job . other managers under consideration are said to have included inter manager jose mourinho and arsenal 's arsene wenger .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bayern chairman karl-heinz rummenigge munich pleased with choice " we are happy that in louis van gaal we have managed to secure such an experienced and successful coach for bayern munich , " said bayern chairman karl-heinz rummenigge in a statement posted on the club 's website on wednesday .
having steered ajax to the champions league title in 1995 , van gaal , 57 , has a wealth of experience having also led the giants from amsterdam to consecutive dutch titles in 1994 , 1995 and 1996 .
after leading barcelona to back-to-back spanish league titles in 1998 and 1999 , the only blip in an otherwise exceptional career was when he took charge of the netherlands in 2000 .
when the dutch failed to reach the world cup finals in japan and south korea in 2002 , he was replaced by dick advocaat .
van gaal inherits a squad that is level on points with bundesliga leaders wolfsburg with two games remaining in the season .
he is expected to be closely involved in transfer decisions at the end of this season .
in return for alkmaar agreeing to release van gaal before his contract expires , bayern have agreed to play a friendly against alkmaar in the summer of 2010 without charging a fee . nt / pfd , sid / reuters / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ? 9798 dw-tv europe live made in germany - the business magazine we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live pulse listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-radio listen to the latest from german soccer on dw-radio .
sports report anti-racism girls wanted : scouting for germany 's next generation of female football talent listen to the audio art women 's football - a source of inspiration watch the video video women 's soccer is more popular than ever in the us .
watch the video final standings click here for the final 2010-11 bundesliga table . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
cannes rolls out the world 's most famous red carpet once again -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.03.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de film -pipe- 13.05.2009 cannes rolls out the world 's most famous red carpet once again großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : in a cannes first , an animated film opened the festival each may , a festival held on the french riviera draws a collection of the world 's leading cinema minds from all corners of the globe : the cannes film festival .
this year 's edition kicked off on wednesday . the 62nd gathering of cinema 's elite in the resort town of cannes , which sits on france 's mediterranean coast , remains one of the world 's most esteemed and prestigious film festivals .
to win the coveted palme d 'or prize for best film at cannes could be described as a crowning achievement for any producer , director , actor or film studio involved in the production .
unlike other well-known film festivals , such as those in berlin and venice , the focus at cannes is usually on aesthetics : beautiful cinema .
though this year 's 20 entries take on more brutal tones .
this includes american quentin tarantino 's ultra-violent " inglourious basterds , " about a group of bloodthirsty nazi hunters , and korean park chan wook 's priest-turned-vampire flick " bak-jwi " -lrb- " thirst " -rrb- , which has already been racing up the movie charts in his home country .
maverick danish director lars von trier also raises the horror notch this year with his " antichrist , " in which willem dafoe and charlotte gainsbourg find themselves confronting their inner fears and some dark forces in a deserted cabin in the woods .
bildunterschrift : german director wim wenders ' film " paris , texas " is a past winner at cannes german co-production this year also sees a motion picture from germany-born director michael haneke , who directed the 2001 palme d 'or-winning film " the piano teacher . "
his latest cannes entry , " das weisse band " -lrb- " the white ribbon " -rrb- , is set in a village in protestant northern germany in 1913 .
haneke 's tale recreates a country on the eve of world war i , told through the lives of members of a youth choir run by the village school teacher and their families .
little more has been written about the film , the result of haneke 's strict policy of silence in the lead up to his films ' openings .
the film was a joint production between studios in germany , france , austria and italy .
if " the white ribbon " finds success at cannes this year , it would not be the first german co-production to make a name for itself at the festival .
in 1979 , volker schloendorff 's screen adaptation of " die blechtrommel " -lrb- " the tin drum " -rrb- took the top prize , as did wim wenders ' 1984 film " paris , texas . "
new and old faces bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : de niro will always be remembered for his leading role in " taxi driver " these films went on to become part of cinematic history , as do most palme d 'or winners .
this venerated list includes francis ford coppola 's " apocalypse now , " bunuel 's " viridiana , " visconti 's " the leopard " and scorsese 's " taxi driver . "
this year , all eyes will be on 3-d comedy " up " from us director pete docter , which is the first animated film to open the 12-day festival .
the story features an old man who ties balloons to his house in the hope of fulfilling a boyhood dream of flying to south america .
meanwhile , a man bent on avenging the death of his daughter in hong kong director jonnie to 's " vengeance " is also screening , and seven years after shaking up a storm in cannes with his story of rape in " irreversible , " france 's gaspar noe is back at the festival with " enter the void " about a brutal murder .
belt tightening bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the glitterati wo n't be stopped by the financial crisis with the economic crisis having cut a swathe through the world film industry over the last year , filmmakers from hollywood through to bollywood have faced cost-cutting , studio layoffs and an ever more cautious army of producers and movie financiers .
already signs have emerged that the motion picture business has scaled back plans for the lavish parties and extravagant promotional events that have always been a feature of the festival .
but all bets are that whatever the economic climate , this year 's gathering is still likely to celebrate movie-making and the cult of the celebrity with considerable style and flair . dfm / pfd / dpa / afp / reuters send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de germany 's film industry celebrates banner year in 2008 german productions contributed decisively to a banner year in the nation 's film industry in 2008 , continuing last year 's upbeat trend .
-lrb- 05.02.2009 -rrb- lights , camera , action for kosslick as berlinale approaches armed with a mischievous smile and twinkling eyes , dieter kosslick revels in his role as the director of the berlinale , which kicks off this year with a film about the illegal machinations of an international bank .
-lrb- 03.02.2009 -rrb- german love triangle squares off at venice film festival " jerichow , " a love triangle by german director christian petzold , screened at the venice film festival , the first german entry competing for the golden lion since 2004 .
it faces strong competition from the us and italy .
-lrb- 29.08.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
food try these recipes for a taste of europe .
hearty irish stew knödel dumplings with meat filling ribolitta from florence berlin-style pork with potatoes fish from lake traunsee in austria cologne fish with gourmet twist sweet-savory pheasant from leeds escudella vegetable and meat soup podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's new free podcast .
' clip ' homepage clip no. 10 - 1000 robota with a new take on punk subscribe on itunes get the rss feed word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
soundscape 100 concert hour arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth news quiz test your knowledge with the news quiz ! © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
cannes rolls out the world 's most famous red carpet once again -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de film -pipe- 13.05.2009 cannes rolls out the world 's most famous red carpet once again großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : in a cannes first , an animated film opened the festival each may , a festival held on the french riviera draws a collection of the world 's leading cinema minds from all corners of the globe : the cannes film festival .
this year 's edition kicked off on wednesday . the 62nd gathering of cinema 's elite in the resort town of cannes , which sits on france 's mediterranean coast , remains one of the world 's most esteemed and prestigious film festivals .
to win the coveted palme d 'or prize for best film at cannes could be described as a crowning achievement for any producer , director , actor or film studio involved in the production .
unlike other well-known film festivals , such as those in berlin and venice , the focus at cannes is usually on aesthetics : beautiful cinema .
though this year 's 20 entries take on more brutal tones .
this includes american quentin tarantino 's ultra-violent " inglourious basterds , " about a group of bloodthirsty nazi hunters , and korean park chan wook 's priest-turned-vampire flick " bak-jwi " -lrb- " thirst " -rrb- , which has already been racing up the movie charts in his home country .
maverick danish director lars von trier also raises the horror notch this year with his " antichrist , " in which willem dafoe and charlotte gainsbourg find themselves confronting their inner fears and some dark forces in a deserted cabin in the woods .
bildunterschrift : german director wim wenders ' film " paris , texas " is a past winner at cannes german co-production this year also sees a motion picture from germany-born director michael haneke , who directed the 2001 palme d 'or-winning film " the piano teacher . "
his latest cannes entry , " das weisse band " -lrb- " the white ribbon " -rrb- , is set in a village in protestant northern germany in 1913 .
haneke 's tale recreates a country on the eve of world war i , told through the lives of members of a youth choir run by the village school teacher and their families .
little more has been written about the film , the result of haneke 's strict policy of silence in the lead up to his films ' openings .
the film was a joint production between studios in germany , france , austria and italy .
if " the white ribbon " finds success at cannes this year , it would not be the first german co-production to make a name for itself at the festival .
in 1979 , volker schloendorff 's screen adaptation of " die blechtrommel " -lrb- " the tin drum " -rrb- took the top prize , as did wim wenders ' 1984 film " paris , texas . "
new and old faces bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : de niro will always be remembered for his leading role in " taxi driver " these films went on to become part of cinematic history , as do most palme d 'or winners .
this venerated list includes francis ford coppola 's " apocalypse now , " bunuel 's " viridiana , " visconti 's " the leopard " and scorsese 's " taxi driver . "
this year , all eyes will be on 3-d comedy " up " from us director pete docter , which is the first animated film to open the 12-day festival .
the story features an old man who ties balloons to his house in the hope of fulfilling a boyhood dream of flying to south america .
meanwhile , a man bent on avenging the death of his daughter in hong kong director jonnie to 's " vengeance " is also screening , and seven years after shaking up a storm in cannes with his story of rape in " irreversible , " france 's gaspar noe is back at the festival with " enter the void " about a brutal murder .
belt tightening bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the glitterati wo n't be stopped by the financial crisis with the economic crisis having cut a swathe through the world film industry over the last year , filmmakers from hollywood through to bollywood have faced cost-cutting , studio layoffs and an ever more cautious army of producers and movie financiers .
already signs have emerged that the motion picture business has scaled back plans for the lavish parties and extravagant promotional events that have always been a feature of the festival .
but all bets are that whatever the economic climate , this year 's gathering is still likely to celebrate movie-making and the cult of the celebrity with considerable style and flair . dfm / pfd / dpa / afp / reuters send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de germany 's film industry celebrates banner year in 2008 german productions contributed decisively to a banner year in the nation 's film industry in 2008 , continuing last year 's upbeat trend .
-lrb- 05.02.2009 -rrb- lights , camera , action for kosslick as berlinale approaches armed with a mischievous smile and twinkling eyes , dieter kosslick revels in his role as the director of the berlinale , which kicks off this year with a film about the illegal machinations of an international bank .
-lrb- 03.02.2009 -rrb- german love triangle squares off at venice film festival " jerichow , " a love triangle by german director christian petzold , screened at the venice film festival , the first german entry competing for the golden lion since 2004 .
it faces strong competition from the us and italy .
-lrb- 29.08.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live arts on the air listen live audio slide show aerial theater a young norwegian acrobat is following her passion - despite rope burns .
music dw presents podcasts of performances by top artists at the 2010 beethovenfest .
podcasts on itunes more on beethoven podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's new free podcast .
clip no. 1 - luis und laserpower clip no. 2 - abel & cain clip no. 3 - baby benzin clip no. 4 - the intersphere clip no. 5 - shantel clip no. 6 - klee subscribe on itunes get the rss feed word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
hits in germany concert hour music this week arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
pope visits west bank , calls for palestinian statehood -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de religion -pipe- 13.05.2009 pope visits west bank , calls for palestinian statehood großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : palestinians gave an enthusiastic welcome to pope benedict during a visit to bethlehem , pope benedict xvi voiced support for palestinian aspirations of an independent homeland and said he hoped the wall that israel has erected in and around the west bank would come down . speaking in bethlehem after holding a mass in manger square , the pope pressed calls to remove the wall and watch towers that seal bethlehem off from jerusalem .
" towering over us ... is a stark reminder of the stalemate that relations between israelis and palestinians seem to have reached - the wall , " the pope said as he stood in the shadow of israel 's separation wall in the aida refugee camp , which houses refugees from israel 's creation in 1948 .
the pope said it 's " understandable that palestinians feel frustrated , " adding that " their legitimate aspirations for permanent homes , for an independent palestinian state , remain unfulfilled . "
the camp is home to around 5,000 refugees .
bildunterschrift : palestinian children at the aida refugee camp next to a poster of the pope " i have seen , ... overshadowing much of bethlehem , the wall that intrudes into your territories , separating neighbors and dividing families , " the pope said in the town believed to be the birthplace of jesus christ .
" although walls can be easily built , we all know that they do not last forever .
they can be taken down . "
pope lends support to palestinian statehood earlier , thousands greeted the pope 's black limousine as he made his way to manger square where he said mass for about 5,000 people next to the church of the nativity that marks the spot where christians believe jesus was born to mary in a stable .
one of the aims of the pope 's visit is to attempt to preserve a shrinking christian presence in the middle east .
the christian population of bethlehem has decreased dramatically in recent years through emigration . thousands of christians left the town after a palestinian uprising in 2000 and was met by an israeli security clampdown and the start of construction of the barrier .
the pope acknowledged israel 's security concerns as well as palestinian suffering , and urged people not to " resort to acts of violence or terrorism . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : pope benedict xvi outside of the church of the nativity in bethlehem the pope said his heart went out to those caught up in the conflict in gaza , adding that he was praying for an end to the israeli embargo of the gaza strip .
earlier , the pontiff told palestinian president mahmoud abbas that he backed the creation of a palestinian state .
" the holy see supports the right of your people to a sovereign palestinian homeland in the land of your forefathers , secure and at peace with your neighbors , within internationally recognized borders , " he said .
the pope 's comments are the vatican 's strongest and most symbolic public backing yet for an independent palestinian state .
the two-state solution is supported by abbas , arab nations and western powers .
but the new israeli prime minister , benjamin netanyahu , has declined so far to endorse it .
visit dogged by controversy the german-born pope 's week-long trip to the middle east , his first visit to the region , has not been without controversy .
on tuesday , a row erupted over the pope 's membership as a teenager of the hitler youth , as he paid a historic visit to holy sites in jerusalem .
vatican spokesman , federico lombardi , said the pontiff had " never , never , never " belonged to the organization , but later changed his version , saying that he had been a member but his membership was compulsory .
in his own 1997 memoirs , pope benedict had said he had been registered with the hitler youth while he was at a seminary .
the latest row comes on the heels of comments by some israeli leaders complaining that the pope did not go far enough in offering emotion in remarks he made on monday at the yad vashem memorial to the jewish dead of the holocaust . sp , pfd reuters / ap / dpa send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de pope continues balancing act on tour of holy sites in jerusalem pope benedict xvi became the first pope to enter a politically-charged shrine in jerusalem sacred to jews and muslims .
the pope continues to face criticism on the second day of a week-long visit to the region .
-lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- pope continues middle east tour as criticism of yad vashem speech grows pope benedict xvi used a service at jerusalem 's yad vashem memorial to express " deep compassion " for the victims of the holocaust .
but jewish leaders in germany and israel criticized the pope for not going far enough .
-lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- pope seeks to salve holocaust wounds pope benedict xvi is on his first trip to israel .
he has used a speech to seek to heal the wounds created by , among other things , his reinstatement of a holocaust-denying bishop .
-lrb- 11.05.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic pope benedict calls israel 's security barrier in the west bank " tragic " 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
sobibor survivor : demjanjuk trial will go down in history -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 23.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de world war ii -pipe- 13.05.2009 sobibor survivor : demjanjuk trial will go down in history großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some 250,000 jews , gypsies and political prisoners were murdered in sobibor 's gas chambers deutsche welle spoke with thomas blatt , one of few to escape from the nazi-run sobibor extermination camp .
he says he does n't care whether john demjanjuk is jailed for working at the camp , just that he tells the truth . thomas blatt was one of the few to survive the sobibor extermination camp in nazi-occupied poland during world war ii .
the 82-year-old is now a key witness in the munich trial of john demjanjuk , who is alleged to have been a guard at sobibor .
deutsche welle : why did you decide to come to germany for this trial ?
thomas blatt : because when i escaped from sobibor , i promised myself that if i survived , i will do everything to tell the story of sobibor .
and that 's what i 'm doing .
and i know that demjanjuk knows a lot , because demjanjuk was in the middle of the holocaust .
and he denies that it is him , that he was not a guard at sobibor , but he was .
i do n't care if demjanjuk is in jail or not .
i do care that he should tell the truth .
and the truth is , that he was a guard at sobibor .
sobibor was not a simple concentration camp .
sobibor was an extermination camp .
at sobibor the guards were simple murderers .
in a concentration camp a guard was a guard , … responsible -lsb- for preventing -rsb- people from running away .
but at sobibor they were simple murderers .
you said that among the guards at sobibor some were sadistic .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : demjanjuk 's wartime identification card is a major piece of evidence against him i said that they were sadistic and that some guards escaped from sobibor .
but demjanjuk did not escape .
he was there all the time with the nazis .
i do n't say that i -lsb- saw -rsb- him for sure .
-lsb- the guards -rsb- were very sadistic .
and we were more afraid of the guards than we were of the germans .
i 'm sure i know that he was a guard .
it is my duty to tell .
he should tell what sobibor was for .
what will be your reaction if there is not enough evidence to find mr. demjanjuk guilty ?
i believe that he will tell the truth , the way it was in sobibor .
and this will be part of history .
this will be -lsb- something -rsb- for the new generation to learn .
because what he has seen , few people have seen .
i strongly believe he will tell the truth .
and later demjanjuk could go free .
for me his testimony is very important , and that 's why i am in munich following demjanjuk 's story .
i am sorry in a way for demjanjuk .
he 's an old man , 89 years old .
he 's sick , he has a family .
so i 'm sorry in a way .
and i think that many people think the same way : he 's an old man , he 's suffered so much .
but i also see the other side of demjanjuk .
i see him as a terrible sadist , a murderer .
he did n't run away from his work .
interview : michael lawton editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de suspected nazi prison camp guard deported to germany the us has deported an alleged former nazi prison camp guard to germany .
jewish leaders hailed john demjanjuk 's deportation , saying they hoped it was n't too late for the 89-year-old to be brought to justice .
-lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- opinion : no statute of limitations on horrors of the holocaust after decades of judicial wrangling , the alleged nazi criminal john demjanjuk is to stand trial in germany .
on tuesday he was flown to munich and brought to a prison awaiting trial .
cornelia rabitz has this commentary : -lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- us seeks to clear path for demjanjuk deportation , again the us government has sought to clear the way to deport alleged former death camp guard john demjanjuk , just days after a us court postponed his deportation to wait for proof that he is fit to travel to germany .
-lrb- 21.04.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic michael lawton talks to raphael gross of the fritz bauer institute for holocaust studies about john demjanjuk nazi war crimes suspect john demjanjuk deported to germany -lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
in depth focus on libya dw-world looks at the turmoil in libya : what it means for tripoli and the rest of the world .
podcast series cornelius in liberia changes lives by talking about sex on the radio .
download the report subscribe to the series on itunes past episodes climate change check out deutsche welle 's multimedia coverage of people and projects combating climate change .
the global ideas page learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
sobibor survivor : demjanjuk trial will go down in history -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 14.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de world war ii -pipe- 13.05.2009 sobibor survivor : demjanjuk trial will go down in history großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some 250,000 jews , gypsies and political prisoners were murdered in sobibor 's gas chambers deutsche welle spoke with thomas blatt , one of few to escape from the nazi-run sobibor extermination camp .
he says he does n't care whether john demjanjuk is jailed for working at the camp , just that he tells the truth . thomas blatt was one of the few to survive the sobibor extermination camp in nazi-occupied poland during world war ii .
the 82-year-old is now a key witness in the munich trial of john demjanjuk , who is alleged to have been a guard at sobibor .
deutsche welle : why did you decide to come to germany for this trial ?
thomas blatt : because when i escaped from sobibor , i promised myself that if i survived , i will do everything to tell the story of sobibor .
and that 's what i 'm doing .
and i know that demjanjuk knows a lot , because demjanjuk was in the middle of the holocaust .
and he denies that it is him , that he was not a guard at sobibor , but he was .
i do n't care if demjanjuk is in jail or not .
i do care that he should tell the truth .
and the truth is , that he was a guard at sobibor .
sobibor was not a simple concentration camp .
sobibor was an extermination camp .
at sobibor the guards were simple murderers .
in a concentration camp a guard was a guard , … responsible -lsb- for preventing -rsb- people from running away .
but at sobibor they were simple murderers .
you said that among the guards at sobibor some were sadistic .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : demjanjuk 's wartime identification card is a major piece of evidence against him i said that they were sadistic and that some guards escaped from sobibor .
but demjanjuk did not escape .
he was there all the time with the nazis .
i do n't say that i -lsb- saw -rsb- him for sure .
-lsb- the guards -rsb- were very sadistic .
and we were more afraid of the guards than we were of the germans .
i 'm sure i know that he was a guard .
it is my duty to tell .
he should tell what sobibor was for .
what will be your reaction if there is not enough evidence to find mr. demjanjuk guilty ?
i believe that he will tell the truth , the way it was in sobibor .
and this will be part of history .
this will be -lsb- something -rsb- for the new generation to learn .
because what he has seen , few people have seen .
i strongly believe he will tell the truth .
and later demjanjuk could go free .
for me his testimony is very important , and that 's why i am in munich following demjanjuk 's story .
i am sorry in a way for demjanjuk .
he 's an old man , 89 years old .
he 's sick , he has a family .
so i 'm sorry in a way .
and i think that many people think the same way : he 's an old man , he 's suffered so much .
but i also see the other side of demjanjuk .
i see him as a terrible sadist , a murderer .
he did n't run away from his work .
interview : michael lawton editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de suspected nazi prison camp guard deported to germany the us has deported an alleged former nazi prison camp guard to germany .
jewish leaders hailed john demjanjuk 's deportation , saying they hoped it was n't too late for the 89-year-old to be brought to justice .
-lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- opinion : no statute of limitations on horrors of the holocaust after decades of judicial wrangling , the alleged nazi criminal john demjanjuk is to stand trial in germany .
on tuesday he was flown to munich and brought to a prison awaiting trial .
cornelia rabitz has this commentary : -lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- us seeks to clear path for demjanjuk deportation , again the us government has sought to clear the way to deport alleged former death camp guard john demjanjuk , just days after a us court postponed his deportation to wait for proof that he is fit to travel to germany .
-lrb- 21.04.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic michael lawton talks to raphael gross of the fritz bauer institute for holocaust studies about john demjanjuk nazi war crimes suspect john demjanjuk deported to germany -lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
revolution calling women have played a crucial role in the arab uprisings , using the internet to spread the message .
watch the video security concerns there is a growing connection between security and natural resources .
listen to the interview podcast series life without the arts would be a lot less colorful , but guides like lukas help experience the arts .
download the podcast international conference media representatives around the world gather in bonn to discuss human rights .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
sobibor survivor : demjanjuk trial will go down in history -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 19.12.2010 home news germany europe world from tierra del fuego to tijuana asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de world war ii -pipe- 13.05.2009 sobibor survivor : demjanjuk trial will go down in history großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some 250,000 jews , gypsies and political prisoners were murdered in sobibor 's gas chambers deutsche welle spoke with thomas blatt , one of few to escape from the nazi-run sobibor extermination camp .
he says he does n't care whether john demjanjuk is jailed for working at the camp , just that he tells the truth . thomas blatt was one of the few to survive the sobibor extermination camp in nazi-occupied poland during world war ii .
the 82-year-old is now a key witness in the munich trial of john demjanjuk , who is alleged to have been a guard at sobibor .
deutsche welle : why did you decide to come to germany for this trial ?
thomas blatt : because when i escaped from sobibor , i promised myself that if i survived , i will do everything to tell the story of sobibor .
and that 's what i 'm doing .
and i know that demjanjuk knows a lot , because demjanjuk was in the middle of the holocaust .
and he denies that it is him , that he was not a guard at sobibor , but he was .
i do n't care if demjanjuk is in jail or not .
i do care that he should tell the truth .
and the truth is , that he was a guard at sobibor .
sobibor was not a simple concentration camp .
sobibor was an extermination camp .
at sobibor the guards were simple murderers .
in a concentration camp a guard was a guard , … responsible -lsb- for preventing -rsb- people from running away .
but at sobibor they were simple murderers .
you said that among the guards at sobibor some were sadistic .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : demjanjuk 's wartime identification card is a major piece of evidence against him i said that they were sadistic and that some guards escaped from sobibor .
but demjanjuk did not escape .
he was there all the time with the nazis .
i do n't say that i -lsb- saw -rsb- him for sure .
-lsb- the guards -rsb- were very sadistic .
and we were more afraid of the guards than we were of the germans .
i 'm sure i know that he was a guard .
it is my duty to tell .
he should tell what sobibor was for .
what will be your reaction if there is not enough evidence to find mr. demjanjuk guilty ?
i believe that he will tell the truth , the way it was in sobibor .
and this will be part of history .
this will be -lsb- something -rsb- for the new generation to learn .
because what he has seen , few people have seen .
i strongly believe he will tell the truth .
and later demjanjuk could go free .
for me his testimony is very important , and that 's why i am in munich following demjanjuk 's story .
i am sorry in a way for demjanjuk .
he 's an old man , 89 years old .
he 's sick , he has a family .
so i 'm sorry in a way .
and i think that many people think the same way : he 's an old man , he 's suffered so much .
but i also see the other side of demjanjuk .
i see him as a terrible sadist , a murderer .
he did n't run away from his work .
interview : michael lawton editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de suspected nazi prison camp guard deported to germany the us has deported an alleged former nazi prison camp guard to germany .
jewish leaders hailed john demjanjuk 's deportation , saying they hoped it was n't too late for the 89-year-old to be brought to justice .
-lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- opinion : no statute of limitations on horrors of the holocaust after decades of judicial wrangling , the alleged nazi criminal john demjanjuk is to stand trial in germany .
on tuesday he was flown to munich and brought to a prison awaiting trial .
cornelia rabitz has this commentary : -lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- us seeks to clear path for demjanjuk deportation , again the us government has sought to clear the way to deport alleged former death camp guard john demjanjuk , just days after a us court postponed his deportation to wait for proof that he is fit to travel to germany .
-lrb- 21.04.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic michael lawton talks to raphael gross of the fritz bauer institute for holocaust studies about john demjanjuk nazi war crimes suspect john demjanjuk deported to germany -lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
focus wikileaks read our dw-world focus on the latest wikileaks revelations and their impact around the globe .
african aid germany has been slow to react to the way china and others are changing the rules on aid for africa .
watch the video learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan new web site check out deutsche welle 's new asia page in english .
dw asia online latin america take a multimedia journey discover the region and its people news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's newest media partner © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
sobibor survivor : demjanjuk trial will go down in history -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 30.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de world war ii -pipe- 13.05.2009 sobibor survivor : demjanjuk trial will go down in history großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some 250,000 jews , gypsies and political prisoners were murdered in sobibor 's gas chambers deutsche welle spoke with thomas blatt , one of few to escape from the nazi-run sobibor extermination camp .
he says he does n't care whether john demjanjuk is jailed for working at the camp , just that he tells the truth . thomas blatt was one of the few to survive the sobibor extermination camp in nazi-occupied poland during world war ii .
the 82-year-old is now a key witness in the munich trial of john demjanjuk , who is alleged to have been a guard at sobibor .
deutsche welle : why did you decide to come to germany for this trial ?
thomas blatt : because when i escaped from sobibor , i promised myself that if i survived , i will do everything to tell the story of sobibor .
and that 's what i 'm doing .
and i know that demjanjuk knows a lot , because demjanjuk was in the middle of the holocaust .
and he denies that it is him , that he was not a guard at sobibor , but he was .
i do n't care if demjanjuk is in jail or not .
i do care that he should tell the truth .
and the truth is , that he was a guard at sobibor .
sobibor was not a simple concentration camp .
sobibor was an extermination camp .
at sobibor the guards were simple murderers .
in a concentration camp a guard was a guard , … responsible -lsb- for preventing -rsb- people from running away .
but at sobibor they were simple murderers .
you said that among the guards at sobibor some were sadistic .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : demjanjuk 's wartime identification card is a major piece of evidence against him i said that they were sadistic and that some guards escaped from sobibor .
but demjanjuk did not escape .
he was there all the time with the nazis .
i do n't say that i -lsb- saw -rsb- him for sure .
-lsb- the guards -rsb- were very sadistic .
and we were more afraid of the guards than we were of the germans .
i 'm sure i know that he was a guard .
it is my duty to tell .
he should tell what sobibor was for .
what will be your reaction if there is not enough evidence to find mr. demjanjuk guilty ?
i believe that he will tell the truth , the way it was in sobibor .
and this will be part of history .
this will be -lsb- something -rsb- for the new generation to learn .
because what he has seen , few people have seen .
i strongly believe he will tell the truth .
and later demjanjuk could go free .
for me his testimony is very important , and that 's why i am in munich following demjanjuk 's story .
i am sorry in a way for demjanjuk .
he 's an old man , 89 years old .
he 's sick , he has a family .
so i 'm sorry in a way .
and i think that many people think the same way : he 's an old man , he 's suffered so much .
but i also see the other side of demjanjuk .
i see him as a terrible sadist , a murderer .
he did n't run away from his work .
interview : michael lawton editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de suspected nazi prison camp guard deported to germany the us has deported an alleged former nazi prison camp guard to germany .
jewish leaders hailed john demjanjuk 's deportation , saying they hoped it was n't too late for the 89-year-old to be brought to justice .
-lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- opinion : no statute of limitations on horrors of the holocaust after decades of judicial wrangling , the alleged nazi criminal john demjanjuk is to stand trial in germany .
on tuesday he was flown to munich and brought to a prison awaiting trial .
cornelia rabitz has this commentary : -lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- us seeks to clear path for demjanjuk deportation , again the us government has sought to clear the way to deport alleged former death camp guard john demjanjuk , just days after a us court postponed his deportation to wait for proof that he is fit to travel to germany .
-lrb- 21.04.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic michael lawton talks to raphael gross of the fritz bauer institute for holocaust studies about john demjanjuk nazi war crimes suspect john demjanjuk deported to germany -lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
tornado terror america 's south is in shock following the havoc wreaked by a series of deadly tornadoes .
watch the video focus on syria rattling a regime in-depth coverage of the violent protests against the syrian government .
focus on libya libya 's uprising dw-world looks at the turmoil in libya : what it means for tripoli and the rest of the world .
podcast series a london teen helps integrate autistic adults into society .
download the report subscribe to the series on itunes past episodes international conference media representatives around the world gather in bonn to discuss human rights .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
sobibor survivor : demjanjuk trial will go down in history -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 10.11.2010 home news germany europe world from tierra del fuego to tijuana asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de world war ii -pipe- 13.05.2009 sobibor survivor : demjanjuk trial will go down in history großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some 250,000 jews , gypsies and political prisoners were murdered in sobibor 's gas chambers deutsche welle spoke with thomas blatt , one of few to escape from the nazi-run sobibor extermination camp .
he says he does n't care whether john demjanjuk is jailed for working at the camp , just that he tells the truth . thomas blatt was one of the few to survive the sobibor extermination camp in nazi-occupied poland during world war ii .
the 82-year-old is now a key witness in the munich trial of john demjanjuk , who is alleged to have been a guard at sobibor .
deutsche welle : why did you decide to come to germany for this trial ?
thomas blatt : because when i escaped from sobibor , i promised myself that if i survived , i will do everything to tell the story of sobibor .
and that 's what i 'm doing .
and i know that demjanjuk knows a lot , because demjanjuk was in the middle of the holocaust .
and he denies that it is him , that he was not a guard at sobibor , but he was .
i do n't care if demjanjuk is in jail or not .
i do care that he should tell the truth .
and the truth is , that he was a guard at sobibor .
sobibor was not a simple concentration camp .
sobibor was an extermination camp .
at sobibor the guards were simple murderers .
in a concentration camp a guard was a guard , … responsible -lsb- for preventing -rsb- people from running away .
but at sobibor they were simple murderers .
you said that among the guards at sobibor some were sadistic .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : demjanjuk 's wartime identification card is a major piece of evidence against him i said that they were sadistic and that some guards escaped from sobibor .
but demjanjuk did not escape .
he was there all the time with the nazis .
i do n't say that i -lsb- saw -rsb- him for sure .
-lsb- the guards -rsb- were very sadistic .
and we were more afraid of the guards than we were of the germans .
i 'm sure i know that he was a guard .
it is my duty to tell .
he should tell what sobibor was for .
what will be your reaction if there is not enough evidence to find mr. demjanjuk guilty ?
i believe that he will tell the truth , the way it was in sobibor .
and this will be part of history .
this will be -lsb- something -rsb- for the new generation to learn .
because what he has seen , few people have seen .
i strongly believe he will tell the truth .
and later demjanjuk could go free .
for me his testimony is very important , and that 's why i am in munich following demjanjuk 's story .
i am sorry in a way for demjanjuk .
he 's an old man , 89 years old .
he 's sick , he has a family .
so i 'm sorry in a way .
and i think that many people think the same way : he 's an old man , he 's suffered so much .
but i also see the other side of demjanjuk .
i see him as a terrible sadist , a murderer .
he did n't run away from his work .
interview : michael lawton editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de suspected nazi prison camp guard deported to germany the us has deported an alleged former nazi prison camp guard to germany .
jewish leaders hailed john demjanjuk 's deportation , saying they hoped it was n't too late for the 89-year-old to be brought to justice .
-lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- opinion : no statute of limitations on horrors of the holocaust after decades of judicial wrangling , the alleged nazi criminal john demjanjuk is to stand trial in germany .
on tuesday he was flown to munich and brought to a prison awaiting trial .
cornelia rabitz has this commentary : -lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- us seeks to clear path for demjanjuk deportation , again the us government has sought to clear the way to deport alleged former death camp guard john demjanjuk , just days after a us court postponed his deportation to wait for proof that he is fit to travel to germany .
-lrb- 21.04.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic michael lawton talks to raphael gross of the fritz bauer institute for holocaust studies about john demjanjuk nazi war crimes suspect john demjanjuk deported to germany -lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live europa aktuell we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live world in progress development in a globalized world listen live oil spill inquiry a us presidential probe chides the oil industry for misjudging the dangers of deep-sea drilling .
watch the video learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan new web site check out deutsche welle 's new asia page in english .
dw asia online news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's newest media partner latin america take a multimedia journey discover the region and its people © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
sobibor survivor : demjanjuk trial will go down in history -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.03.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de world war ii -pipe- 13.05.2009 sobibor survivor : demjanjuk trial will go down in history großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some 250,000 jews , gypsies and political prisoners were murdered in sobibor 's gas chambers deutsche welle spoke with thomas blatt , one of few to escape from the nazi-run sobibor extermination camp .
he says he does n't care whether john demjanjuk is jailed for working at the camp , just that he tells the truth . thomas blatt was one of the few to survive the sobibor extermination camp in nazi-occupied poland during world war ii .
the 82-year-old is now a key witness in the munich trial of john demjanjuk , who is alleged to have been a guard at sobibor .
deutsche welle : why did you decide to come to germany for this trial ?
thomas blatt : because when i escaped from sobibor , i promised myself that if i survived , i will do everything to tell the story of sobibor .
and that 's what i 'm doing .
and i know that demjanjuk knows a lot , because demjanjuk was in the middle of the holocaust .
and he denies that it is him , that he was not a guard at sobibor , but he was .
i do n't care if demjanjuk is in jail or not .
i do care that he should tell the truth .
and the truth is , that he was a guard at sobibor .
sobibor was not a simple concentration camp .
sobibor was an extermination camp .
at sobibor the guards were simple murderers .
in a concentration camp a guard was a guard , … responsible -lsb- for preventing -rsb- people from running away .
but at sobibor they were simple murderers .
you said that among the guards at sobibor some were sadistic .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : demjanjuk 's wartime identification card is a major piece of evidence against him i said that they were sadistic and that some guards escaped from sobibor .
but demjanjuk did not escape .
he was there all the time with the nazis .
i do n't say that i -lsb- saw -rsb- him for sure .
-lsb- the guards -rsb- were very sadistic .
and we were more afraid of the guards than we were of the germans .
i 'm sure i know that he was a guard .
it is my duty to tell .
he should tell what sobibor was for .
what will be your reaction if there is not enough evidence to find mr. demjanjuk guilty ?
i believe that he will tell the truth , the way it was in sobibor .
and this will be part of history .
this will be -lsb- something -rsb- for the new generation to learn .
because what he has seen , few people have seen .
i strongly believe he will tell the truth .
and later demjanjuk could go free .
for me his testimony is very important , and that 's why i am in munich following demjanjuk 's story .
i am sorry in a way for demjanjuk .
he 's an old man , 89 years old .
he 's sick , he has a family .
so i 'm sorry in a way .
and i think that many people think the same way : he 's an old man , he 's suffered so much .
but i also see the other side of demjanjuk .
i see him as a terrible sadist , a murderer .
he did n't run away from his work .
interview : michael lawton editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de suspected nazi prison camp guard deported to germany the us has deported an alleged former nazi prison camp guard to germany .
jewish leaders hailed john demjanjuk 's deportation , saying they hoped it was n't too late for the 89-year-old to be brought to justice .
-lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- opinion : no statute of limitations on horrors of the holocaust after decades of judicial wrangling , the alleged nazi criminal john demjanjuk is to stand trial in germany .
on tuesday he was flown to munich and brought to a prison awaiting trial .
cornelia rabitz has this commentary : -lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- us seeks to clear path for demjanjuk deportation , again the us government has sought to clear the way to deport alleged former death camp guard john demjanjuk , just days after a us court postponed his deportation to wait for proof that he is fit to travel to germany .
-lrb- 21.04.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic michael lawton talks to raphael gross of the fritz bauer institute for holocaust studies about john demjanjuk nazi war crimes suspect john demjanjuk deported to germany -lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
transatlantic voices expert opinion no international cooperation has been declared dead or dying as often as the european union .
international conference media representatives around the world gather in bonn to discuss human rights .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
van gaal to become next bayern munich coach -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 01.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de soccer -pipe- 13.05.2009 van gaal to become next bayern munich coach großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : futuer bayern munich head coach louis van gaal bayern munich are set to sign dutch coach louis van gaal ending weeks of speculation over who will be in charge of the bundesliga soccer club next season . bayern munich have confirmed that dutch coach louis van gaal will join the defending bundesliga champions as head coach on a two-year contract as of july 1 .
he is to replace interim coach jupp heynkes , who took over after juergen klinsmann was fired last month .
the coach who has led az alkmaar to their first dutch league title since 1981 , had been bayern 's first choice for the job . other managers under consideration are said to have included inter manager jose mourinho and arsenal 's arsene wenger .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bayern chairman karl-heinz rummenigge munich pleased with choice " we are happy that in louis van gaal we have managed to secure such an experienced and successful coach for bayern munich , " said bayern chairman karl-heinz rummenigge in a statement posted on the club 's website on wednesday .
having steered ajax to the champions league title in 1995 , van gaal , 57 , has a wealth of experience having also led the giants from amsterdam to consecutive dutch titles in 1994 , 1995 and 1996 .
after leading barcelona to back-to-back spanish league titles in 1998 and 1999 , the only blip in an otherwise exceptional career was when he took charge of the netherlands in 2000 .
when the dutch failed to reach the world cup finals in japan and south korea in 2002 , he was replaced by dick advocaat .
van gaal inherits a squad that is level on points with bundesliga leaders wolfsburg with two games remaining in the season .
he is expected to be closely involved in transfer decisions at the end of this season .
in return for alkmaar agreeing to release van gaal before his contract expires , bayern have agreed to play a friendly against alkmaar in the summer of 2010 without charging a fee . nt / pfd , sid / reuters / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ? 9798 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio listen to the latest from german soccer on dw-radio .
sports report euro 2012 live coverage !
follow @ dw _ sports on twitter for germany 's euro 2012 qualifier against austria : june 3 , 18:15 utc © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
cannes rolls out the world 's most famous red carpet once again -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle music art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de film -pipe- 13.05.2009 cannes rolls out the world 's most famous red carpet once again großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : in a cannes first , an animated film opened the festival each may , a festival held on the french riviera draws a collection of the world 's leading cinema minds from all corners of the globe : the cannes film festival .
this year 's edition kicked off on wednesday . the 62nd gathering of cinema 's elite in the resort town of cannes , which sits on france 's mediterranean coast , remains one of the world 's most esteemed and prestigious film festivals .
to win the coveted palme d 'or prize for best film at cannes could be described as a crowning achievement for any producer , director , actor or film studio involved in the production .
unlike other well-known film festivals , such as those in berlin and venice , the focus at cannes is usually on aesthetics : beautiful cinema .
though this year 's 20 entries take on more brutal tones .
this includes american quentin tarantino 's ultra-violent " inglourious basterds , " about a group of bloodthirsty nazi hunters , and korean park chan wook 's priest-turned-vampire flick " bak-jwi " -lrb- " thirst " -rrb- , which has already been racing up the movie charts in his home country .
maverick danish director lars von trier also raises the horror notch this year with his " antichrist , " in which willem dafoe and charlotte gainsbourg find themselves confronting their inner fears and some dark forces in a deserted cabin in the woods .
bildunterschrift : german director wim wenders ' film " paris , texas " is a past winner at cannes german co-production this year also sees a motion picture from germany-born director michael haneke , who directed the 2001 palme d 'or-winning film " the piano teacher . "
his latest cannes entry , " das weisse band " -lrb- " the white ribbon " -rrb- , is set in a village in protestant northern germany in 1913 .
haneke 's tale recreates a country on the eve of world war i , told through the lives of members of a youth choir run by the village school teacher and their families .
little more has been written about the film , the result of haneke 's strict policy of silence in the lead up to his films ' openings .
the film was a joint production between studios in germany , france , austria and italy .
if " the white ribbon " finds success at cannes this year , it would not be the first german co-production to make a name for itself at the festival .
in 1979 , volker schloendorff 's screen adaptation of " die blechtrommel " -lrb- " the tin drum " -rrb- took the top prize , as did wim wenders ' 1984 film " paris , texas . "
new and old faces bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : de niro will always be remembered for his leading role in " taxi driver " these films went on to become part of cinematic history , as do most palme d 'or winners .
this venerated list includes francis ford coppola 's " apocalypse now , " bunuel 's " viridiana , " visconti 's " the leopard " and scorsese 's " taxi driver . "
this year , all eyes will be on 3-d comedy " up " from us director pete docter , which is the first animated film to open the 12-day festival .
the story features an old man who ties balloons to his house in the hope of fulfilling a boyhood dream of flying to south america .
meanwhile , a man bent on avenging the death of his daughter in hong kong director jonnie to 's " vengeance " is also screening , and seven years after shaking up a storm in cannes with his story of rape in " irreversible , " france 's gaspar noe is back at the festival with " enter the void " about a brutal murder .
belt tightening bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the glitterati wo n't be stopped by the financial crisis with the economic crisis having cut a swathe through the world film industry over the last year , filmmakers from hollywood through to bollywood have faced cost-cutting , studio layoffs and an ever more cautious army of producers and movie financiers .
already signs have emerged that the motion picture business has scaled back plans for the lavish parties and extravagant promotional events that have always been a feature of the festival .
but all bets are that whatever the economic climate , this year 's gathering is still likely to celebrate movie-making and the cult of the celebrity with considerable style and flair . dfm / pfd / dpa / afp / reuters send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de germany 's film industry celebrates banner year in 2008 german productions contributed decisively to a banner year in the nation 's film industry in 2008 , continuing last year 's upbeat trend .
-lrb- 05.02.2009 -rrb- lights , camera , action for kosslick as berlinale approaches armed with a mischievous smile and twinkling eyes , dieter kosslick revels in his role as the director of the berlinale , which kicks off this year with a film about the illegal machinations of an international bank .
-lrb- 03.02.2009 -rrb- german love triangle squares off at venice film festival " jerichow , " a love triangle by german director christian petzold , screened at the venice film festival , the first german entry competing for the golden lion since 2004 .
it faces strong competition from the us and italy .
-lrb- 29.08.2008 -rrb- 9798 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
twitter follow dw culture keep up on europe 's culture and lifestyle scene .
dw-tv meet exceptional women who have achieved success in male-dominated jobs .
dj smokin joe car designer juliane blasi architect zeynep fadillioglu chef annie féolde conductor inma shara podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's new free podcast .
' clip ' homepage clip no. 13 - get back to basics with the singer-songwriter rock of the alin coen band subscribe on itunes get the rss feed word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
soundscape 100 concert hour arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
italian suspect in german mob killings to be extradited to italy -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 07.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de crime -pipe- 13.05.2009 italian suspect in german mob killings to be extradited to italy großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : strangio has been top of the most-wanted lists both in germany and in italy giovanni strangio , an italian-born top suspect in a 2007 mafia shootout in germany , is to be extradited to italy , not germany , a dutch court ruled on wednesday . judge fred salomon said strangio , who was arrested in march in the netherlands , would be handed over to italian authorities because italy 's claim to the suspect was stronger than germany 's .
" the italian -lrb- extradition -rrb- request enjoys priority , " salomon said as he handed down the ruling in an amsterdam court . strangio , 30 , is an alleged leading member of the notorious southern italian mafia ' ndrangheta and one of the most wanted people in germany and italy .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the six victims in the duisburg mafia killings were shot in their cars he is suspected of being the ringleader of a shootout that left six rival clan members dead outside a pizzeria in duisburg , western germany , in august 2007 .
germany still wants strangio public prosecutors in duisburg had been trying to get strangio extradited to germany to try him in a local court .
but in recent weeks , it was widely expected that the dutch court would rule in favor of italy .
prosecutors in duisburg have agreed that strangio should be taken first to italy , spokesman detlef nowotsch said .
" we are stepping back for the time being , " nowotsch said .
" but that does n't mean that we do n't want strangio , " he added .
italy 's case for strangio stronger , judge says on wednesday , salomon said italy 's reasons for wanting to try strangio on home soil were more compelling than germany 's .
the judge said the german killings had been the result of clashes between rival clans in the italian town of san luca .
" therefore the relation with italy is bigger than the relation with duisburg where the crime took place , " salomon said .
the judge also pointed out that italy was seeking to prosecute strangio not only for the 2007 killings , but also for membership of a criminal organization .
" furthermore , all the victims had italian nationality , " he said .
strangio is to be transferred to italian custody from his dutch prison in the next 10 days .
killings draw attention to ' ndrangheta mafia the execution-style shootings in duisburg , which grabbed headlines in germany , stemmed from a feud between two rival clans .
the bloody crime drew international attention to the ' ndrangheta , a crime syndicate based in the southern italian region of calabria .
witnesses said they saw two attackers fire about 70 bullets at the six victims , aged 16 to 39 , as they were sitting in their cars after leaving the da bruno restaurant in the industrial city .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the killings outside the da bruno restaurant in duisburg sent shockwaves through germany the duisburg hit was believed to have been revenge for the 2006 christmas-time killing of maria strangio , a cousin of giovanni strangio and the wife of the head of the nirta-strangio clan , giovanni nirta , and the wounding of her son .
the battle between the rival clans has left 16 people dead since 1991 .
in march , an italian court jailed 31 people for the duisburg massacre , one of them for 13 years .
italy 's eurispes social studies institute has estimated ' ndrangheta 's turnover from trafficking in drugs and arms , prostitution and extortion in 2007 at 44 billion euros -lrb- $ 65 billion -rrb- .
strangio was arrested in march in the dutch town of diemen , after a lengthy probe involving telephone wire tapping , surveillance and close coordination between dutch , german and italian police . sp / pfd dpa / afp / reuters send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de dutch police arrest top suspect in duisburg mafia massacre dutch police have arrested an italian man named by authorities as the main suspect for the 2007 murder of six men outside a duisburg restaurant .
the man 's brother-in-law was also arrested during the operation .
-lrb- 13.03.2009 -rrb- police nab mafia boss tied to duisburg killings a suspected mafia boss who was implicated in the execution-style killings of six members of his clan in duisburg , germany , in 2007 , was finally tracked down in italy .
-lrb- 16.10.2008 -rrb- police arrest mafia boss with ties to duisburg massacre italian police arrested a wanted calabrian mafia boss who is the brother-in-law of a chief suspect in the august 2007 killings of six italians in duisburg , news reports said on thursday , aug .
7 .
-lrb- 07.08.2008 -rrb- 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live im focus - dokumentationen und reportagen we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live arts on the air listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
transport with fuel prices at record highs , germans head to luxembourg to take advantage of low fuel tax .
listen to the audio ethics a frenchwoman wrote to the president on her deathbed , pleading for her son 's right to die .
listen to the audio espionage a russian court convicts a former intelligence officer for betraying 10 russian spies in the us .
listen to the audio poland a politician 's comment about the polish region of silesia stirs up an old debate about identity .
watch the video inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
italian suspect in german mob killings to be extradited to italy -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 21.09.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de crime -pipe- 13.05.2009 italian suspect in german mob killings to be extradited to italy großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : strangio has been top of the most-wanted lists both in germany and in italy giovanni strangio , an italian-born top suspect in a 2007 mafia shootout in germany , is to be extradited to italy , not germany , a dutch court ruled on wednesday . judge fred salomon said strangio , who was arrested in march in the netherlands , would be handed over to italian authorities because italy 's claim to the suspect was stronger than germany 's .
" the italian -lrb- extradition -rrb- request enjoys priority , " salomon said as he handed down the ruling in an amsterdam court . strangio , 30 , is an alleged leading member of the notorious southern italian mafia ' ndrangheta and one of the most wanted people in germany and italy .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the six victims in the duisburg mafia killings were shot in their cars he is suspected of being the ringleader of a shootout that left six rival clan members dead outside a pizzeria in duisburg , western germany , in august 2007 .
germany still wants strangio public prosecutors in duisburg had been trying to get strangio extradited to germany to try him in a local court .
but in recent weeks , it was widely expected that the dutch court would rule in favor of italy .
prosecutors in duisburg have agreed that strangio should be taken first to italy , spokesman detlef nowotsch said .
" we are stepping back for the time being , " nowotsch said .
" but that does n't mean that we do n't want strangio , " he added .
italy 's case for strangio stronger , judge says on wednesday , salomon said italy 's reasons for wanting to try strangio on home soil were more compelling than germany 's .
the judge said the german killings had been the result of clashes between rival clans in the italian town of san luca .
" therefore the relation with italy is bigger than the relation with duisburg where the crime took place , " salomon said .
the judge also pointed out that italy was seeking to prosecute strangio not only for the 2007 killings , but also for membership of a criminal organization .
" furthermore , all the victims had italian nationality , " he said .
strangio is to be transferred to italian custody from his dutch prison in the next 10 days .
killings draw attention to ' ndrangheta mafia the execution-style shootings in duisburg , which grabbed headlines in germany , stemmed from a feud between two rival clans .
the bloody crime drew international attention to the ' ndrangheta , a crime syndicate based in the southern italian region of calabria .
witnesses said they saw two attackers fire about 70 bullets at the six victims , aged 16 to 39 , as they were sitting in their cars after leaving the da bruno restaurant in the industrial city .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the killings outside the da bruno restaurant in duisburg sent shockwaves through germany the duisburg hit was believed to have been revenge for the 2006 christmas-time killing of maria strangio , a cousin of giovanni strangio and the wife of the head of the nirta-strangio clan , giovanni nirta , and the wounding of her son .
the battle between the rival clans has left 16 people dead since 1991 .
in march , an italian court jailed 31 people for the duisburg massacre , one of them for 13 years .
italy 's eurispes social studies institute has estimated ' ndrangheta 's turnover from trafficking in drugs and arms , prostitution and extortion in 2007 at 44 billion euros -lrb- $ 65 billion -rrb- .
strangio was arrested in march in the dutch town of diemen , after a lengthy probe involving telephone wire tapping , surveillance and close coordination between dutch , german and italian police . sp / pfd dpa / afp / reuters send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de dutch police arrest top suspect in duisburg mafia massacre dutch police have arrested an italian man named by authorities as the main suspect for the 2007 murder of six men outside a duisburg restaurant .
the man 's brother-in-law was also arrested during the operation .
-lrb- 13.03.2009 -rrb- police nab mafia boss tied to duisburg killings a suspected mafia boss who was implicated in the execution-style killings of six members of his clan in duisburg , germany , in 2007 , was finally tracked down in italy .
-lrb- 16.10.2008 -rrb- police arrest mafia boss with ties to duisburg massacre italian police arrested a wanted calabrian mafia boss who is the brother-in-law of a chief suspect in the august 2007 killings of six italians in duisburg , news reports said on thursday , aug .
7 .
-lrb- 07.08.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inspired minds one to one with pianist hélène grimaud – part 1 listen live people natascha kampusch , the austrian who was kept prisoner from age 10 to 18 , publishes her autobigraphy .
listen to the report postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
postcard from europe : technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket are the gay games necessary ?
love parade - the end of an era europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
italian suspect in german mob killings to be extradited to italy -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 02.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de crime -pipe- 13.05.2009 italian suspect in german mob killings to be extradited to italy großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : strangio has been top of the most-wanted lists both in germany and in italy giovanni strangio , an italian-born top suspect in a 2007 mafia shootout in germany , is to be extradited to italy , not germany , a dutch court ruled on wednesday . judge fred salomon said strangio , who was arrested in march in the netherlands , would be handed over to italian authorities because italy 's claim to the suspect was stronger than germany 's .
" the italian -lrb- extradition -rrb- request enjoys priority , " salomon said as he handed down the ruling in an amsterdam court . strangio , 30 , is an alleged leading member of the notorious southern italian mafia ' ndrangheta and one of the most wanted people in germany and italy .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the six victims in the duisburg mafia killings were shot in their cars he is suspected of being the ringleader of a shootout that left six rival clan members dead outside a pizzeria in duisburg , western germany , in august 2007 .
germany still wants strangio public prosecutors in duisburg had been trying to get strangio extradited to germany to try him in a local court .
but in recent weeks , it was widely expected that the dutch court would rule in favor of italy .
prosecutors in duisburg have agreed that strangio should be taken first to italy , spokesman detlef nowotsch said .
" we are stepping back for the time being , " nowotsch said .
" but that does n't mean that we do n't want strangio , " he added .
italy 's case for strangio stronger , judge says on wednesday , salomon said italy 's reasons for wanting to try strangio on home soil were more compelling than germany 's .
the judge said the german killings had been the result of clashes between rival clans in the italian town of san luca .
" therefore the relation with italy is bigger than the relation with duisburg where the crime took place , " salomon said .
the judge also pointed out that italy was seeking to prosecute strangio not only for the 2007 killings , but also for membership of a criminal organization .
" furthermore , all the victims had italian nationality , " he said .
strangio is to be transferred to italian custody from his dutch prison in the next 10 days .
killings draw attention to ' ndrangheta mafia the execution-style shootings in duisburg , which grabbed headlines in germany , stemmed from a feud between two rival clans .
the bloody crime drew international attention to the ' ndrangheta , a crime syndicate based in the southern italian region of calabria .
witnesses said they saw two attackers fire about 70 bullets at the six victims , aged 16 to 39 , as they were sitting in their cars after leaving the da bruno restaurant in the industrial city .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the killings outside the da bruno restaurant in duisburg sent shockwaves through germany the duisburg hit was believed to have been revenge for the 2006 christmas-time killing of maria strangio , a cousin of giovanni strangio and the wife of the head of the nirta-strangio clan , giovanni nirta , and the wounding of her son .
the battle between the rival clans has left 16 people dead since 1991 .
in march , an italian court jailed 31 people for the duisburg massacre , one of them for 13 years .
italy 's eurispes social studies institute has estimated ' ndrangheta 's turnover from trafficking in drugs and arms , prostitution and extortion in 2007 at 44 billion euros -lrb- $ 65 billion -rrb- .
strangio was arrested in march in the dutch town of diemen , after a lengthy probe involving telephone wire tapping , surveillance and close coordination between dutch , german and italian police . sp / pfd dpa / afp / reuters send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de dutch police arrest top suspect in duisburg mafia massacre dutch police have arrested an italian man named by authorities as the main suspect for the 2007 murder of six men outside a duisburg restaurant .
the man 's brother-in-law was also arrested during the operation .
-lrb- 13.03.2009 -rrb- police nab mafia boss tied to duisburg killings a suspected mafia boss who was implicated in the execution-style killings of six members of his clan in duisburg , germany , in 2007 , was finally tracked down in italy .
-lrb- 16.10.2008 -rrb- police arrest mafia boss with ties to duisburg massacre italian police arrested a wanted calabrian mafia boss who is the brother-in-law of a chief suspect in the august 2007 killings of six italians in duisburg , news reports said on thursday , aug .
7 .
-lrb- 07.08.2008 -rrb- 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
spain deutsche welle takes a closer look at the protesters camped out in central madrid .
watch the video nuclear energy politicians in nuclear giant france decry germany 's decision to abandon the technology .
listen to the audio postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
french burqa ban fits secular ideals is berlusconi giving italy a bad name ?
a dubious record for belgium inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
sobibor survivor : demjanjuk trial will go down in history -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 26.09.2010 home news germany europe world from tierra del fuego to tijuana asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de world war ii -pipe- 13.05.2009 sobibor survivor : demjanjuk trial will go down in history großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some 250,000 jews , gypsies and political prisoners were murdered in sobibor 's gas chambers deutsche welle spoke with thomas blatt , one of few to escape from the nazi-run sobibor extermination camp .
he says he does n't care whether john demjanjuk is jailed for working at the camp , just that he tells the truth . thomas blatt was one of the few to survive the sobibor extermination camp in nazi-occupied poland during world war ii .
the 82-year-old is now a key witness in the munich trial of john demjanjuk , who is alleged to have been a guard at sobibor .
deutsche welle : why did you decide to come to germany for this trial ?
thomas blatt : because when i escaped from sobibor , i promised myself that if i survived , i will do everything to tell the story of sobibor .
and that 's what i 'm doing .
and i know that demjanjuk knows a lot , because demjanjuk was in the middle of the holocaust .
and he denies that it is him , that he was not a guard at sobibor , but he was .
i do n't care if demjanjuk is in jail or not .
i do care that he should tell the truth .
and the truth is , that he was a guard at sobibor .
sobibor was not a simple concentration camp .
sobibor was an extermination camp .
at sobibor the guards were simple murderers .
in a concentration camp a guard was a guard , … responsible -lsb- for preventing -rsb- people from running away .
but at sobibor they were simple murderers .
you said that among the guards at sobibor some were sadistic .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : demjanjuk 's wartime identification card is a major piece of evidence against him i said that they were sadistic and that some guards escaped from sobibor .
but demjanjuk did not escape .
he was there all the time with the nazis .
i do n't say that i -lsb- saw -rsb- him for sure .
-lsb- the guards -rsb- were very sadistic .
and we were more afraid of the guards than we were of the germans .
i 'm sure i know that he was a guard .
it is my duty to tell .
he should tell what sobibor was for .
what will be your reaction if there is not enough evidence to find mr. demjanjuk guilty ?
i believe that he will tell the truth , the way it was in sobibor .
and this will be part of history .
this will be -lsb- something -rsb- for the new generation to learn .
because what he has seen , few people have seen .
i strongly believe he will tell the truth .
and later demjanjuk could go free .
for me his testimony is very important , and that 's why i am in munich following demjanjuk 's story .
i am sorry in a way for demjanjuk .
he 's an old man , 89 years old .
he 's sick , he has a family .
so i 'm sorry in a way .
and i think that many people think the same way : he 's an old man , he 's suffered so much .
but i also see the other side of demjanjuk .
i see him as a terrible sadist , a murderer .
he did n't run away from his work .
interview : michael lawton editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de suspected nazi prison camp guard deported to germany the us has deported an alleged former nazi prison camp guard to germany .
jewish leaders hailed john demjanjuk 's deportation , saying they hoped it was n't too late for the 89-year-old to be brought to justice .
-lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- opinion : no statute of limitations on horrors of the holocaust after decades of judicial wrangling , the alleged nazi criminal john demjanjuk is to stand trial in germany .
on tuesday he was flown to munich and brought to a prison awaiting trial .
cornelia rabitz has this commentary : -lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- us seeks to clear path for demjanjuk deportation , again the us government has sought to clear the way to deport alleged former death camp guard john demjanjuk , just days after a us court postponed his deportation to wait for proof that he is fit to travel to germany .
-lrb- 21.04.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic michael lawton talks to raphael gross of the fritz bauer institute for holocaust studies about john demjanjuk nazi war crimes suspect john demjanjuk deported to germany -lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live concert hour summer music days in hitzacker listen live no nukes critics say us president obama 's latest push for a world free of nuclear weapons is unrealistic .
watch the video learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan new web site check out deutsche welle 's new asia page in english .
dw asia online news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's newest media partner latin america take a multimedia journey discover the region and its people © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
wolfsburg , bayern and hertha win matches -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 19.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de bundesliga -pipe- 13.05.2009 wolfsburg , bayern and hertha win matches großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : wolfsburg 's grafite celebrates bundesliga leaders vfl wolfsburg and their two main challengers bayern munich and hertha berlin showed the way on tuesday as they won their midweek league matches . hertha berlin secured a 2-1 victory at cologne .
wolfsburg beat borussia dortmund 3-0 , and bayern munich scored three times in the second half en route to a 3-0 victory over bayer leverkusen .
wolfsburg and bayern are now at the top of the table with 63 points and two games remaining , with wolfsburg just two goals better than their rivals from southern germany .
hertha berlin are a point behind the two , while vfb stuttgart could move to 61 points if they win at schalke 04 on wednesday .
the other game on tuesday saw bottom club karlsruhe sc all but relegated after giving away a 2-0 lead against hanover 96 before finally losing 3-2 .
wolfsburg striking duo grafite and edin dzeko again provided the goals that kept the northern german side at the top .
dzeko opened the scoring in the 14th minute with his 21st goal of the season , before the brazilian grafite added a second goal two minutes after the restart .
dzeko scored his second goal six minutes from the end after being set up by grafite , who heads the goal scorer standings with 24 goals .
dortmund ended the game with ten men after kevin-prince boateng was sent off in the 75th minute - just eight minutes after coming on as a substitute .
wolfsburg coach felix magath said that his side wanted to do well after losing their last game at vfb stuttgart 4-1 , adding , " we went in search of goals from the word go . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : dortmund 's head coach juergen klopp klopp believes dortmund coach juergen klopp said , “ we have the quality and at the end of the day , that will come through . "
he noted that wolfsburg played very well and said , " they deserved to win .
they are a strong side and we certainly do not think that we lost badly .
at the end of the day , the number of goals scored against us , does not matter really . "
bayern wins again in munich , the visitors were denied two penalties in the first half , but could do nothing as luca toni , franck ribery and lukas podolski scored the goals that kept bayern in the hunt for a 22nd german championship .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : jupp heynckes bayern has now won the last three games under new coach jupp heynckes , who took over when juergen klinsmann was sacked .
he changed the team on a few positions and gave germany striker podolski , who spent most of the time on the bench under klinsmann , a starting place .
podolski , who scored one goal and set up the others , saying , " we did well as a team and trained well .
i think you can see that on the field .
the new coach gave me the trust and played me from the beginning and i tried to repay him on the field . "
bayern manager uli hoeness said that his side could have won by a higher score .
" we decided not to tell the players what the other scores were and i still do not think that the championship will be decided on goal difference .
one team will still slip up . "
cicero gave berlin the lead in cologne three minutes from the break , before patrick ebert added a second midway through the second half with a shot that took a wicked deflection .
adil chihi pulled one back for cologne late in the game with his first-ever bundesliga goal .
karlsruhe looked on course for an important victory against hanover after alexander lashvili and lars stindl gave the home side a 2-0 lead after just 32 minutes .
however , sergio pinto and mikael forssell equalized matters before the break and hanno balitsch found a winner for hanover at the end of 64 minutes .
karlsruhe are last in the table with just 23 points and could be relegated on wednesday if three of the four teams directly above them win . av / ai / dpa / ap send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de wolfsburg on course for first-ever bundesliga title wolfsburg remain on target thrashing hoffenheim 4-0 as bayern win their first match in post-klinsmann era with four matches to play this season .
-lrb- 02.05.2009 -rrb- bremen ends hamburg hopes for bundesliga title bremen once again outclassed hamburg when they beat their northern german rivals 2-0 in a bundesliga match on sunday , all but killing off the side 's hopes for a league title .
-lrb- 10.05.2009 -rrb- gomez scores four as stuttgart thrashes wolfsburg mario gomez scored all four goals to take vfb stuttgart to a stunning 4-1 victory over bundesliga leaders vfl wolfsburg on saturday .
defending champions bayern munich won 3-1 against energie cottbus .
-lrb- 09.05.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live in-box feedback from around the world listen live bundesliga predictions match day 17 picks the dw pundits are back from the alien abduction that kept them silent last week .
dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report high scorer freiburg 's papiss demba cisse opens up to dw-tv 's bundesliga kick off ! about his goalscoring ways .
watch the report scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results at a glance .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia moenchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
wolfsburg , bayern and hertha win matches -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 30.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de bundesliga -pipe- 13.05.2009 wolfsburg , bayern and hertha win matches großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : wolfsburg 's grafite celebrates bundesliga leaders vfl wolfsburg and their two main challengers bayern munich and hertha berlin showed the way on tuesday as they won their midweek league matches . hertha berlin secured a 2-1 victory at cologne .
wolfsburg beat borussia dortmund 3-0 , and bayern munich scored three times in the second half en route to a 3-0 victory over bayer leverkusen .
wolfsburg and bayern are now at the top of the table with 63 points and two games remaining , with wolfsburg just two goals better than their rivals from southern germany .
hertha berlin are a point behind the two , while vfb stuttgart could move to 61 points if they win at schalke 04 on wednesday .
the other game on tuesday saw bottom club karlsruhe sc all but relegated after giving away a 2-0 lead against hanover 96 before finally losing 3-2 .
wolfsburg striking duo grafite and edin dzeko again provided the goals that kept the northern german side at the top .
dzeko opened the scoring in the 14th minute with his 21st goal of the season , before the brazilian grafite added a second goal two minutes after the restart .
dzeko scored his second goal six minutes from the end after being set up by grafite , who heads the goal scorer standings with 24 goals .
dortmund ended the game with ten men after kevin-prince boateng was sent off in the 75th minute - just eight minutes after coming on as a substitute .
wolfsburg coach felix magath said that his side wanted to do well after losing their last game at vfb stuttgart 4-1 , adding , " we went in search of goals from the word go . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : dortmund 's head coach juergen klopp klopp believes dortmund coach juergen klopp said , “ we have the quality and at the end of the day , that will come through . "
he noted that wolfsburg played very well and said , " they deserved to win .
they are a strong side and we certainly do not think that we lost badly .
at the end of the day , the number of goals scored against us , does not matter really . "
bayern wins again in munich , the visitors were denied two penalties in the first half , but could do nothing as luca toni , franck ribery and lukas podolski scored the goals that kept bayern in the hunt for a 22nd german championship .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : jupp heynckes bayern has now won the last three games under new coach jupp heynckes , who took over when juergen klinsmann was sacked .
he changed the team on a few positions and gave germany striker podolski , who spent most of the time on the bench under klinsmann , a starting place .
podolski , who scored one goal and set up the others , saying , " we did well as a team and trained well .
i think you can see that on the field .
the new coach gave me the trust and played me from the beginning and i tried to repay him on the field . "
bayern manager uli hoeness said that his side could have won by a higher score .
" we decided not to tell the players what the other scores were and i still do not think that the championship will be decided on goal difference .
one team will still slip up . "
cicero gave berlin the lead in cologne three minutes from the break , before patrick ebert added a second midway through the second half with a shot that took a wicked deflection .
adil chihi pulled one back for cologne late in the game with his first-ever bundesliga goal .
karlsruhe looked on course for an important victory against hanover after alexander lashvili and lars stindl gave the home side a 2-0 lead after just 32 minutes .
however , sergio pinto and mikael forssell equalized matters before the break and hanno balitsch found a winner for hanover at the end of 64 minutes .
karlsruhe are last in the table with just 23 points and could be relegated on wednesday if three of the four teams directly above them win . av / ai / dpa / ap send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de wolfsburg on course for first-ever bundesliga title wolfsburg remain on target thrashing hoffenheim 4-0 as bayern win their first match in post-klinsmann era with four matches to play this season .
-lrb- 02.05.2009 -rrb- bremen ends hamburg hopes for bundesliga title bremen once again outclassed hamburg when they beat their northern german rivals 2-0 in a bundesliga match on sunday , all but killing off the side 's hopes for a league title .
-lrb- 10.05.2009 -rrb- gomez scores four as stuttgart thrashes wolfsburg mario gomez scored all four goals to take vfb stuttgart to a stunning 4-1 victory over bundesliga leaders vfl wolfsburg on saturday .
defending champions bayern munich won 3-1 against energie cottbus .
-lrb- 09.05.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
bundesliga picks dramatic finish three weeks to go and there 's still much to play for - and predict - in the bundesliga .
dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer on dw-radio .
sports report scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results .
dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
wolfsburg , bayern and hertha win matches -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.03.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de bundesliga -pipe- 13.05.2009 wolfsburg , bayern and hertha win matches großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : wolfsburg 's grafite celebrates bundesliga leaders vfl wolfsburg and their two main challengers bayern munich and hertha berlin showed the way on tuesday as they won their midweek league matches . hertha berlin secured a 2-1 victory at cologne .
wolfsburg beat borussia dortmund 3-0 , and bayern munich scored three times in the second half en route to a 3-0 victory over bayer leverkusen .
wolfsburg and bayern are now at the top of the table with 63 points and two games remaining , with wolfsburg just two goals better than their rivals from southern germany .
hertha berlin are a point behind the two , while vfb stuttgart could move to 61 points if they win at schalke 04 on wednesday .
the other game on tuesday saw bottom club karlsruhe sc all but relegated after giving away a 2-0 lead against hanover 96 before finally losing 3-2 .
wolfsburg striking duo grafite and edin dzeko again provided the goals that kept the northern german side at the top .
dzeko opened the scoring in the 14th minute with his 21st goal of the season , before the brazilian grafite added a second goal two minutes after the restart .
dzeko scored his second goal six minutes from the end after being set up by grafite , who heads the goal scorer standings with 24 goals .
dortmund ended the game with ten men after kevin-prince boateng was sent off in the 75th minute - just eight minutes after coming on as a substitute .
wolfsburg coach felix magath said that his side wanted to do well after losing their last game at vfb stuttgart 4-1 , adding , " we went in search of goals from the word go . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : dortmund 's head coach juergen klopp klopp believes dortmund coach juergen klopp said , “ we have the quality and at the end of the day , that will come through . "
he noted that wolfsburg played very well and said , " they deserved to win .
they are a strong side and we certainly do not think that we lost badly .
at the end of the day , the number of goals scored against us , does not matter really . "
bayern wins again in munich , the visitors were denied two penalties in the first half , but could do nothing as luca toni , franck ribery and lukas podolski scored the goals that kept bayern in the hunt for a 22nd german championship .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : jupp heynckes bayern has now won the last three games under new coach jupp heynckes , who took over when juergen klinsmann was sacked .
he changed the team on a few positions and gave germany striker podolski , who spent most of the time on the bench under klinsmann , a starting place .
podolski , who scored one goal and set up the others , saying , " we did well as a team and trained well .
i think you can see that on the field .
the new coach gave me the trust and played me from the beginning and i tried to repay him on the field . "
bayern manager uli hoeness said that his side could have won by a higher score .
" we decided not to tell the players what the other scores were and i still do not think that the championship will be decided on goal difference .
one team will still slip up . "
cicero gave berlin the lead in cologne three minutes from the break , before patrick ebert added a second midway through the second half with a shot that took a wicked deflection .
adil chihi pulled one back for cologne late in the game with his first-ever bundesliga goal .
karlsruhe looked on course for an important victory against hanover after alexander lashvili and lars stindl gave the home side a 2-0 lead after just 32 minutes .
however , sergio pinto and mikael forssell equalized matters before the break and hanno balitsch found a winner for hanover at the end of 64 minutes .
karlsruhe are last in the table with just 23 points and could be relegated on wednesday if three of the four teams directly above them win . av / ai / dpa / ap send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de wolfsburg on course for first-ever bundesliga title wolfsburg remain on target thrashing hoffenheim 4-0 as bayern win their first match in post-klinsmann era with four matches to play this season .
-lrb- 02.05.2009 -rrb- bremen ends hamburg hopes for bundesliga title bremen once again outclassed hamburg when they beat their northern german rivals 2-0 in a bundesliga match on sunday , all but killing off the side 's hopes for a league title .
-lrb- 10.05.2009 -rrb- gomez scores four as stuttgart thrashes wolfsburg mario gomez scored all four goals to take vfb stuttgart to a stunning 4-1 victory over bundesliga leaders vfl wolfsburg on saturday .
defending champions bayern munich won 3-1 against energie cottbus .
-lrb- 09.05.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 dw-tv europe live arts.21 we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live in-box -lsb- in-box -rsb- feedback from around the world listen live dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer on dw-radio .
sports report scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia mönchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
wolfsburg , bayern and hertha win matches -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 28.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de bundesliga -pipe- 13.05.2009 wolfsburg , bayern and hertha win matches großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : wolfsburg 's grafite celebrates bundesliga leaders vfl wolfsburg and their two main challengers bayern munich and hertha berlin showed the way on tuesday as they won their midweek league matches . hertha berlin secured a 2-1 victory at cologne .
wolfsburg beat borussia dortmund 3-0 , and bayern munich scored three times in the second half en route to a 3-0 victory over bayer leverkusen .
wolfsburg and bayern are now at the top of the table with 63 points and two games remaining , with wolfsburg just two goals better than their rivals from southern germany .
hertha berlin are a point behind the two , while vfb stuttgart could move to 61 points if they win at schalke 04 on wednesday .
the other game on tuesday saw bottom club karlsruhe sc all but relegated after giving away a 2-0 lead against hanover 96 before finally losing 3-2 .
wolfsburg striking duo grafite and edin dzeko again provided the goals that kept the northern german side at the top .
dzeko opened the scoring in the 14th minute with his 21st goal of the season , before the brazilian grafite added a second goal two minutes after the restart .
dzeko scored his second goal six minutes from the end after being set up by grafite , who heads the goal scorer standings with 24 goals .
dortmund ended the game with ten men after kevin-prince boateng was sent off in the 75th minute - just eight minutes after coming on as a substitute .
wolfsburg coach felix magath said that his side wanted to do well after losing their last game at vfb stuttgart 4-1 , adding , " we went in search of goals from the word go . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : dortmund 's head coach juergen klopp klopp believes dortmund coach juergen klopp said , “ we have the quality and at the end of the day , that will come through . "
he noted that wolfsburg played very well and said , " they deserved to win .
they are a strong side and we certainly do not think that we lost badly .
at the end of the day , the number of goals scored against us , does not matter really . "
bayern wins again in munich , the visitors were denied two penalties in the first half , but could do nothing as luca toni , franck ribery and lukas podolski scored the goals that kept bayern in the hunt for a 22nd german championship .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : jupp heynckes bayern has now won the last three games under new coach jupp heynckes , who took over when juergen klinsmann was sacked .
he changed the team on a few positions and gave germany striker podolski , who spent most of the time on the bench under klinsmann , a starting place .
podolski , who scored one goal and set up the others , saying , " we did well as a team and trained well .
i think you can see that on the field .
the new coach gave me the trust and played me from the beginning and i tried to repay him on the field . "
bayern manager uli hoeness said that his side could have won by a higher score .
" we decided not to tell the players what the other scores were and i still do not think that the championship will be decided on goal difference .
one team will still slip up . "
cicero gave berlin the lead in cologne three minutes from the break , before patrick ebert added a second midway through the second half with a shot that took a wicked deflection .
adil chihi pulled one back for cologne late in the game with his first-ever bundesliga goal .
karlsruhe looked on course for an important victory against hanover after alexander lashvili and lars stindl gave the home side a 2-0 lead after just 32 minutes .
however , sergio pinto and mikael forssell equalized matters before the break and hanno balitsch found a winner for hanover at the end of 64 minutes .
karlsruhe are last in the table with just 23 points and could be relegated on wednesday if three of the four teams directly above them win . av / ai / dpa / ap send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de wolfsburg on course for first-ever bundesliga title wolfsburg remain on target thrashing hoffenheim 4-0 as bayern win their first match in post-klinsmann era with four matches to play this season .
-lrb- 02.05.2009 -rrb- bremen ends hamburg hopes for bundesliga title bremen once again outclassed hamburg when they beat their northern german rivals 2-0 in a bundesliga match on sunday , all but killing off the side 's hopes for a league title .
-lrb- 10.05.2009 -rrb- gomez scores four as stuttgart thrashes wolfsburg mario gomez scored all four goals to take vfb stuttgart to a stunning 4-1 victory over bundesliga leaders vfl wolfsburg on saturday .
defending champions bayern munich won 3-1 against energie cottbus .
-lrb- 09.05.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results at a glance .
dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia moenchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
wolfsburg , bayern and hertha win matches -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 24.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de bundesliga -pipe- 13.05.2009 wolfsburg , bayern and hertha win matches großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : wolfsburg 's grafite celebrates bundesliga leaders vfl wolfsburg and their two main challengers bayern munich and hertha berlin showed the way on tuesday as they won their midweek league matches . hertha berlin secured a 2-1 victory at cologne .
wolfsburg beat borussia dortmund 3-0 , and bayern munich scored three times in the second half en route to a 3-0 victory over bayer leverkusen .
wolfsburg and bayern are now at the top of the table with 63 points and two games remaining , with wolfsburg just two goals better than their rivals from southern germany .
hertha berlin are a point behind the two , while vfb stuttgart could move to 61 points if they win at schalke 04 on wednesday .
the other game on tuesday saw bottom club karlsruhe sc all but relegated after giving away a 2-0 lead against hanover 96 before finally losing 3-2 .
wolfsburg striking duo grafite and edin dzeko again provided the goals that kept the northern german side at the top .
dzeko opened the scoring in the 14th minute with his 21st goal of the season , before the brazilian grafite added a second goal two minutes after the restart .
dzeko scored his second goal six minutes from the end after being set up by grafite , who heads the goal scorer standings with 24 goals .
dortmund ended the game with ten men after kevin-prince boateng was sent off in the 75th minute - just eight minutes after coming on as a substitute .
wolfsburg coach felix magath said that his side wanted to do well after losing their last game at vfb stuttgart 4-1 , adding , " we went in search of goals from the word go . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : dortmund 's head coach juergen klopp klopp believes dortmund coach juergen klopp said , “ we have the quality and at the end of the day , that will come through . "
he noted that wolfsburg played very well and said , " they deserved to win .
they are a strong side and we certainly do not think that we lost badly .
at the end of the day , the number of goals scored against us , does not matter really . "
bayern wins again in munich , the visitors were denied two penalties in the first half , but could do nothing as luca toni , franck ribery and lukas podolski scored the goals that kept bayern in the hunt for a 22nd german championship .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : jupp heynckes bayern has now won the last three games under new coach jupp heynckes , who took over when juergen klinsmann was sacked .
he changed the team on a few positions and gave germany striker podolski , who spent most of the time on the bench under klinsmann , a starting place .
podolski , who scored one goal and set up the others , saying , " we did well as a team and trained well .
i think you can see that on the field .
the new coach gave me the trust and played me from the beginning and i tried to repay him on the field . "
bayern manager uli hoeness said that his side could have won by a higher score .
" we decided not to tell the players what the other scores were and i still do not think that the championship will be decided on goal difference .
one team will still slip up . "
cicero gave berlin the lead in cologne three minutes from the break , before patrick ebert added a second midway through the second half with a shot that took a wicked deflection .
adil chihi pulled one back for cologne late in the game with his first-ever bundesliga goal .
karlsruhe looked on course for an important victory against hanover after alexander lashvili and lars stindl gave the home side a 2-0 lead after just 32 minutes .
however , sergio pinto and mikael forssell equalized matters before the break and hanno balitsch found a winner for hanover at the end of 64 minutes .
karlsruhe are last in the table with just 23 points and could be relegated on wednesday if three of the four teams directly above them win . av / ai / dpa / ap send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de wolfsburg on course for first-ever bundesliga title wolfsburg remain on target thrashing hoffenheim 4-0 as bayern win their first match in post-klinsmann era with four matches to play this season .
-lrb- 02.05.2009 -rrb- bremen ends hamburg hopes for bundesliga title bremen once again outclassed hamburg when they beat their northern german rivals 2-0 in a bundesliga match on sunday , all but killing off the side 's hopes for a league title .
-lrb- 10.05.2009 -rrb- gomez scores four as stuttgart thrashes wolfsburg mario gomez scored all four goals to take vfb stuttgart to a stunning 4-1 victory over bundesliga leaders vfl wolfsburg on saturday .
defending champions bayern munich won 3-1 against energie cottbus .
-lrb- 09.05.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 dw-tv europe live in focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live european business week making european business your business listen live dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results at a glance .
dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia moenchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
wolfsburg , bayern and hertha win matches -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 23.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de bundesliga -pipe- 13.05.2009 wolfsburg , bayern and hertha win matches großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : wolfsburg 's grafite celebrates bundesliga leaders vfl wolfsburg and their two main challengers bayern munich and hertha berlin showed the way on tuesday as they won their midweek league matches . hertha berlin secured a 2-1 victory at cologne .
wolfsburg beat borussia dortmund 3-0 , and bayern munich scored three times in the second half en route to a 3-0 victory over bayer leverkusen .
wolfsburg and bayern are now at the top of the table with 63 points and two games remaining , with wolfsburg just two goals better than their rivals from southern germany .
hertha berlin are a point behind the two , while vfb stuttgart could move to 61 points if they win at schalke 04 on wednesday .
the other game on tuesday saw bottom club karlsruhe sc all but relegated after giving away a 2-0 lead against hanover 96 before finally losing 3-2 .
wolfsburg striking duo grafite and edin dzeko again provided the goals that kept the northern german side at the top .
dzeko opened the scoring in the 14th minute with his 21st goal of the season , before the brazilian grafite added a second goal two minutes after the restart .
dzeko scored his second goal six minutes from the end after being set up by grafite , who heads the goal scorer standings with 24 goals .
dortmund ended the game with ten men after kevin-prince boateng was sent off in the 75th minute - just eight minutes after coming on as a substitute .
wolfsburg coach felix magath said that his side wanted to do well after losing their last game at vfb stuttgart 4-1 , adding , " we went in search of goals from the word go . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : dortmund 's head coach juergen klopp klopp believes dortmund coach juergen klopp said , “ we have the quality and at the end of the day , that will come through . "
he noted that wolfsburg played very well and said , " they deserved to win .
they are a strong side and we certainly do not think that we lost badly .
at the end of the day , the number of goals scored against us , does not matter really . "
bayern wins again in munich , the visitors were denied two penalties in the first half , but could do nothing as luca toni , franck ribery and lukas podolski scored the goals that kept bayern in the hunt for a 22nd german championship .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : jupp heynckes bayern has now won the last three games under new coach jupp heynckes , who took over when juergen klinsmann was sacked .
he changed the team on a few positions and gave germany striker podolski , who spent most of the time on the bench under klinsmann , a starting place .
podolski , who scored one goal and set up the others , saying , " we did well as a team and trained well .
i think you can see that on the field .
the new coach gave me the trust and played me from the beginning and i tried to repay him on the field . "
bayern manager uli hoeness said that his side could have won by a higher score .
" we decided not to tell the players what the other scores were and i still do not think that the championship will be decided on goal difference .
one team will still slip up . "
cicero gave berlin the lead in cologne three minutes from the break , before patrick ebert added a second midway through the second half with a shot that took a wicked deflection .
adil chihi pulled one back for cologne late in the game with his first-ever bundesliga goal .
karlsruhe looked on course for an important victory against hanover after alexander lashvili and lars stindl gave the home side a 2-0 lead after just 32 minutes .
however , sergio pinto and mikael forssell equalized matters before the break and hanno balitsch found a winner for hanover at the end of 64 minutes .
karlsruhe are last in the table with just 23 points and could be relegated on wednesday if three of the four teams directly above them win . av / ai / dpa / ap send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de wolfsburg on course for first-ever bundesliga title wolfsburg remain on target thrashing hoffenheim 4-0 as bayern win their first match in post-klinsmann era with four matches to play this season .
-lrb- 02.05.2009 -rrb- bremen ends hamburg hopes for bundesliga title bremen once again outclassed hamburg when they beat their northern german rivals 2-0 in a bundesliga match on sunday , all but killing off the side 's hopes for a league title .
-lrb- 10.05.2009 -rrb- gomez scores four as stuttgart thrashes wolfsburg mario gomez scored all four goals to take vfb stuttgart to a stunning 4-1 victory over bundesliga leaders vfl wolfsburg on saturday .
defending champions bayern munich won 3-1 against energie cottbus .
-lrb- 09.05.2009 -rrb- 9798 dw-tv europe live quadriga - der internationale talk we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live dw-radio would you listen ?
the best of german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report referees a new high-tech center in spain hopes to help referees improve their skills .
listen to the report media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
wolfsburg , bayern and hertha win matches -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 14.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de bundesliga -pipe- 13.05.2009 wolfsburg , bayern and hertha win matches großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : wolfsburg 's grafite celebrates bundesliga leaders vfl wolfsburg and their two main challengers bayern munich and hertha berlin showed the way on tuesday as they won their midweek league matches . hertha berlin secured a 2-1 victory at cologne .
wolfsburg beat borussia dortmund 3-0 , and bayern munich scored three times in the second half en route to a 3-0 victory over bayer leverkusen .
wolfsburg and bayern are now at the top of the table with 63 points and two games remaining , with wolfsburg just two goals better than their rivals from southern germany .
hertha berlin are a point behind the two , while vfb stuttgart could move to 61 points if they win at schalke 04 on wednesday .
the other game on tuesday saw bottom club karlsruhe sc all but relegated after giving away a 2-0 lead against hanover 96 before finally losing 3-2 .
wolfsburg striking duo grafite and edin dzeko again provided the goals that kept the northern german side at the top .
dzeko opened the scoring in the 14th minute with his 21st goal of the season , before the brazilian grafite added a second goal two minutes after the restart .
dzeko scored his second goal six minutes from the end after being set up by grafite , who heads the goal scorer standings with 24 goals .
dortmund ended the game with ten men after kevin-prince boateng was sent off in the 75th minute - just eight minutes after coming on as a substitute .
wolfsburg coach felix magath said that his side wanted to do well after losing their last game at vfb stuttgart 4-1 , adding , " we went in search of goals from the word go . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : dortmund 's head coach juergen klopp klopp believes dortmund coach juergen klopp said , “ we have the quality and at the end of the day , that will come through . "
he noted that wolfsburg played very well and said , " they deserved to win .
they are a strong side and we certainly do not think that we lost badly .
at the end of the day , the number of goals scored against us , does not matter really . "
bayern wins again in munich , the visitors were denied two penalties in the first half , but could do nothing as luca toni , franck ribery and lukas podolski scored the goals that kept bayern in the hunt for a 22nd german championship .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : jupp heynckes bayern has now won the last three games under new coach jupp heynckes , who took over when juergen klinsmann was sacked .
he changed the team on a few positions and gave germany striker podolski , who spent most of the time on the bench under klinsmann , a starting place .
podolski , who scored one goal and set up the others , saying , " we did well as a team and trained well .
i think you can see that on the field .
the new coach gave me the trust and played me from the beginning and i tried to repay him on the field . "
bayern manager uli hoeness said that his side could have won by a higher score .
" we decided not to tell the players what the other scores were and i still do not think that the championship will be decided on goal difference .
one team will still slip up . "
cicero gave berlin the lead in cologne three minutes from the break , before patrick ebert added a second midway through the second half with a shot that took a wicked deflection .
adil chihi pulled one back for cologne late in the game with his first-ever bundesliga goal .
karlsruhe looked on course for an important victory against hanover after alexander lashvili and lars stindl gave the home side a 2-0 lead after just 32 minutes .
however , sergio pinto and mikael forssell equalized matters before the break and hanno balitsch found a winner for hanover at the end of 64 minutes .
karlsruhe are last in the table with just 23 points and could be relegated on wednesday if three of the four teams directly above them win . av / ai / dpa / ap send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de wolfsburg on course for first-ever bundesliga title wolfsburg remain on target thrashing hoffenheim 4-0 as bayern win their first match in post-klinsmann era with four matches to play this season .
-lrb- 02.05.2009 -rrb- bremen ends hamburg hopes for bundesliga title bremen once again outclassed hamburg when they beat their northern german rivals 2-0 in a bundesliga match on sunday , all but killing off the side 's hopes for a league title .
-lrb- 10.05.2009 -rrb- gomez scores four as stuttgart thrashes wolfsburg mario gomez scored all four goals to take vfb stuttgart to a stunning 4-1 victory over bundesliga leaders vfl wolfsburg on saturday .
defending champions bayern munich won 3-1 against energie cottbus .
-lrb- 09.05.2009 -rrb- 9798 dw-tv europe live typisch deutsch - leben in deutschland we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio listen to the latest from german soccer on dw-radio .
sports report final standings click here for the final 2010-11 bundesliga table . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
french lawmakers to pull the plug on internet pirates -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 06.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de internet -pipe- 13.05.2009 french lawmakers to pull the plug on internet pirates großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : sarkozy championed the new legislation france has passed a bill that will let authorities track illegal downloading over the internet and disconnect repeat offenders .
opponents are critical of the law , arguing that access to the web is a fundamental right . the french senate on wednesday overwhelmingly voted into law a controversial measure that will cut off internet access to people who repeatedly download copyrighted music , films or video games without paying .
the vote , which had already passed the lower house by a narrow margin on tuesday , represents a success for president nicolas sarkozy , who championed the groundbreaking law .
the opposition socialists alienated many of their traditional supporters in the arts world by fighting the move .
the legislation aims to protect the revenues of record and film companies and recording artists .
after two warnings pirates will be cut off the tough new laws would punish music download pirates by shutting off their internet access for up to a year .
under the terms of the bill , internet pirates will receive two warnings , but their internet connection will be cut after the third offence .
during the time they are disconnected , they will have to continue paying their internet provider .
the music and film industries in france and abroad have shown wide support for the bill , but consumer groups and the socialist opposition have warned it would be difficult to implement .
opponents have criticized the penalties , and say access to the internet should be a fundamental right .
consumer groups said they feared intrusive monitoring of online activity and warn that innocent users may be unfairly punished if hackers use their accounts to download files .
the new law 's introduction onto the statute books is likely to be delayed by at least a month .
opponents have promised to challenge the legislation in france 's top court . ch / ncy / afp / reuters send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de major german online companies agree to block child porn websites german internet providers have grudgingly agreed to block websites containing child pornography .
critics say their deal with the government wo n't make much of a difference .
-lrb- 17.04.2009 -rrb- german artists defend copyright in google era google might reign as the unchallenged king of german search engines , but a lawsuit over the company 's popular image search feature brings into question the rights of german artists in the internet age .
-lrb- 21.10.2008 -rrb- new data law could benefit music pirates germany 's music industry fears that a new telephone data law could become a carte blanche for internet users , who download tunes illegally .
until now , they 've traced music pirates with the help of phone records .
-lrb- 30.03.2008 -rrb- 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit tagesthema we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
history austria returns the remains of 30 australian aborigines to their descendants after 100 years .
listen to the audio nuclear power france is n't following germany 's lead when it comes to shunning nuclear power .
watch the video espionage a russian court convicts a former intelligence officer for betraying 10 russian spies in the us .
listen to the audio poland a politician 's comment about the polish region of silesia stirs up an old debate about identity .
watch the video inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
french lawmakers to pull the plug on internet pirates -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 01.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de internet -pipe- 13.05.2009 french lawmakers to pull the plug on internet pirates großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : sarkozy championed the new legislation france has passed a bill that will let authorities track illegal downloading over the internet and disconnect repeat offenders .
opponents are critical of the law , arguing that access to the web is a fundamental right . the french senate on wednesday overwhelmingly voted into law a controversial measure that will cut off internet access to people who repeatedly download copyrighted music , films or video games without paying .
the vote , which had already passed the lower house by a narrow margin on tuesday , represents a success for president nicolas sarkozy , who championed the groundbreaking law .
the opposition socialists alienated many of their traditional supporters in the arts world by fighting the move .
the legislation aims to protect the revenues of record and film companies and recording artists .
after two warnings pirates will be cut off the tough new laws would punish music download pirates by shutting off their internet access for up to a year .
under the terms of the bill , internet pirates will receive two warnings , but their internet connection will be cut after the third offence .
during the time they are disconnected , they will have to continue paying their internet provider .
the music and film industries in france and abroad have shown wide support for the bill , but consumer groups and the socialist opposition have warned it would be difficult to implement .
opponents have criticized the penalties , and say access to the internet should be a fundamental right .
consumer groups said they feared intrusive monitoring of online activity and warn that innocent users may be unfairly punished if hackers use their accounts to download files .
the new law 's introduction onto the statute books is likely to be delayed by at least a month .
opponents have promised to challenge the legislation in france 's top court . ch / ncy / afp / reuters send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de major german online companies agree to block child porn websites german internet providers have grudgingly agreed to block websites containing child pornography .
critics say their deal with the government wo n't make much of a difference .
-lrb- 17.04.2009 -rrb- german artists defend copyright in google era google might reign as the unchallenged king of german search engines , but a lawsuit over the company 's popular image search feature brings into question the rights of german artists in the internet age .
-lrb- 21.10.2008 -rrb- new data law could benefit music pirates germany 's music industry fears that a new telephone data law could become a carte blanche for internet users , who download tunes illegally .
until now , they 've traced music pirates with the help of phone records .
-lrb- 30.03.2008 -rrb- 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live europa aktuell we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live world in progress as south sudan independence nears , threat of death is constant listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
spain deutsche welle takes a closer look at the protesters camped out in central madrid .
watch the video nuclear energy politicians in nuclear giant france decry germany 's decision to abandon the technology .
listen to the audio postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
french burqa ban fits secular ideals is berlusconi giving italy a bad name ?
a dubious record for belgium inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
french lawmakers to pull the plug on internet pirates -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 28.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de internet -pipe- 13.05.2009 french lawmakers to pull the plug on internet pirates großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : sarkozy championed the new legislation france has passed a bill that will let authorities track illegal downloading over the internet and disconnect repeat offenders .
opponents are critical of the law , arguing that access to the web is a fundamental right . the french senate on wednesday overwhelmingly voted into law a controversial measure that will cut off internet access to people who repeatedly download copyrighted music , films or video games without paying .
the vote , which had already passed the lower house by a narrow margin on tuesday , represents a success for president nicolas sarkozy , who championed the groundbreaking law .
the opposition socialists alienated many of their traditional supporters in the arts world by fighting the move .
the legislation aims to protect the revenues of record and film companies and recording artists .
after two warnings pirates will be cut off the tough new laws would punish music download pirates by shutting off their internet access for up to a year .
under the terms of the bill , internet pirates will receive two warnings , but their internet connection will be cut after the third offence .
during the time they are disconnected , they will have to continue paying their internet provider .
the music and film industries in france and abroad have shown wide support for the bill , but consumer groups and the socialist opposition have warned it would be difficult to implement .
opponents have criticized the penalties , and say access to the internet should be a fundamental right .
consumer groups said they feared intrusive monitoring of online activity and warn that innocent users may be unfairly punished if hackers use their accounts to download files .
the new law 's introduction onto the statute books is likely to be delayed by at least a month .
opponents have promised to challenge the legislation in france 's top court . ch / ncy / afp / reuters send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de major german online companies agree to block child porn websites german internet providers have grudgingly agreed to block websites containing child pornography .
critics say their deal with the government wo n't make much of a difference .
-lrb- 17.04.2009 -rrb- german artists defend copyright in google era google might reign as the unchallenged king of german search engines , but a lawsuit over the company 's popular image search feature brings into question the rights of german artists in the internet age .
-lrb- 21.10.2008 -rrb- new data law could benefit music pirates germany 's music industry fears that a new telephone data law could become a carte blanche for internet users , who download tunes illegally .
until now , they 've traced music pirates with the help of phone records .
-lrb- 30.03.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live arts on the air listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
trans-atlantic relations transatlantic voices the disunity among eu member states renders eu foreign policy on libya virtually nonexistent .
foreign trade the golden easter bunny from lindt & sprüngli is looking to hop further afield .
watch the video new-look team austria 's soon-to-be vice-chancellor names an unprecendented number of women to his cabinet .
listen to the audio postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
french burqa ban fits secular ideals is berlusconi giving italy a bad name ?
a dubious record for belgium inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
french lawmakers to pull the plug on internet pirates -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 25.03.2011 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de internet -pipe- 13.05.2009 french lawmakers to pull the plug on internet pirates großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : sarkozy championed the new legislation france has passed a bill that will let authorities track illegal downloading over the internet and disconnect repeat offenders .
opponents are critical of the law , arguing that access to the web is a fundamental right . the french senate on wednesday overwhelmingly voted into law a controversial measure that will cut off internet access to people who repeatedly download copyrighted music , films or video games without paying .
the vote , which had already passed the lower house by a narrow margin on tuesday , represents a success for president nicolas sarkozy , who championed the groundbreaking law .
the opposition socialists alienated many of their traditional supporters in the arts world by fighting the move .
the legislation aims to protect the revenues of record and film companies and recording artists .
after two warnings pirates will be cut off the tough new laws would punish music download pirates by shutting off their internet access for up to a year .
under the terms of the bill , internet pirates will receive two warnings , but their internet connection will be cut after the third offence .
during the time they are disconnected , they will have to continue paying their internet provider .
the music and film industries in france and abroad have shown wide support for the bill , but consumer groups and the socialist opposition have warned it would be difficult to implement .
opponents have criticized the penalties , and say access to the internet should be a fundamental right .
consumer groups said they feared intrusive monitoring of online activity and warn that innocent users may be unfairly punished if hackers use their accounts to download files .
the new law 's introduction onto the statute books is likely to be delayed by at least a month .
opponents have promised to challenge the legislation in france 's top court . ch / ncy / afp / reuters send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de major german online companies agree to block child porn websites german internet providers have grudgingly agreed to block websites containing child pornography .
critics say their deal with the government wo n't make much of a difference .
-lrb- 17.04.2009 -rrb- german artists defend copyright in google era google might reign as the unchallenged king of german search engines , but a lawsuit over the company 's popular image search feature brings into question the rights of german artists in the internet age .
-lrb- 21.10.2008 -rrb- new data law could benefit music pirates germany 's music industry fears that a new telephone data law could become a carte blanche for internet users , who download tunes illegally .
until now , they 've traced music pirates with the help of phone records .
-lrb- 30.03.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live quadriga we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live european business week money , power and heavy metal listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
italians hard hit by plastic bag ban east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
french lawmakers to pull the plug on internet pirates -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.12.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de internet -pipe- 13.05.2009 french lawmakers to pull the plug on internet pirates großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : sarkozy championed the new legislation france has passed a bill that will let authorities track illegal downloading over the internet and disconnect repeat offenders .
opponents are critical of the law , arguing that access to the web is a fundamental right . the french senate on wednesday overwhelmingly voted into law a controversial measure that will cut off internet access to people who repeatedly download copyrighted music , films or video games without paying .
the vote , which had already passed the lower house by a narrow margin on tuesday , represents a success for president nicolas sarkozy , who championed the groundbreaking law .
the opposition socialists alienated many of their traditional supporters in the arts world by fighting the move .
the legislation aims to protect the revenues of record and film companies and recording artists .
after two warnings pirates will be cut off the tough new laws would punish music download pirates by shutting off their internet access for up to a year .
under the terms of the bill , internet pirates will receive two warnings , but their internet connection will be cut after the third offence .
during the time they are disconnected , they will have to continue paying their internet provider .
the music and film industries in france and abroad have shown wide support for the bill , but consumer groups and the socialist opposition have warned it would be difficult to implement .
opponents have criticized the penalties , and say access to the internet should be a fundamental right .
consumer groups said they feared intrusive monitoring of online activity and warn that innocent users may be unfairly punished if hackers use their accounts to download files .
the new law 's introduction onto the statute books is likely to be delayed by at least a month .
opponents have promised to challenge the legislation in france 's top court . ch / ncy / afp / reuters send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de major german online companies agree to block child porn websites german internet providers have grudgingly agreed to block websites containing child pornography .
critics say their deal with the government wo n't make much of a difference .
-lrb- 17.04.2009 -rrb- german artists defend copyright in google era google might reign as the unchallenged king of german search engines , but a lawsuit over the company 's popular image search feature brings into question the rights of german artists in the internet age .
-lrb- 21.10.2008 -rrb- new data law could benefit music pirates germany 's music industry fears that a new telephone data law could become a carte blanche for internet users , who download tunes illegally .
until now , they 've traced music pirates with the help of phone records .
-lrb- 30.03.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live tomorrow today we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live in-box feedback from around the world listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
french lawmakers to pull the plug on internet pirates -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 26.10.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de internet -pipe- 13.05.2009 french lawmakers to pull the plug on internet pirates großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : sarkozy championed the new legislation france has passed a bill that will let authorities track illegal downloading over the internet and disconnect repeat offenders .
opponents are critical of the law , arguing that access to the web is a fundamental right . the french senate on wednesday overwhelmingly voted into law a controversial measure that will cut off internet access to people who repeatedly download copyrighted music , films or video games without paying .
the vote , which had already passed the lower house by a narrow margin on tuesday , represents a success for president nicolas sarkozy , who championed the groundbreaking law .
the opposition socialists alienated many of their traditional supporters in the arts world by fighting the move .
the legislation aims to protect the revenues of record and film companies and recording artists .
after two warnings pirates will be cut off the tough new laws would punish music download pirates by shutting off their internet access for up to a year .
under the terms of the bill , internet pirates will receive two warnings , but their internet connection will be cut after the third offence .
during the time they are disconnected , they will have to continue paying their internet provider .
the music and film industries in france and abroad have shown wide support for the bill , but consumer groups and the socialist opposition have warned it would be difficult to implement .
opponents have criticized the penalties , and say access to the internet should be a fundamental right .
consumer groups said they feared intrusive monitoring of online activity and warn that innocent users may be unfairly punished if hackers use their accounts to download files .
the new law 's introduction onto the statute books is likely to be delayed by at least a month .
opponents have promised to challenge the legislation in france 's top court . ch / ncy / afp / reuters send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de major german online companies agree to block child porn websites german internet providers have grudgingly agreed to block websites containing child pornography .
critics say their deal with the government wo n't make much of a difference .
-lrb- 17.04.2009 -rrb- german artists defend copyright in google era google might reign as the unchallenged king of german search engines , but a lawsuit over the company 's popular image search feature brings into question the rights of german artists in the internet age .
-lrb- 21.10.2008 -rrb- new data law could benefit music pirates germany 's music industry fears that a new telephone data law could become a carte blanche for internet users , who download tunes illegally .
until now , they 've traced music pirates with the help of phone records .
-lrb- 30.03.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink news and perspectives from the heart of europe listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
quo vadis bosnia ?
betancourt book sparks controversy in france technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
french lawmakers to pull the plug on internet pirates -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 20.09.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de internet -pipe- 13.05.2009 french lawmakers to pull the plug on internet pirates großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : sarkozy championed the new legislation france has passed a bill that will let authorities track illegal downloading over the internet and disconnect repeat offenders .
opponents are critical of the law , arguing that access to the web is a fundamental right . the french senate on wednesday overwhelmingly voted into law a controversial measure that will cut off internet access to people who repeatedly download copyrighted music , films or video games without paying .
the vote , which had already passed the lower house by a narrow margin on tuesday , represents a success for president nicolas sarkozy , who championed the groundbreaking law .
the opposition socialists alienated many of their traditional supporters in the arts world by fighting the move .
the legislation aims to protect the revenues of record and film companies and recording artists .
after two warnings pirates will be cut off the tough new laws would punish music download pirates by shutting off their internet access for up to a year .
under the terms of the bill , internet pirates will receive two warnings , but their internet connection will be cut after the third offence .
during the time they are disconnected , they will have to continue paying their internet provider .
the music and film industries in france and abroad have shown wide support for the bill , but consumer groups and the socialist opposition have warned it would be difficult to implement .
opponents have criticized the penalties , and say access to the internet should be a fundamental right .
consumer groups said they feared intrusive monitoring of online activity and warn that innocent users may be unfairly punished if hackers use their accounts to download files .
the new law 's introduction onto the statute books is likely to be delayed by at least a month .
opponents have promised to challenge the legislation in france 's top court . ch / ncy / afp / reuters send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de major german online companies agree to block child porn websites german internet providers have grudgingly agreed to block websites containing child pornography .
critics say their deal with the government wo n't make much of a difference .
-lrb- 17.04.2009 -rrb- german artists defend copyright in google era google might reign as the unchallenged king of german search engines , but a lawsuit over the company 's popular image search feature brings into question the rights of german artists in the internet age .
-lrb- 21.10.2008 -rrb- new data law could benefit music pirates germany 's music industry fears that a new telephone data law could become a carte blanche for internet users , who download tunes illegally .
until now , they 've traced music pirates with the help of phone records .
-lrb- 30.03.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live hits in germany pop from the german top 100 listen live people natascha kampusch , the austrian who was kept prisoner from age 10 to 18 , publishes her autobigraphy .
listen to the report postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
postcard from europe : technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket are the gay games necessary ?
love parade - the end of an era europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany agrees on bad bank scheme -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 22.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de banking -pipe- 13.05.2009 germany agrees on bad bank scheme großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : steinbrueck wants to reassure voters they wo n't wear the cost of the bail-out the german cabinet has agreed on a plan to clean up toxic assets from bank balance sheets .
in the run-up to the election , the issue has become highly politically charged . the scheme , which forms a key element of berlin 's bid to turn europe 's biggest economy around , would allow banks to park their toxic assets for up to 20 years , in specially created institutions .
banks would receive government backed bonds in return .
finance minister peer steinbrueck said the banks would still be held responsible for the toxic assets and , in the long run , they would bear the cost of transferring and holding the assets .
just five months out from a national election , the issue has proved politically prickly .
politicians are torn between the pressing need to revive germany 's foundering banking sector and burdening taxpayers with a huge bank bailout .
berlin hopes that once the toxic holdings have been removed from banks ' balance sheets , they will begin lending to each other and to businesses and consumers again .
that is meant to jolt the german economy back to life .
economic forecasters predict 6 percent shrinkage in europe 's biggest economy in 2009 . ch / ncy / afp / dpa send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german government steps in to clean up banks ' toxic assets the german government has drawn up a draft plan to clean up toxic assets from banks ' balance sheets , a key part of berlin 's bid to turn around europe 's biggest economy .
-lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- koehler blasts banks for keeping quiet over financial crisis in run up to presidential race , german president horst koehler has hit out at bankers ' greed , but is optimistic that the dark cloud of global financial crisis will have a silver lining .
-lrb- 02.05.2009 -rrb- leaked list reveals german banks have 816 billion euros in toxic assets a german newspaper has published a leaked list from the bafin financial oversight group that shows german banks are weighed down under 816 billion euros in toxic assets .
-lrb- 25.04.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic sweden 's bad bank scheme what is a bad bank ? 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx - leben und kultur in europa we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive. diplomacy germany impounds a plane owned by thailand 's crown prince after bangkok fails to pay its debts .
watch the video dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
italian suspect in german mob killings to be extradited to italy -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 29.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de crime -pipe- 13.05.2009 italian suspect in german mob killings to be extradited to italy großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : strangio has been top of the most-wanted lists both in germany and in italy giovanni strangio , an italian-born top suspect in a 2007 mafia shootout in germany , is to be extradited to italy , not germany , a dutch court ruled on wednesday . judge fred salomon said strangio , who was arrested in march in the netherlands , would be handed over to italian authorities because italy 's claim to the suspect was stronger than germany 's .
" the italian -lrb- extradition -rrb- request enjoys priority , " salomon said as he handed down the ruling in an amsterdam court . strangio , 30 , is an alleged leading member of the notorious southern italian mafia ' ndrangheta and one of the most wanted people in germany and italy .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the six victims in the duisburg mafia killings were shot in their cars he is suspected of being the ringleader of a shootout that left six rival clan members dead outside a pizzeria in duisburg , western germany , in august 2007 .
germany still wants strangio public prosecutors in duisburg had been trying to get strangio extradited to germany to try him in a local court .
but in recent weeks , it was widely expected that the dutch court would rule in favor of italy .
prosecutors in duisburg have agreed that strangio should be taken first to italy , spokesman detlef nowotsch said .
" we are stepping back for the time being , " nowotsch said .
" but that does n't mean that we do n't want strangio , " he added .
italy 's case for strangio stronger , judge says on wednesday , salomon said italy 's reasons for wanting to try strangio on home soil were more compelling than germany 's .
the judge said the german killings had been the result of clashes between rival clans in the italian town of san luca .
" therefore the relation with italy is bigger than the relation with duisburg where the crime took place , " salomon said .
the judge also pointed out that italy was seeking to prosecute strangio not only for the 2007 killings , but also for membership of a criminal organization .
" furthermore , all the victims had italian nationality , " he said .
strangio is to be transferred to italian custody from his dutch prison in the next 10 days .
killings draw attention to ' ndrangheta mafia the execution-style shootings in duisburg , which grabbed headlines in germany , stemmed from a feud between two rival clans .
the bloody crime drew international attention to the ' ndrangheta , a crime syndicate based in the southern italian region of calabria .
witnesses said they saw two attackers fire about 70 bullets at the six victims , aged 16 to 39 , as they were sitting in their cars after leaving the da bruno restaurant in the industrial city .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the killings outside the da bruno restaurant in duisburg sent shockwaves through germany the duisburg hit was believed to have been revenge for the 2006 christmas-time killing of maria strangio , a cousin of giovanni strangio and the wife of the head of the nirta-strangio clan , giovanni nirta , and the wounding of her son .
the battle between the rival clans has left 16 people dead since 1991 .
in march , an italian court jailed 31 people for the duisburg massacre , one of them for 13 years .
italy 's eurispes social studies institute has estimated ' ndrangheta 's turnover from trafficking in drugs and arms , prostitution and extortion in 2007 at 44 billion euros -lrb- $ 65 billion -rrb- .
strangio was arrested in march in the dutch town of diemen , after a lengthy probe involving telephone wire tapping , surveillance and close coordination between dutch , german and italian police . sp / pfd dpa / afp / reuters send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de dutch police arrest top suspect in duisburg mafia massacre dutch police have arrested an italian man named by authorities as the main suspect for the 2007 murder of six men outside a duisburg restaurant .
the man 's brother-in-law was also arrested during the operation .
-lrb- 13.03.2009 -rrb- police nab mafia boss tied to duisburg killings a suspected mafia boss who was implicated in the execution-style killings of six members of his clan in duisburg , germany , in 2007 , was finally tracked down in italy .
-lrb- 16.10.2008 -rrb- police arrest mafia boss with ties to duisburg massacre italian police arrested a wanted calabrian mafia boss who is the brother-in-law of a chief suspect in the august 2007 killings of six italians in duisburg , news reports said on thursday , aug .
7 .
-lrb- 07.08.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
trans-atlantic relations transatlantic voices the disunity among eu member states renders eu foreign policy on libya virtually nonexistent .
foreign trade the golden easter bunny from lindt & sprüngli is looking to hop further afield .
watch the video new-look team austria 's soon-to-be vice-chancellor names an unprecendented number of women to his cabinet .
listen to the audio postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
french burqa ban fits secular ideals is berlusconi giving italy a bad name ?
a dubious record for belgium inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
italian suspect in german mob killings to be extradited to italy -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 26.03.2011 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de crime -pipe- 13.05.2009 italian suspect in german mob killings to be extradited to italy großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : strangio has been top of the most-wanted lists both in germany and in italy giovanni strangio , an italian-born top suspect in a 2007 mafia shootout in germany , is to be extradited to italy , not germany , a dutch court ruled on wednesday . judge fred salomon said strangio , who was arrested in march in the netherlands , would be handed over to italian authorities because italy 's claim to the suspect was stronger than germany 's .
" the italian -lrb- extradition -rrb- request enjoys priority , " salomon said as he handed down the ruling in an amsterdam court . strangio , 30 , is an alleged leading member of the notorious southern italian mafia ' ndrangheta and one of the most wanted people in germany and italy .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the six victims in the duisburg mafia killings were shot in their cars he is suspected of being the ringleader of a shootout that left six rival clan members dead outside a pizzeria in duisburg , western germany , in august 2007 .
germany still wants strangio public prosecutors in duisburg had been trying to get strangio extradited to germany to try him in a local court .
but in recent weeks , it was widely expected that the dutch court would rule in favor of italy .
prosecutors in duisburg have agreed that strangio should be taken first to italy , spokesman detlef nowotsch said .
" we are stepping back for the time being , " nowotsch said .
" but that does n't mean that we do n't want strangio , " he added .
italy 's case for strangio stronger , judge says on wednesday , salomon said italy 's reasons for wanting to try strangio on home soil were more compelling than germany 's .
the judge said the german killings had been the result of clashes between rival clans in the italian town of san luca .
" therefore the relation with italy is bigger than the relation with duisburg where the crime took place , " salomon said .
the judge also pointed out that italy was seeking to prosecute strangio not only for the 2007 killings , but also for membership of a criminal organization .
" furthermore , all the victims had italian nationality , " he said .
strangio is to be transferred to italian custody from his dutch prison in the next 10 days .
killings draw attention to ' ndrangheta mafia the execution-style shootings in duisburg , which grabbed headlines in germany , stemmed from a feud between two rival clans .
the bloody crime drew international attention to the ' ndrangheta , a crime syndicate based in the southern italian region of calabria .
witnesses said they saw two attackers fire about 70 bullets at the six victims , aged 16 to 39 , as they were sitting in their cars after leaving the da bruno restaurant in the industrial city .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the killings outside the da bruno restaurant in duisburg sent shockwaves through germany the duisburg hit was believed to have been revenge for the 2006 christmas-time killing of maria strangio , a cousin of giovanni strangio and the wife of the head of the nirta-strangio clan , giovanni nirta , and the wounding of her son .
the battle between the rival clans has left 16 people dead since 1991 .
in march , an italian court jailed 31 people for the duisburg massacre , one of them for 13 years .
italy 's eurispes social studies institute has estimated ' ndrangheta 's turnover from trafficking in drugs and arms , prostitution and extortion in 2007 at 44 billion euros -lrb- $ 65 billion -rrb- .
strangio was arrested in march in the dutch town of diemen , after a lengthy probe involving telephone wire tapping , surveillance and close coordination between dutch , german and italian police . sp / pfd dpa / afp / reuters send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de dutch police arrest top suspect in duisburg mafia massacre dutch police have arrested an italian man named by authorities as the main suspect for the 2007 murder of six men outside a duisburg restaurant .
the man 's brother-in-law was also arrested during the operation .
-lrb- 13.03.2009 -rrb- police nab mafia boss tied to duisburg killings a suspected mafia boss who was implicated in the execution-style killings of six members of his clan in duisburg , germany , in 2007 , was finally tracked down in italy .
-lrb- 16.10.2008 -rrb- police arrest mafia boss with ties to duisburg massacre italian police arrested a wanted calabrian mafia boss who is the brother-in-law of a chief suspect in the august 2007 killings of six italians in duisburg , news reports said on thursday , aug .
7 .
-lrb- 07.08.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live in focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
italians hard hit by plastic bag ban east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
italian suspect in german mob killings to be extradited to italy -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.12.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de crime -pipe- 13.05.2009 italian suspect in german mob killings to be extradited to italy großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : strangio has been top of the most-wanted lists both in germany and in italy giovanni strangio , an italian-born top suspect in a 2007 mafia shootout in germany , is to be extradited to italy , not germany , a dutch court ruled on wednesday . judge fred salomon said strangio , who was arrested in march in the netherlands , would be handed over to italian authorities because italy 's claim to the suspect was stronger than germany 's .
" the italian -lrb- extradition -rrb- request enjoys priority , " salomon said as he handed down the ruling in an amsterdam court . strangio , 30 , is an alleged leading member of the notorious southern italian mafia ' ndrangheta and one of the most wanted people in germany and italy .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the six victims in the duisburg mafia killings were shot in their cars he is suspected of being the ringleader of a shootout that left six rival clan members dead outside a pizzeria in duisburg , western germany , in august 2007 .
germany still wants strangio public prosecutors in duisburg had been trying to get strangio extradited to germany to try him in a local court .
but in recent weeks , it was widely expected that the dutch court would rule in favor of italy .
prosecutors in duisburg have agreed that strangio should be taken first to italy , spokesman detlef nowotsch said .
" we are stepping back for the time being , " nowotsch said .
" but that does n't mean that we do n't want strangio , " he added .
italy 's case for strangio stronger , judge says on wednesday , salomon said italy 's reasons for wanting to try strangio on home soil were more compelling than germany 's .
the judge said the german killings had been the result of clashes between rival clans in the italian town of san luca .
" therefore the relation with italy is bigger than the relation with duisburg where the crime took place , " salomon said .
the judge also pointed out that italy was seeking to prosecute strangio not only for the 2007 killings , but also for membership of a criminal organization .
" furthermore , all the victims had italian nationality , " he said .
strangio is to be transferred to italian custody from his dutch prison in the next 10 days .
killings draw attention to ' ndrangheta mafia the execution-style shootings in duisburg , which grabbed headlines in germany , stemmed from a feud between two rival clans .
the bloody crime drew international attention to the ' ndrangheta , a crime syndicate based in the southern italian region of calabria .
witnesses said they saw two attackers fire about 70 bullets at the six victims , aged 16 to 39 , as they were sitting in their cars after leaving the da bruno restaurant in the industrial city .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the killings outside the da bruno restaurant in duisburg sent shockwaves through germany the duisburg hit was believed to have been revenge for the 2006 christmas-time killing of maria strangio , a cousin of giovanni strangio and the wife of the head of the nirta-strangio clan , giovanni nirta , and the wounding of her son .
the battle between the rival clans has left 16 people dead since 1991 .
in march , an italian court jailed 31 people for the duisburg massacre , one of them for 13 years .
italy 's eurispes social studies institute has estimated ' ndrangheta 's turnover from trafficking in drugs and arms , prostitution and extortion in 2007 at 44 billion euros -lrb- $ 65 billion -rrb- .
strangio was arrested in march in the dutch town of diemen , after a lengthy probe involving telephone wire tapping , surveillance and close coordination between dutch , german and italian police . sp / pfd dpa / afp / reuters send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de dutch police arrest top suspect in duisburg mafia massacre dutch police have arrested an italian man named by authorities as the main suspect for the 2007 murder of six men outside a duisburg restaurant .
the man 's brother-in-law was also arrested during the operation .
-lrb- 13.03.2009 -rrb- police nab mafia boss tied to duisburg killings a suspected mafia boss who was implicated in the execution-style killings of six members of his clan in duisburg , germany , in 2007 , was finally tracked down in italy .
-lrb- 16.10.2008 -rrb- police arrest mafia boss with ties to duisburg massacre italian police arrested a wanted calabrian mafia boss who is the brother-in-law of a chief suspect in the august 2007 killings of six italians in duisburg , news reports said on thursday , aug .
7 .
-lrb- 07.08.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live global 3000 we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live hits in germany pop from the german top 100 listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
italian suspect in german mob killings to be extradited to italy -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.10.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de crime -pipe- 13.05.2009 italian suspect in german mob killings to be extradited to italy großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : strangio has been top of the most-wanted lists both in germany and in italy giovanni strangio , an italian-born top suspect in a 2007 mafia shootout in germany , is to be extradited to italy , not germany , a dutch court ruled on wednesday . judge fred salomon said strangio , who was arrested in march in the netherlands , would be handed over to italian authorities because italy 's claim to the suspect was stronger than germany 's .
" the italian -lrb- extradition -rrb- request enjoys priority , " salomon said as he handed down the ruling in an amsterdam court . strangio , 30 , is an alleged leading member of the notorious southern italian mafia ' ndrangheta and one of the most wanted people in germany and italy .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the six victims in the duisburg mafia killings were shot in their cars he is suspected of being the ringleader of a shootout that left six rival clan members dead outside a pizzeria in duisburg , western germany , in august 2007 .
germany still wants strangio public prosecutors in duisburg had been trying to get strangio extradited to germany to try him in a local court .
but in recent weeks , it was widely expected that the dutch court would rule in favor of italy .
prosecutors in duisburg have agreed that strangio should be taken first to italy , spokesman detlef nowotsch said .
" we are stepping back for the time being , " nowotsch said .
" but that does n't mean that we do n't want strangio , " he added .
italy 's case for strangio stronger , judge says on wednesday , salomon said italy 's reasons for wanting to try strangio on home soil were more compelling than germany 's .
the judge said the german killings had been the result of clashes between rival clans in the italian town of san luca .
" therefore the relation with italy is bigger than the relation with duisburg where the crime took place , " salomon said .
the judge also pointed out that italy was seeking to prosecute strangio not only for the 2007 killings , but also for membership of a criminal organization .
" furthermore , all the victims had italian nationality , " he said .
strangio is to be transferred to italian custody from his dutch prison in the next 10 days .
killings draw attention to ' ndrangheta mafia the execution-style shootings in duisburg , which grabbed headlines in germany , stemmed from a feud between two rival clans .
the bloody crime drew international attention to the ' ndrangheta , a crime syndicate based in the southern italian region of calabria .
witnesses said they saw two attackers fire about 70 bullets at the six victims , aged 16 to 39 , as they were sitting in their cars after leaving the da bruno restaurant in the industrial city .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the killings outside the da bruno restaurant in duisburg sent shockwaves through germany the duisburg hit was believed to have been revenge for the 2006 christmas-time killing of maria strangio , a cousin of giovanni strangio and the wife of the head of the nirta-strangio clan , giovanni nirta , and the wounding of her son .
the battle between the rival clans has left 16 people dead since 1991 .
in march , an italian court jailed 31 people for the duisburg massacre , one of them for 13 years .
italy 's eurispes social studies institute has estimated ' ndrangheta 's turnover from trafficking in drugs and arms , prostitution and extortion in 2007 at 44 billion euros -lrb- $ 65 billion -rrb- .
strangio was arrested in march in the dutch town of diemen , after a lengthy probe involving telephone wire tapping , surveillance and close coordination between dutch , german and italian police . sp / pfd dpa / afp / reuters send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de dutch police arrest top suspect in duisburg mafia massacre dutch police have arrested an italian man named by authorities as the main suspect for the 2007 murder of six men outside a duisburg restaurant .
the man 's brother-in-law was also arrested during the operation .
-lrb- 13.03.2009 -rrb- police nab mafia boss tied to duisburg killings a suspected mafia boss who was implicated in the execution-style killings of six members of his clan in duisburg , germany , in 2007 , was finally tracked down in italy .
-lrb- 16.10.2008 -rrb- police arrest mafia boss with ties to duisburg massacre italian police arrested a wanted calabrian mafia boss who is the brother-in-law of a chief suspect in the august 2007 killings of six italians in duisburg , news reports said on thursday , aug .
7 .
-lrb- 07.08.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
quo vadis bosnia ?
betancourt book sparks controversy in france technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
berlin unveils plan to help rid banks of toxic assets -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.11.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de economy -pipe- 13.05.2009 berlin unveils plan to help rid banks of toxic assets großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : banks can now move to clean up their balance sheets the german cabinet has approved a draft law to help rid lenders of an estimated 200 billion euros -lrb- $ 272 billion -rrb- in worthless assets .
banks can swap the assets against guaranteed state loans for up to 20 years . the aim of the " bad bank " plan is to clean up lenders ' balance sheets and restore confidence in the financial sector .
the bill , drafted by finance minister peer steinbrueck , would enable banks to receive state guaranteed loans on commercial terms , in exchange for offloading their troubled assets .
through the government 's financial market stabilization fund , soffin , lenders would be able to swap toxic assets for guaranteed state loans worth 90 percent of the original value of the assets .
lenders would pay an annual fee and be able to " freeze " the assets until better times come along . after a maximum of 20 years , they would have to pay back any losses to the government .
some believe the german banks hold more than 200 billion euros of troubled assets .
" in the interests of the real economy , we are buying time so that the so-called toxic assets can be cleared up , " explained chancellor angela merkel 's chief of staff , thomas de maiziere .
what 's worthless today , may not be tomorrow bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : german finance minister peer steinbrueck says taxpayers will not foot the bill " it 's not clear how toxic these assets really are , " said finance expert , otto salms of the liberal free democrats -lrb- fdp -rrb- .
" some of these assets may well be worth more again once the crisis ends and the economy recovers .
if that 's the case , the banks may end up having to write off much less at a later date than they would if they were forced to liquidate these assets today . "
economic recovery and financial liquidity go hand in hand .
one of the factors that 's been driving the crisis around the world is that banks have stopped lending to each other because they have n't been able to assess the size of the financial black holes on each other 's balance sheets .
berlin hopes that by removing bad holdings from balance sheets banks will start lending to each other again , as well as to businesses and consumers .
this in turn would help kick-start the german economy , the biggest in europe , which is expected to shrink by six percent this year .
shareholders , not taxpayers , to bear the burden under the plan , which comes five months before a general election , any liabilities at the end of maturity would accrue to shareholders , and not to the taxpayer .
" it 's only right that whoever made profits through taking high risks over the years , must also be prepared to take the losses , " explained financial expert johannes kahrs , of the social democrats -lrb- spd -rrb- , the coalition partners of chancellor angela merkel 's christian democrats -lrb- cdu -rrb- . "
i think that 's reasonable , it 's a basic economic principle . "
some critics say the scheme is flawed because it is voluntary .
banks are not to be forced to dispose of toxic assets through the soffin national rescue program .
the government insists that " good banks " are interesting for investors and a cleaned up , reliable balance sheet will attract capital .
the draft legislation still has to go before both the lower and upper houses of parliament , the bundestag und bundesrat . wl / pfd / afp / ard send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de financial watchdog chief calls for " bad bank " for toxic assets the head of a watchdog committee of germany 's bank stabilization fund has called for the creation of a " bad bank " that could buy up toxic assets and unblock interbank lending .
-lrb- 11.01.2009 -rrb- us mortgage crisis hits german banks the battered subprime mortgage market in the united states is increasingly impacting the us economy .
now , losses from risky us home loans to borrowers with poor credit histories have swept across the atlantic .
-lrb- 31.07.2007 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic the german cabinet backs plan to relieve the country 's banks of their toxic assets feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
berlin unveils plan to help rid banks of toxic assets -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.09.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de economy -pipe- 13.05.2009 berlin unveils plan to help rid banks of toxic assets großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : banks can now move to clean up their balance sheets the german cabinet has approved a draft law to help rid lenders of an estimated 200 billion euros -lrb- $ 272 billion -rrb- in worthless assets .
banks can swap the assets against guaranteed state loans for up to 20 years . the aim of the " bad bank " plan is to clean up lenders ' balance sheets and restore confidence in the financial sector .
the bill , drafted by finance minister peer steinbrueck , would enable banks to receive state guaranteed loans on commercial terms , in exchange for offloading their troubled assets .
through the government 's financial market stabilization fund , soffin , lenders would be able to swap toxic assets for guaranteed state loans worth 90 percent of the original value of the assets .
lenders would pay an annual fee and be able to " freeze " the assets until better times come along . after a maximum of 20 years , they would have to pay back any losses to the government .
some believe the german banks hold more than 200 billion euros of troubled assets .
" in the interests of the real economy , we are buying time so that the so-called toxic assets can be cleared up , " explained chancellor angela merkel 's chief of staff , thomas de maiziere .
what 's worthless today , may not be tomorrow bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : german finance minister peer steinbrueck says taxpayers will not foot the bill " it 's not clear how toxic these assets really are , " said finance expert , otto salms of the liberal free democrats -lrb- fdp -rrb- .
" some of these assets may well be worth more again once the crisis ends and the economy recovers .
if that 's the case , the banks may end up having to write off much less at a later date than they would if they were forced to liquidate these assets today . "
economic recovery and financial liquidity go hand in hand .
one of the factors that 's been driving the crisis around the world is that banks have stopped lending to each other because they have n't been able to assess the size of the financial black holes on each other 's balance sheets .
berlin hopes that by removing bad holdings from balance sheets banks will start lending to each other again , as well as to businesses and consumers .
this in turn would help kick-start the german economy , the biggest in europe , which is expected to shrink by six percent this year .
shareholders , not taxpayers , to bear the burden under the plan , which comes five months before a general election , any liabilities at the end of maturity would accrue to shareholders , and not to the taxpayer .
" it 's only right that whoever made profits through taking high risks over the years , must also be prepared to take the losses , " explained financial expert johannes kahrs , of the social democrats -lrb- spd -rrb- , the coalition partners of chancellor angela merkel 's christian democrats -lrb- cdu -rrb- . "
i think that 's reasonable , it 's a basic economic principle . "
some critics say the scheme is flawed because it is voluntary .
banks are not to be forced to dispose of toxic assets through the soffin national rescue program .
the government insists that " good banks " are interesting for investors and a cleaned up , reliable balance sheet will attract capital .
the draft legislation still has to go before both the lower and upper houses of parliament , the bundestag und bundesrat . wl / pfd / afp / ard send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de financial watchdog chief calls for " bad bank " for toxic assets the head of a watchdog committee of germany 's bank stabilization fund has called for the creation of a " bad bank " that could buy up toxic assets and unblock interbank lending .
-lrb- 11.01.2009 -rrb- us mortgage crisis hits german banks the battered subprime mortgage market in the united states is increasingly impacting the us economy .
now , losses from risky us home loans to borrowers with poor credit histories have swept across the atlantic .
-lrb- 31.07.2007 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic the german cabinet backs plan to relieve the country 's banks of their toxic assets feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live arts.21 we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live in-box feedback from around the world listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
van gaal to become next bayern munich coach -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 14.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de soccer -pipe- 13.05.2009 van gaal to become next bayern munich coach großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : futuer bayern munich head coach louis van gaal bayern munich are set to sign dutch coach louis van gaal ending weeks of speculation over who will be in charge of the bundesliga soccer club next season . bayern munich have confirmed that dutch coach louis van gaal will join the defending bundesliga champions as head coach on a two-year contract as of july 1 .
he is to replace interim coach jupp heynkes , who took over after juergen klinsmann was fired last month .
the coach who has led az alkmaar to their first dutch league title since 1981 , had been bayern 's first choice for the job . other managers under consideration are said to have included inter manager jose mourinho and arsenal 's arsene wenger .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bayern chairman karl-heinz rummenigge munich pleased with choice " we are happy that in louis van gaal we have managed to secure such an experienced and successful coach for bayern munich , " said bayern chairman karl-heinz rummenigge in a statement posted on the club 's website on wednesday .
having steered ajax to the champions league title in 1995 , van gaal , 57 , has a wealth of experience having also led the giants from amsterdam to consecutive dutch titles in 1994 , 1995 and 1996 .
after leading barcelona to back-to-back spanish league titles in 1998 and 1999 , the only blip in an otherwise exceptional career was when he took charge of the netherlands in 2000 .
when the dutch failed to reach the world cup finals in japan and south korea in 2002 , he was replaced by dick advocaat .
van gaal inherits a squad that is level on points with bundesliga leaders wolfsburg with two games remaining in the season .
he is expected to be closely involved in transfer decisions at the end of this season .
in return for alkmaar agreeing to release van gaal before his contract expires , bayern have agreed to play a friendly against alkmaar in the summer of 2010 without charging a fee . nt / pfd , sid / reuters / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report new feature week three picks dw sports sizes up the week three match-ups in the bundesliga .
and hopes to pick a couple right .
scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results at a glance .
dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia moenchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
van gaal to become next bayern munich coach -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 28.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de soccer -pipe- 13.05.2009 van gaal to become next bayern munich coach großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : futuer bayern munich head coach louis van gaal bayern munich are set to sign dutch coach louis van gaal ending weeks of speculation over who will be in charge of the bundesliga soccer club next season . bayern munich have confirmed that dutch coach louis van gaal will join the defending bundesliga champions as head coach on a two-year contract as of july 1 .
he is to replace interim coach jupp heynkes , who took over after juergen klinsmann was fired last month .
the coach who has led az alkmaar to their first dutch league title since 1981 , had been bayern 's first choice for the job . other managers under consideration are said to have included inter manager jose mourinho and arsenal 's arsene wenger .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bayern chairman karl-heinz rummenigge munich pleased with choice " we are happy that in louis van gaal we have managed to secure such an experienced and successful coach for bayern munich , " said bayern chairman karl-heinz rummenigge in a statement posted on the club 's website on wednesday .
having steered ajax to the champions league title in 1995 , van gaal , 57 , has a wealth of experience having also led the giants from amsterdam to consecutive dutch titles in 1994 , 1995 and 1996 .
after leading barcelona to back-to-back spanish league titles in 1998 and 1999 , the only blip in an otherwise exceptional career was when he took charge of the netherlands in 2000 .
when the dutch failed to reach the world cup finals in japan and south korea in 2002 , he was replaced by dick advocaat .
van gaal inherits a squad that is level on points with bundesliga leaders wolfsburg with two games remaining in the season .
he is expected to be closely involved in transfer decisions at the end of this season .
in return for alkmaar agreeing to release van gaal before his contract expires , bayern have agreed to play a friendly against alkmaar in the summer of 2010 without charging a fee . nt / pfd , sid / reuters / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 dw-tv europe live made in germany we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer on dw-radio .
sports report scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia mönchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany agrees on bad bank scheme -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de banking -pipe- 13.05.2009 germany agrees on bad bank scheme großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : steinbrueck wants to reassure voters they wo n't wear the cost of the bail-out the german cabinet has agreed on a plan to clean up toxic assets from bank balance sheets .
in the run-up to the election , the issue has become highly politically charged . the scheme , which forms a key element of berlin 's bid to turn europe 's biggest economy around , would allow banks to park their toxic assets for up to 20 years , in specially created institutions .
banks would receive government backed bonds in return .
finance minister peer steinbrueck said the banks would still be held responsible for the toxic assets and , in the long run , they would bear the cost of transferring and holding the assets .
just five months out from a national election , the issue has proved politically prickly .
politicians are torn between the pressing need to revive germany 's foundering banking sector and burdening taxpayers with a huge bank bailout .
berlin hopes that once the toxic holdings have been removed from banks ' balance sheets , they will begin lending to each other and to businesses and consumers again .
that is meant to jolt the german economy back to life .
economic forecasters predict 6 percent shrinkage in europe 's biggest economy in 2009 . ch / ncy / afp / dpa send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german government steps in to clean up banks ' toxic assets the german government has drawn up a draft plan to clean up toxic assets from banks ' balance sheets , a key part of berlin 's bid to turn around europe 's biggest economy .
-lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- koehler blasts banks for keeping quiet over financial crisis in run up to presidential race , german president horst koehler has hit out at bankers ' greed , but is optimistic that the dark cloud of global financial crisis will have a silver lining .
-lrb- 02.05.2009 -rrb- leaked list reveals german banks have 816 billion euros in toxic assets a german newspaper has published a leaked list from the bafin financial oversight group that shows german banks are weighed down under 816 billion euros in toxic assets .
-lrb- 25.04.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic sweden 's bad bank scheme what is a bad bank ? 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit interview we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inside europe listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
business the historic german brand faber-castell celebrates 250 years of making pencils and pens .
watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany agrees on bad bank scheme -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 22.09.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de banking -pipe- 13.05.2009 germany agrees on bad bank scheme großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : steinbrueck wants to reassure voters they wo n't wear the cost of the bail-out the german cabinet has agreed on a plan to clean up toxic assets from bank balance sheets .
in the run-up to the election , the issue has become highly politically charged . the scheme , which forms a key element of berlin 's bid to turn europe 's biggest economy around , would allow banks to park their toxic assets for up to 20 years , in specially created institutions .
banks would receive government backed bonds in return .
finance minister peer steinbrueck said the banks would still be held responsible for the toxic assets and , in the long run , they would bear the cost of transferring and holding the assets .
just five months out from a national election , the issue has proved politically prickly .
politicians are torn between the pressing need to revive germany 's foundering banking sector and burdening taxpayers with a huge bank bailout .
berlin hopes that once the toxic holdings have been removed from banks ' balance sheets , they will begin lending to each other and to businesses and consumers again .
that is meant to jolt the german economy back to life .
economic forecasters predict 6 percent shrinkage in europe 's biggest economy in 2009 . ch / ncy / afp / dpa send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german government steps in to clean up banks ' toxic assets the german government has drawn up a draft plan to clean up toxic assets from banks ' balance sheets , a key part of berlin 's bid to turn around europe 's biggest economy .
-lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- koehler blasts banks for keeping quiet over financial crisis in run up to presidential race , german president horst koehler has hit out at bankers ' greed , but is optimistic that the dark cloud of global financial crisis will have a silver lining .
-lrb- 02.05.2009 -rrb- leaked list reveals german banks have 816 billion euros in toxic assets a german newspaper has published a leaked list from the bafin financial oversight group that shows german banks are weighed down under 816 billion euros in toxic assets .
-lrb- 25.04.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic sweden 's bad bank scheme what is a bad bank ?
feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live motor mobil we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live spectrum listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany agrees on bad bank scheme -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 19.12.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de banking -pipe- 13.05.2009 germany agrees on bad bank scheme großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : steinbrueck wants to reassure voters they wo n't wear the cost of the bail-out the german cabinet has agreed on a plan to clean up toxic assets from bank balance sheets .
in the run-up to the election , the issue has become highly politically charged . the scheme , which forms a key element of berlin 's bid to turn europe 's biggest economy around , would allow banks to park their toxic assets for up to 20 years , in specially created institutions .
banks would receive government backed bonds in return .
finance minister peer steinbrueck said the banks would still be held responsible for the toxic assets and , in the long run , they would bear the cost of transferring and holding the assets .
just five months out from a national election , the issue has proved politically prickly .
politicians are torn between the pressing need to revive germany 's foundering banking sector and burdening taxpayers with a huge bank bailout .
berlin hopes that once the toxic holdings have been removed from banks ' balance sheets , they will begin lending to each other and to businesses and consumers again .
that is meant to jolt the german economy back to life .
economic forecasters predict 6 percent shrinkage in europe 's biggest economy in 2009 . ch / ncy / afp / dpa send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german government steps in to clean up banks ' toxic assets the german government has drawn up a draft plan to clean up toxic assets from banks ' balance sheets , a key part of berlin 's bid to turn around europe 's biggest economy .
-lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- koehler blasts banks for keeping quiet over financial crisis in run up to presidential race , german president horst koehler has hit out at bankers ' greed , but is optimistic that the dark cloud of global financial crisis will have a silver lining .
-lrb- 02.05.2009 -rrb- leaked list reveals german banks have 816 billion euros in toxic assets a german newspaper has published a leaked list from the bafin financial oversight group that shows german banks are weighed down under 816 billion euros in toxic assets .
-lrb- 25.04.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic sweden 's bad bank scheme what is a bad bank ?
feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inside europe listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
travel passau is called the three river city , but it is just as famous for its baroque splendor .
passau - baroque facades and vibrant arts watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany agrees on bad bank scheme -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 30.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de banking -pipe- 13.05.2009 germany agrees on bad bank scheme großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : steinbrueck wants to reassure voters they wo n't wear the cost of the bail-out the german cabinet has agreed on a plan to clean up toxic assets from bank balance sheets .
in the run-up to the election , the issue has become highly politically charged . the scheme , which forms a key element of berlin 's bid to turn europe 's biggest economy around , would allow banks to park their toxic assets for up to 20 years , in specially created institutions .
banks would receive government backed bonds in return .
finance minister peer steinbrueck said the banks would still be held responsible for the toxic assets and , in the long run , they would bear the cost of transferring and holding the assets .
just five months out from a national election , the issue has proved politically prickly .
politicians are torn between the pressing need to revive germany 's foundering banking sector and burdening taxpayers with a huge bank bailout .
berlin hopes that once the toxic holdings have been removed from banks ' balance sheets , they will begin lending to each other and to businesses and consumers again .
that is meant to jolt the german economy back to life .
economic forecasters predict 6 percent shrinkage in europe 's biggest economy in 2009 . ch / ncy / afp / dpa send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german government steps in to clean up banks ' toxic assets the german government has drawn up a draft plan to clean up toxic assets from banks ' balance sheets , a key part of berlin 's bid to turn around europe 's biggest economy .
-lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- koehler blasts banks for keeping quiet over financial crisis in run up to presidential race , german president horst koehler has hit out at bankers ' greed , but is optimistic that the dark cloud of global financial crisis will have a silver lining .
-lrb- 02.05.2009 -rrb- leaked list reveals german banks have 816 billion euros in toxic assets a german newspaper has published a leaked list from the bafin financial oversight group that shows german banks are weighed down under 816 billion euros in toxic assets .
-lrb- 25.04.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic sweden 's bad bank scheme what is a bad bank ?
feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany agrees on bad bank scheme -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.03.2011 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de banking -pipe- 13.05.2009 germany agrees on bad bank scheme großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : steinbrueck wants to reassure voters they wo n't wear the cost of the bail-out the german cabinet has agreed on a plan to clean up toxic assets from bank balance sheets .
in the run-up to the election , the issue has become highly politically charged . the scheme , which forms a key element of berlin 's bid to turn europe 's biggest economy around , would allow banks to park their toxic assets for up to 20 years , in specially created institutions .
banks would receive government backed bonds in return .
finance minister peer steinbrueck said the banks would still be held responsible for the toxic assets and , in the long run , they would bear the cost of transferring and holding the assets .
just five months out from a national election , the issue has proved politically prickly .
politicians are torn between the pressing need to revive germany 's foundering banking sector and burdening taxpayers with a huge bank bailout .
berlin hopes that once the toxic holdings have been removed from banks ' balance sheets , they will begin lending to each other and to businesses and consumers again .
that is meant to jolt the german economy back to life .
economic forecasters predict 6 percent shrinkage in europe 's biggest economy in 2009 . ch / ncy / afp / dpa send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german government steps in to clean up banks ' toxic assets the german government has drawn up a draft plan to clean up toxic assets from banks ' balance sheets , a key part of berlin 's bid to turn around europe 's biggest economy .
-lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- koehler blasts banks for keeping quiet over financial crisis in run up to presidential race , german president horst koehler has hit out at bankers ' greed , but is optimistic that the dark cloud of global financial crisis will have a silver lining .
-lrb- 02.05.2009 -rrb- leaked list reveals german banks have 816 billion euros in toxic assets a german newspaper has published a leaked list from the bafin financial oversight group that shows german banks are weighed down under 816 billion euros in toxic assets .
-lrb- 25.04.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic sweden 's bad bank scheme what is a bad bank ?
feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live popxport we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany agrees on bad bank scheme -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 28.10.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de banking -pipe- 13.05.2009 germany agrees on bad bank scheme großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : steinbrueck wants to reassure voters they wo n't wear the cost of the bail-out the german cabinet has agreed on a plan to clean up toxic assets from bank balance sheets .
in the run-up to the election , the issue has become highly politically charged . the scheme , which forms a key element of berlin 's bid to turn europe 's biggest economy around , would allow banks to park their toxic assets for up to 20 years , in specially created institutions .
banks would receive government backed bonds in return .
finance minister peer steinbrueck said the banks would still be held responsible for the toxic assets and , in the long run , they would bear the cost of transferring and holding the assets .
just five months out from a national election , the issue has proved politically prickly .
politicians are torn between the pressing need to revive germany 's foundering banking sector and burdening taxpayers with a huge bank bailout .
berlin hopes that once the toxic holdings have been removed from banks ' balance sheets , they will begin lending to each other and to businesses and consumers again .
that is meant to jolt the german economy back to life .
economic forecasters predict 6 percent shrinkage in europe 's biggest economy in 2009 . ch / ncy / afp / dpa send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german government steps in to clean up banks ' toxic assets the german government has drawn up a draft plan to clean up toxic assets from banks ' balance sheets , a key part of berlin 's bid to turn around europe 's biggest economy .
-lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- koehler blasts banks for keeping quiet over financial crisis in run up to presidential race , german president horst koehler has hit out at bankers ' greed , but is optimistic that the dark cloud of global financial crisis will have a silver lining .
-lrb- 02.05.2009 -rrb- leaked list reveals german banks have 816 billion euros in toxic assets a german newspaper has published a leaked list from the bafin financial oversight group that shows german banks are weighed down under 816 billion euros in toxic assets .
-lrb- 25.04.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic sweden 's bad bank scheme what is a bad bank ?
feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
cannes rolls out the world 's most famous red carpet once again -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 22.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de film -pipe- 13.05.2009 cannes rolls out the world 's most famous red carpet once again großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : in a cannes first , an animated film opened the festival each may , a festival held on the french riviera draws a collection of the world 's leading cinema minds from all corners of the globe : the cannes film festival .
this year 's edition kicked off on wednesday . the 62nd gathering of cinema 's elite in the resort town of cannes , which sits on france 's mediterranean coast , remains one of the world 's most esteemed and prestigious film festivals .
to win the coveted palme d 'or prize for best film at cannes could be described as a crowning achievement for any producer , director , actor or film studio involved in the production .
unlike other well-known film festivals , such as those in berlin and venice , the focus at cannes is usually on aesthetics : beautiful cinema .
though this year 's 20 entries take on more brutal tones .
this includes american quentin tarantino 's ultra-violent " inglourious basterds , " about a group of bloodthirsty nazi hunters , and korean park chan wook 's priest-turned-vampire flick " bak-jwi " -lrb- " thirst " -rrb- , which has already been racing up the movie charts in his home country .
maverick danish director lars von trier also raises the horror notch this year with his " antichrist , " in which willem dafoe and charlotte gainsbourg find themselves confronting their inner fears and some dark forces in a deserted cabin in the woods .
bildunterschrift : german director wim wenders ' film " paris , texas " is a past winner at cannes german co-production this year also sees a motion picture from germany-born director michael haneke , who directed the 2001 palme d 'or-winning film " the piano teacher . "
his latest cannes entry , " das weisse band " -lrb- " the white ribbon " -rrb- , is set in a village in protestant northern germany in 1913 .
haneke 's tale recreates a country on the eve of world war i , told through the lives of members of a youth choir run by the village school teacher and their families .
little more has been written about the film , the result of haneke 's strict policy of silence in the lead up to his films ' openings .
the film was a joint production between studios in germany , france , austria and italy .
if " the white ribbon " finds success at cannes this year , it would not be the first german co-production to make a name for itself at the festival .
in 1979 , volker schloendorff 's screen adaptation of " die blechtrommel " -lrb- " the tin drum " -rrb- took the top prize , as did wim wenders ' 1984 film " paris , texas . "
new and old faces bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : de niro will always be remembered for his leading role in " taxi driver " these films went on to become part of cinematic history , as do most palme d 'or winners .
this venerated list includes francis ford coppola 's " apocalypse now , " bunuel 's " viridiana , " visconti 's " the leopard " and scorsese 's " taxi driver . "
this year , all eyes will be on 3-d comedy " up " from us director pete docter , which is the first animated film to open the 12-day festival .
the story features an old man who ties balloons to his house in the hope of fulfilling a boyhood dream of flying to south america .
meanwhile , a man bent on avenging the death of his daughter in hong kong director jonnie to 's " vengeance " is also screening , and seven years after shaking up a storm in cannes with his story of rape in " irreversible , " france 's gaspar noe is back at the festival with " enter the void " about a brutal murder .
belt tightening bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the glitterati wo n't be stopped by the financial crisis with the economic crisis having cut a swathe through the world film industry over the last year , filmmakers from hollywood through to bollywood have faced cost-cutting , studio layoffs and an ever more cautious army of producers and movie financiers .
already signs have emerged that the motion picture business has scaled back plans for the lavish parties and extravagant promotional events that have always been a feature of the festival .
but all bets are that whatever the economic climate , this year 's gathering is still likely to celebrate movie-making and the cult of the celebrity with considerable style and flair . dfm / pfd / dpa / afp / reuters send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de germany 's film industry celebrates banner year in 2008 german productions contributed decisively to a banner year in the nation 's film industry in 2008 , continuing last year 's upbeat trend .
-lrb- 05.02.2009 -rrb- lights , camera , action for kosslick as berlinale approaches armed with a mischievous smile and twinkling eyes , dieter kosslick revels in his role as the director of the berlinale , which kicks off this year with a film about the illegal machinations of an international bank .
-lrb- 03.02.2009 -rrb- german love triangle squares off at venice film festival " jerichow , " a love triangle by german director christian petzold , screened at the venice film festival , the first german entry competing for the golden lion since 2004 .
it faces strong competition from the us and italy .
-lrb- 29.08.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live picture gallery fat and felt nearly 25 years after his death , joseph beuys is remembered for his broad view of art .
travel explore some of germany 's most spectacular historic castles .
marksburg albrechtsburg castle hohenzollern castle dw-tv : euromaxx podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's new free podcast .
clip no. 1 - luis und laserpower clip no. 2 - abel & cain clip no. 3 - baby benzin clip no. 4 - the intersphere subscribe on itunes get the rss feed word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
hits in germany concert hour music this week arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
sobibor survivor : demjanjuk trial will go down in history -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de world war ii -pipe- 13.05.2009 sobibor survivor : demjanjuk trial will go down in history großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some 250,000 jews , gypsies and political prisoners were murdered in sobibor 's gas chambers deutsche welle spoke with thomas blatt , one of few to escape from the nazi-run sobibor extermination camp .
he says he does n't care whether john demjanjuk is jailed for working at the camp , just that he tells the truth . thomas blatt was one of the few to survive the sobibor extermination camp in nazi-occupied poland during world war ii .
the 82-year-old is now a key witness in the munich trial of john demjanjuk , who is alleged to have been a guard at sobibor .
deutsche welle : why did you decide to come to germany for this trial ?
thomas blatt : because when i escaped from sobibor , i promised myself that if i survived , i will do everything to tell the story of sobibor .
and that 's what i 'm doing .
and i know that demjanjuk knows a lot , because demjanjuk was in the middle of the holocaust .
and he denies that it is him , that he was not a guard at sobibor , but he was .
i do n't care if demjanjuk is in jail or not .
i do care that he should tell the truth .
and the truth is , that he was a guard at sobibor .
sobibor was not a simple concentration camp .
sobibor was an extermination camp .
at sobibor the guards were simple murderers .
in a concentration camp a guard was a guard , … responsible -lsb- for preventing -rsb- people from running away .
but at sobibor they were simple murderers .
you said that among the guards at sobibor some were sadistic .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : demjanjuk 's wartime identification card is a major piece of evidence against him i said that they were sadistic and that some guards escaped from sobibor .
but demjanjuk did not escape .
he was there all the time with the nazis .
i do n't say that i -lsb- saw -rsb- him for sure .
-lsb- the guards -rsb- were very sadistic .
and we were more afraid of the guards than we were of the germans .
i 'm sure i know that he was a guard .
it is my duty to tell .
he should tell what sobibor was for .
what will be your reaction if there is not enough evidence to find mr. demjanjuk guilty ?
i believe that he will tell the truth , the way it was in sobibor .
and this will be part of history .
this will be -lsb- something -rsb- for the new generation to learn .
because what he has seen , few people have seen .
i strongly believe he will tell the truth .
and later demjanjuk could go free .
for me his testimony is very important , and that 's why i am in munich following demjanjuk 's story .
i am sorry in a way for demjanjuk .
he 's an old man , 89 years old .
he 's sick , he has a family .
so i 'm sorry in a way .
and i think that many people think the same way : he 's an old man , he 's suffered so much .
but i also see the other side of demjanjuk .
i see him as a terrible sadist , a murderer .
he did n't run away from his work .
interview : michael lawton editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de suspected nazi prison camp guard deported to germany the us has deported an alleged former nazi prison camp guard to germany .
jewish leaders hailed john demjanjuk 's deportation , saying they hoped it was n't too late for the 89-year-old to be brought to justice .
-lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- opinion : no statute of limitations on horrors of the holocaust after decades of judicial wrangling , the alleged nazi criminal john demjanjuk is to stand trial in germany .
on tuesday he was flown to munich and brought to a prison awaiting trial .
cornelia rabitz has this commentary : -lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- us seeks to clear path for demjanjuk deportation , again the us government has sought to clear the way to deport alleged former death camp guard john demjanjuk , just days after a us court postponed his deportation to wait for proof that he is fit to travel to germany .
-lrb- 21.04.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic michael lawton talks to raphael gross of the fritz bauer institute for holocaust studies about john demjanjuk nazi war crimes suspect john demjanjuk deported to germany -lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- 9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
wto ruling the world trade organization rules that china 's export restrictions on raw materials are illegal .
watch the video in depth focus on libya dw-world looks at the turmoil in libya : what it means for tripoli and the rest of the world .
international conference media representatives around the world gather in bonn to discuss human rights .
podcast series by teaching stand-up comedy , bryan encourages his students to discover their talents .
download the report subscribe to the series on itunes past episodes learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
wolfsburg , bayern and hertha win matches -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 25.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de bundesliga -pipe- 13.05.2009 wolfsburg , bayern and hertha win matches großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : wolfsburg 's grafite celebrates bundesliga leaders vfl wolfsburg and their two main challengers bayern munich and hertha berlin showed the way on tuesday as they won their midweek league matches . hertha berlin secured a 2-1 victory at cologne .
wolfsburg beat borussia dortmund 3-0 , and bayern munich scored three times in the second half en route to a 3-0 victory over bayer leverkusen .
wolfsburg and bayern are now at the top of the table with 63 points and two games remaining , with wolfsburg just two goals better than their rivals from southern germany .
hertha berlin are a point behind the two , while vfb stuttgart could move to 61 points if they win at schalke 04 on wednesday .
the other game on tuesday saw bottom club karlsruhe sc all but relegated after giving away a 2-0 lead against hanover 96 before finally losing 3-2 .
wolfsburg striking duo grafite and edin dzeko again provided the goals that kept the northern german side at the top .
dzeko opened the scoring in the 14th minute with his 21st goal of the season , before the brazilian grafite added a second goal two minutes after the restart .
dzeko scored his second goal six minutes from the end after being set up by grafite , who heads the goal scorer standings with 24 goals .
dortmund ended the game with ten men after kevin-prince boateng was sent off in the 75th minute - just eight minutes after coming on as a substitute .
wolfsburg coach felix magath said that his side wanted to do well after losing their last game at vfb stuttgart 4-1 , adding , " we went in search of goals from the word go . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : dortmund 's head coach juergen klopp klopp believes dortmund coach juergen klopp said , “ we have the quality and at the end of the day , that will come through . "
he noted that wolfsburg played very well and said , " they deserved to win .
they are a strong side and we certainly do not think that we lost badly .
at the end of the day , the number of goals scored against us , does not matter really . "
bayern wins again in munich , the visitors were denied two penalties in the first half , but could do nothing as luca toni , franck ribery and lukas podolski scored the goals that kept bayern in the hunt for a 22nd german championship .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : jupp heynckes bayern has now won the last three games under new coach jupp heynckes , who took over when juergen klinsmann was sacked .
he changed the team on a few positions and gave germany striker podolski , who spent most of the time on the bench under klinsmann , a starting place .
podolski , who scored one goal and set up the others , saying , " we did well as a team and trained well .
i think you can see that on the field .
the new coach gave me the trust and played me from the beginning and i tried to repay him on the field . "
bayern manager uli hoeness said that his side could have won by a higher score .
" we decided not to tell the players what the other scores were and i still do not think that the championship will be decided on goal difference .
one team will still slip up . "
cicero gave berlin the lead in cologne three minutes from the break , before patrick ebert added a second midway through the second half with a shot that took a wicked deflection .
adil chihi pulled one back for cologne late in the game with his first-ever bundesliga goal .
karlsruhe looked on course for an important victory against hanover after alexander lashvili and lars stindl gave the home side a 2-0 lead after just 32 minutes .
however , sergio pinto and mikael forssell equalized matters before the break and hanno balitsch found a winner for hanover at the end of 64 minutes .
karlsruhe are last in the table with just 23 points and could be relegated on wednesday if three of the four teams directly above them win . av / ai / dpa / ap send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de wolfsburg on course for first-ever bundesliga title wolfsburg remain on target thrashing hoffenheim 4-0 as bayern win their first match in post-klinsmann era with four matches to play this season .
-lrb- 02.05.2009 -rrb- bremen ends hamburg hopes for bundesliga title bremen once again outclassed hamburg when they beat their northern german rivals 2-0 in a bundesliga match on sunday , all but killing off the side 's hopes for a league title .
-lrb- 10.05.2009 -rrb- gomez scores four as stuttgart thrashes wolfsburg mario gomez scored all four goals to take vfb stuttgart to a stunning 4-1 victory over bundesliga leaders vfl wolfsburg on saturday .
defending champions bayern munich won 3-1 against energie cottbus .
-lrb- 09.05.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live hits in germany hits in germany at eurosonic 2011 listen live dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results at a glance .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia moenchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
sobibor survivor : demjanjuk trial will go down in history -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 25.01.2011 home news germany europe world from tierra del fuego to tijuana asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de world war ii -pipe- 13.05.2009 sobibor survivor : demjanjuk trial will go down in history großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some 250,000 jews , gypsies and political prisoners were murdered in sobibor 's gas chambers deutsche welle spoke with thomas blatt , one of few to escape from the nazi-run sobibor extermination camp .
he says he does n't care whether john demjanjuk is jailed for working at the camp , just that he tells the truth . thomas blatt was one of the few to survive the sobibor extermination camp in nazi-occupied poland during world war ii .
the 82-year-old is now a key witness in the munich trial of john demjanjuk , who is alleged to have been a guard at sobibor .
deutsche welle : why did you decide to come to germany for this trial ?
thomas blatt : because when i escaped from sobibor , i promised myself that if i survived , i will do everything to tell the story of sobibor .
and that 's what i 'm doing .
and i know that demjanjuk knows a lot , because demjanjuk was in the middle of the holocaust .
and he denies that it is him , that he was not a guard at sobibor , but he was .
i do n't care if demjanjuk is in jail or not .
i do care that he should tell the truth .
and the truth is , that he was a guard at sobibor .
sobibor was not a simple concentration camp .
sobibor was an extermination camp .
at sobibor the guards were simple murderers .
in a concentration camp a guard was a guard , … responsible -lsb- for preventing -rsb- people from running away .
but at sobibor they were simple murderers .
you said that among the guards at sobibor some were sadistic .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : demjanjuk 's wartime identification card is a major piece of evidence against him i said that they were sadistic and that some guards escaped from sobibor .
but demjanjuk did not escape .
he was there all the time with the nazis .
i do n't say that i -lsb- saw -rsb- him for sure .
-lsb- the guards -rsb- were very sadistic .
and we were more afraid of the guards than we were of the germans .
i 'm sure i know that he was a guard .
it is my duty to tell .
he should tell what sobibor was for .
what will be your reaction if there is not enough evidence to find mr. demjanjuk guilty ?
i believe that he will tell the truth , the way it was in sobibor .
and this will be part of history .
this will be -lsb- something -rsb- for the new generation to learn .
because what he has seen , few people have seen .
i strongly believe he will tell the truth .
and later demjanjuk could go free .
for me his testimony is very important , and that 's why i am in munich following demjanjuk 's story .
i am sorry in a way for demjanjuk .
he 's an old man , 89 years old .
he 's sick , he has a family .
so i 'm sorry in a way .
and i think that many people think the same way : he 's an old man , he 's suffered so much .
but i also see the other side of demjanjuk .
i see him as a terrible sadist , a murderer .
he did n't run away from his work .
interview : michael lawton editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de suspected nazi prison camp guard deported to germany the us has deported an alleged former nazi prison camp guard to germany .
jewish leaders hailed john demjanjuk 's deportation , saying they hoped it was n't too late for the 89-year-old to be brought to justice .
-lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- opinion : no statute of limitations on horrors of the holocaust after decades of judicial wrangling , the alleged nazi criminal john demjanjuk is to stand trial in germany .
on tuesday he was flown to munich and brought to a prison awaiting trial .
cornelia rabitz has this commentary : -lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- us seeks to clear path for demjanjuk deportation , again the us government has sought to clear the way to deport alleged former death camp guard john demjanjuk , just days after a us court postponed his deportation to wait for proof that he is fit to travel to germany .
-lrb- 21.04.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic michael lawton talks to raphael gross of the fritz bauer institute for holocaust studies about john demjanjuk nazi war crimes suspect john demjanjuk deported to germany -lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan latin america take a multimedia journey discover the region and its people news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's newest media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
sobibor survivor : demjanjuk trial will go down in history -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 29.09.2010 home news germany europe world from tierra del fuego to tijuana asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de world war ii -pipe- 13.05.2009 sobibor survivor : demjanjuk trial will go down in history großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some 250,000 jews , gypsies and political prisoners were murdered in sobibor 's gas chambers deutsche welle spoke with thomas blatt , one of few to escape from the nazi-run sobibor extermination camp .
he says he does n't care whether john demjanjuk is jailed for working at the camp , just that he tells the truth . thomas blatt was one of the few to survive the sobibor extermination camp in nazi-occupied poland during world war ii .
the 82-year-old is now a key witness in the munich trial of john demjanjuk , who is alleged to have been a guard at sobibor .
deutsche welle : why did you decide to come to germany for this trial ?
thomas blatt : because when i escaped from sobibor , i promised myself that if i survived , i will do everything to tell the story of sobibor .
and that 's what i 'm doing .
and i know that demjanjuk knows a lot , because demjanjuk was in the middle of the holocaust .
and he denies that it is him , that he was not a guard at sobibor , but he was .
i do n't care if demjanjuk is in jail or not .
i do care that he should tell the truth .
and the truth is , that he was a guard at sobibor .
sobibor was not a simple concentration camp .
sobibor was an extermination camp .
at sobibor the guards were simple murderers .
in a concentration camp a guard was a guard , … responsible -lsb- for preventing -rsb- people from running away .
but at sobibor they were simple murderers .
you said that among the guards at sobibor some were sadistic .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : demjanjuk 's wartime identification card is a major piece of evidence against him i said that they were sadistic and that some guards escaped from sobibor .
but demjanjuk did not escape .
he was there all the time with the nazis .
i do n't say that i -lsb- saw -rsb- him for sure .
-lsb- the guards -rsb- were very sadistic .
and we were more afraid of the guards than we were of the germans .
i 'm sure i know that he was a guard .
it is my duty to tell .
he should tell what sobibor was for .
what will be your reaction if there is not enough evidence to find mr. demjanjuk guilty ?
i believe that he will tell the truth , the way it was in sobibor .
and this will be part of history .
this will be -lsb- something -rsb- for the new generation to learn .
because what he has seen , few people have seen .
i strongly believe he will tell the truth .
and later demjanjuk could go free .
for me his testimony is very important , and that 's why i am in munich following demjanjuk 's story .
i am sorry in a way for demjanjuk .
he 's an old man , 89 years old .
he 's sick , he has a family .
so i 'm sorry in a way .
and i think that many people think the same way : he 's an old man , he 's suffered so much .
but i also see the other side of demjanjuk .
i see him as a terrible sadist , a murderer .
he did n't run away from his work .
interview : michael lawton editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de suspected nazi prison camp guard deported to germany the us has deported an alleged former nazi prison camp guard to germany .
jewish leaders hailed john demjanjuk 's deportation , saying they hoped it was n't too late for the 89-year-old to be brought to justice .
-lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- opinion : no statute of limitations on horrors of the holocaust after decades of judicial wrangling , the alleged nazi criminal john demjanjuk is to stand trial in germany .
on tuesday he was flown to munich and brought to a prison awaiting trial .
cornelia rabitz has this commentary : -lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- us seeks to clear path for demjanjuk deportation , again the us government has sought to clear the way to deport alleged former death camp guard john demjanjuk , just days after a us court postponed his deportation to wait for proof that he is fit to travel to germany .
-lrb- 21.04.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic michael lawton talks to raphael gross of the fritz bauer institute for holocaust studies about john demjanjuk nazi war crimes suspect john demjanjuk deported to germany -lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live in focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live spectrum listen live international relations world bank president robert zoellick talks about the challenges of a multi-lateral world .
watch the interview learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan new web site check out deutsche welle 's new asia page in english .
dw asia online news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's newest media partner latin america take a multimedia journey discover the region and its people © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
sobibor survivor : demjanjuk trial will go down in history -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 22.12.2010 home news germany europe world from tierra del fuego to tijuana asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de world war ii -pipe- 13.05.2009 sobibor survivor : demjanjuk trial will go down in history großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some 250,000 jews , gypsies and political prisoners were murdered in sobibor 's gas chambers deutsche welle spoke with thomas blatt , one of few to escape from the nazi-run sobibor extermination camp .
he says he does n't care whether john demjanjuk is jailed for working at the camp , just that he tells the truth . thomas blatt was one of the few to survive the sobibor extermination camp in nazi-occupied poland during world war ii .
the 82-year-old is now a key witness in the munich trial of john demjanjuk , who is alleged to have been a guard at sobibor .
deutsche welle : why did you decide to come to germany for this trial ?
thomas blatt : because when i escaped from sobibor , i promised myself that if i survived , i will do everything to tell the story of sobibor .
and that 's what i 'm doing .
and i know that demjanjuk knows a lot , because demjanjuk was in the middle of the holocaust .
and he denies that it is him , that he was not a guard at sobibor , but he was .
i do n't care if demjanjuk is in jail or not .
i do care that he should tell the truth .
and the truth is , that he was a guard at sobibor .
sobibor was not a simple concentration camp .
sobibor was an extermination camp .
at sobibor the guards were simple murderers .
in a concentration camp a guard was a guard , … responsible -lsb- for preventing -rsb- people from running away .
but at sobibor they were simple murderers .
you said that among the guards at sobibor some were sadistic .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : demjanjuk 's wartime identification card is a major piece of evidence against him i said that they were sadistic and that some guards escaped from sobibor .
but demjanjuk did not escape .
he was there all the time with the nazis .
i do n't say that i -lsb- saw -rsb- him for sure .
-lsb- the guards -rsb- were very sadistic .
and we were more afraid of the guards than we were of the germans .
i 'm sure i know that he was a guard .
it is my duty to tell .
he should tell what sobibor was for .
what will be your reaction if there is not enough evidence to find mr. demjanjuk guilty ?
i believe that he will tell the truth , the way it was in sobibor .
and this will be part of history .
this will be -lsb- something -rsb- for the new generation to learn .
because what he has seen , few people have seen .
i strongly believe he will tell the truth .
and later demjanjuk could go free .
for me his testimony is very important , and that 's why i am in munich following demjanjuk 's story .
i am sorry in a way for demjanjuk .
he 's an old man , 89 years old .
he 's sick , he has a family .
so i 'm sorry in a way .
and i think that many people think the same way : he 's an old man , he 's suffered so much .
but i also see the other side of demjanjuk .
i see him as a terrible sadist , a murderer .
he did n't run away from his work .
interview : michael lawton editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de suspected nazi prison camp guard deported to germany the us has deported an alleged former nazi prison camp guard to germany .
jewish leaders hailed john demjanjuk 's deportation , saying they hoped it was n't too late for the 89-year-old to be brought to justice .
-lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- opinion : no statute of limitations on horrors of the holocaust after decades of judicial wrangling , the alleged nazi criminal john demjanjuk is to stand trial in germany .
on tuesday he was flown to munich and brought to a prison awaiting trial .
cornelia rabitz has this commentary : -lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- us seeks to clear path for demjanjuk deportation , again the us government has sought to clear the way to deport alleged former death camp guard john demjanjuk , just days after a us court postponed his deportation to wait for proof that he is fit to travel to germany .
-lrb- 21.04.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic michael lawton talks to raphael gross of the fritz bauer institute for holocaust studies about john demjanjuk nazi war crimes suspect john demjanjuk deported to germany -lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
set to start christmas is coming early for us president obama with the senate set to back the new start treaty .
watch the video the road ahead the nato exit strategy aims to hand security to afghan forces , however that is a long way off .
watch the video focus wikileaks read our dw-world focus on the latest wikileaks revelations and their impact around the globe .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan new web site check out deutsche welle 's new asia page in english .
dw asia online latin america take a multimedia journey discover the region and its people news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's newest media partner © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany agrees on bad bank scheme -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 21.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de banking -pipe- 13.05.2009 germany agrees on bad bank scheme großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : steinbrueck wants to reassure voters they wo n't wear the cost of the bail-out the german cabinet has agreed on a plan to clean up toxic assets from bank balance sheets .
in the run-up to the election , the issue has become highly politically charged . the scheme , which forms a key element of berlin 's bid to turn europe 's biggest economy around , would allow banks to park their toxic assets for up to 20 years , in specially created institutions .
banks would receive government backed bonds in return .
finance minister peer steinbrueck said the banks would still be held responsible for the toxic assets and , in the long run , they would bear the cost of transferring and holding the assets .
just five months out from a national election , the issue has proved politically prickly .
politicians are torn between the pressing need to revive germany 's foundering banking sector and burdening taxpayers with a huge bank bailout .
berlin hopes that once the toxic holdings have been removed from banks ' balance sheets , they will begin lending to each other and to businesses and consumers again .
that is meant to jolt the german economy back to life .
economic forecasters predict 6 percent shrinkage in europe 's biggest economy in 2009 . ch / ncy / afp / dpa send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german government steps in to clean up banks ' toxic assets the german government has drawn up a draft plan to clean up toxic assets from banks ' balance sheets , a key part of berlin 's bid to turn around europe 's biggest economy .
-lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- koehler blasts banks for keeping quiet over financial crisis in run up to presidential race , german president horst koehler has hit out at bankers ' greed , but is optimistic that the dark cloud of global financial crisis will have a silver lining .
-lrb- 02.05.2009 -rrb- leaked list reveals german banks have 816 billion euros in toxic assets a german newspaper has published a leaked list from the bafin financial oversight group that shows german banks are weighed down under 816 billion euros in toxic assets .
-lrb- 25.04.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic sweden 's bad bank scheme what is a bad bank ? 9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inside europe listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
culture west german photographer thomas hoepker documented life abroad - in east germany - in the 1970s .
watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany agrees on bad bank scheme -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 26.09.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de banking -pipe- 13.05.2009 germany agrees on bad bank scheme großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : steinbrueck wants to reassure voters they wo n't wear the cost of the bail-out the german cabinet has agreed on a plan to clean up toxic assets from bank balance sheets .
in the run-up to the election , the issue has become highly politically charged . the scheme , which forms a key element of berlin 's bid to turn europe 's biggest economy around , would allow banks to park their toxic assets for up to 20 years , in specially created institutions .
banks would receive government backed bonds in return .
finance minister peer steinbrueck said the banks would still be held responsible for the toxic assets and , in the long run , they would bear the cost of transferring and holding the assets .
just five months out from a national election , the issue has proved politically prickly .
politicians are torn between the pressing need to revive germany 's foundering banking sector and burdening taxpayers with a huge bank bailout .
berlin hopes that once the toxic holdings have been removed from banks ' balance sheets , they will begin lending to each other and to businesses and consumers again .
that is meant to jolt the german economy back to life .
economic forecasters predict 6 percent shrinkage in europe 's biggest economy in 2009 . ch / ncy / afp / dpa send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german government steps in to clean up banks ' toxic assets the german government has drawn up a draft plan to clean up toxic assets from banks ' balance sheets , a key part of berlin 's bid to turn around europe 's biggest economy .
-lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- koehler blasts banks for keeping quiet over financial crisis in run up to presidential race , german president horst koehler has hit out at bankers ' greed , but is optimistic that the dark cloud of global financial crisis will have a silver lining .
-lrb- 02.05.2009 -rrb- leaked list reveals german banks have 816 billion euros in toxic assets a german newspaper has published a leaked list from the bafin financial oversight group that shows german banks are weighed down under 816 billion euros in toxic assets .
-lrb- 25.04.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic sweden 's bad bank scheme what is a bad bank ?
feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live sports report listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
wolfsburg , bayern and hertha win matches -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 19.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de bundesliga -pipe- 13.05.2009 wolfsburg , bayern and hertha win matches großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : wolfsburg 's grafite celebrates bundesliga leaders vfl wolfsburg and their two main challengers bayern munich and hertha berlin showed the way on tuesday as they won their midweek league matches . hertha berlin secured a 2-1 victory at cologne .
wolfsburg beat borussia dortmund 3-0 , and bayern munich scored three times in the second half en route to a 3-0 victory over bayer leverkusen .
wolfsburg and bayern are now at the top of the table with 63 points and two games remaining , with wolfsburg just two goals better than their rivals from southern germany .
hertha berlin are a point behind the two , while vfb stuttgart could move to 61 points if they win at schalke 04 on wednesday .
the other game on tuesday saw bottom club karlsruhe sc all but relegated after giving away a 2-0 lead against hanover 96 before finally losing 3-2 .
wolfsburg striking duo grafite and edin dzeko again provided the goals that kept the northern german side at the top .
dzeko opened the scoring in the 14th minute with his 21st goal of the season , before the brazilian grafite added a second goal two minutes after the restart .
dzeko scored his second goal six minutes from the end after being set up by grafite , who heads the goal scorer standings with 24 goals .
dortmund ended the game with ten men after kevin-prince boateng was sent off in the 75th minute - just eight minutes after coming on as a substitute .
wolfsburg coach felix magath said that his side wanted to do well after losing their last game at vfb stuttgart 4-1 , adding , " we went in search of goals from the word go . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : dortmund 's head coach juergen klopp klopp believes dortmund coach juergen klopp said , “ we have the quality and at the end of the day , that will come through . "
he noted that wolfsburg played very well and said , " they deserved to win .
they are a strong side and we certainly do not think that we lost badly .
at the end of the day , the number of goals scored against us , does not matter really . "
bayern wins again in munich , the visitors were denied two penalties in the first half , but could do nothing as luca toni , franck ribery and lukas podolski scored the goals that kept bayern in the hunt for a 22nd german championship .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : jupp heynckes bayern has now won the last three games under new coach jupp heynckes , who took over when juergen klinsmann was sacked .
he changed the team on a few positions and gave germany striker podolski , who spent most of the time on the bench under klinsmann , a starting place .
podolski , who scored one goal and set up the others , saying , " we did well as a team and trained well .
i think you can see that on the field .
the new coach gave me the trust and played me from the beginning and i tried to repay him on the field . "
bayern manager uli hoeness said that his side could have won by a higher score .
" we decided not to tell the players what the other scores were and i still do not think that the championship will be decided on goal difference .
one team will still slip up . "
cicero gave berlin the lead in cologne three minutes from the break , before patrick ebert added a second midway through the second half with a shot that took a wicked deflection .
adil chihi pulled one back for cologne late in the game with his first-ever bundesliga goal .
karlsruhe looked on course for an important victory against hanover after alexander lashvili and lars stindl gave the home side a 2-0 lead after just 32 minutes .
however , sergio pinto and mikael forssell equalized matters before the break and hanno balitsch found a winner for hanover at the end of 64 minutes .
karlsruhe are last in the table with just 23 points and could be relegated on wednesday if three of the four teams directly above them win . av / ai / dpa / ap send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de wolfsburg on course for first-ever bundesliga title wolfsburg remain on target thrashing hoffenheim 4-0 as bayern win their first match in post-klinsmann era with four matches to play this season .
-lrb- 02.05.2009 -rrb- bremen ends hamburg hopes for bundesliga title bremen once again outclassed hamburg when they beat their northern german rivals 2-0 in a bundesliga match on sunday , all but killing off the side 's hopes for a league title .
-lrb- 10.05.2009 -rrb- gomez scores four as stuttgart thrashes wolfsburg mario gomez scored all four goals to take vfb stuttgart to a stunning 4-1 victory over bundesliga leaders vfl wolfsburg on saturday .
defending champions bayern munich won 3-1 against energie cottbus .
-lrb- 09.05.2009 -rrb- 9801 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio listen to the latest from german soccer on dw-radio .
sports report scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results .
dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
french lawmakers to pull the plug on internet pirates -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 20.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de internet -pipe- 13.05.2009 french lawmakers to pull the plug on internet pirates großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : sarkozy championed the new legislation france has passed a bill that will let authorities track illegal downloading over the internet and disconnect repeat offenders .
opponents are critical of the law , arguing that access to the web is a fundamental right . the french senate on wednesday overwhelmingly voted into law a controversial measure that will cut off internet access to people who repeatedly download copyrighted music , films or video games without paying .
the vote , which had already passed the lower house by a narrow margin on tuesday , represents a success for president nicolas sarkozy , who championed the groundbreaking law .
the opposition socialists alienated many of their traditional supporters in the arts world by fighting the move .
the legislation aims to protect the revenues of record and film companies and recording artists .
after two warnings pirates will be cut off the tough new laws would punish music download pirates by shutting off their internet access for up to a year .
under the terms of the bill , internet pirates will receive two warnings , but their internet connection will be cut after the third offence .
during the time they are disconnected , they will have to continue paying their internet provider .
the music and film industries in france and abroad have shown wide support for the bill , but consumer groups and the socialist opposition have warned it would be difficult to implement .
opponents have criticized the penalties , and say access to the internet should be a fundamental right .
consumer groups said they feared intrusive monitoring of online activity and warn that innocent users may be unfairly punished if hackers use their accounts to download files .
the new law 's introduction onto the statute books is likely to be delayed by at least a month .
opponents have promised to challenge the legislation in france 's top court . ch / ncy / afp / reuters send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de major german online companies agree to block child porn websites german internet providers have grudgingly agreed to block websites containing child pornography .
critics say their deal with the government wo n't make much of a difference .
-lrb- 17.04.2009 -rrb- german artists defend copyright in google era google might reign as the unchallenged king of german search engines , but a lawsuit over the company 's popular image search feature brings into question the rights of german artists in the internet age .
-lrb- 21.10.2008 -rrb- new data law could benefit music pirates germany 's music industry fears that a new telephone data law could become a carte blanche for internet users , who download tunes illegally .
until now , they 've traced music pirates with the help of phone records .
-lrb- 30.03.2008 -rrb- 9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
european ties the queen 's visit has proved to be a landmark in relations between the uk and ireland .
watch the video russia a moscow court postpones an appeal hearing in the case of former oil tycoon mikhail khodorkovsky .
listen to the audio health uk practioners are taking the eu to court over a ban on chinese herbal medicines .
listen to the audio postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
french burqa ban fits secular ideals is berlusconi giving italy a bad name ?
a dubious record for belgium inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
wolfsburg , bayern and hertha win matches -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de bundesliga -pipe- 13.05.2009 wolfsburg , bayern and hertha win matches großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : wolfsburg 's grafite celebrates bundesliga leaders vfl wolfsburg and their two main challengers bayern munich and hertha berlin showed the way on tuesday as they won their midweek league matches . hertha berlin secured a 2-1 victory at cologne .
wolfsburg beat borussia dortmund 3-0 , and bayern munich scored three times in the second half en route to a 3-0 victory over bayer leverkusen .
wolfsburg and bayern are now at the top of the table with 63 points and two games remaining , with wolfsburg just two goals better than their rivals from southern germany .
hertha berlin are a point behind the two , while vfb stuttgart could move to 61 points if they win at schalke 04 on wednesday .
the other game on tuesday saw bottom club karlsruhe sc all but relegated after giving away a 2-0 lead against hanover 96 before finally losing 3-2 .
wolfsburg striking duo grafite and edin dzeko again provided the goals that kept the northern german side at the top .
dzeko opened the scoring in the 14th minute with his 21st goal of the season , before the brazilian grafite added a second goal two minutes after the restart .
dzeko scored his second goal six minutes from the end after being set up by grafite , who heads the goal scorer standings with 24 goals .
dortmund ended the game with ten men after kevin-prince boateng was sent off in the 75th minute - just eight minutes after coming on as a substitute .
wolfsburg coach felix magath said that his side wanted to do well after losing their last game at vfb stuttgart 4-1 , adding , " we went in search of goals from the word go . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : dortmund 's head coach juergen klopp klopp believes dortmund coach juergen klopp said , “ we have the quality and at the end of the day , that will come through . "
he noted that wolfsburg played very well and said , " they deserved to win .
they are a strong side and we certainly do not think that we lost badly .
at the end of the day , the number of goals scored against us , does not matter really . "
bayern wins again in munich , the visitors were denied two penalties in the first half , but could do nothing as luca toni , franck ribery and lukas podolski scored the goals that kept bayern in the hunt for a 22nd german championship .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : jupp heynckes bayern has now won the last three games under new coach jupp heynckes , who took over when juergen klinsmann was sacked .
he changed the team on a few positions and gave germany striker podolski , who spent most of the time on the bench under klinsmann , a starting place .
podolski , who scored one goal and set up the others , saying , " we did well as a team and trained well .
i think you can see that on the field .
the new coach gave me the trust and played me from the beginning and i tried to repay him on the field . "
bayern manager uli hoeness said that his side could have won by a higher score .
" we decided not to tell the players what the other scores were and i still do not think that the championship will be decided on goal difference .
one team will still slip up . "
cicero gave berlin the lead in cologne three minutes from the break , before patrick ebert added a second midway through the second half with a shot that took a wicked deflection .
adil chihi pulled one back for cologne late in the game with his first-ever bundesliga goal .
karlsruhe looked on course for an important victory against hanover after alexander lashvili and lars stindl gave the home side a 2-0 lead after just 32 minutes .
however , sergio pinto and mikael forssell equalized matters before the break and hanno balitsch found a winner for hanover at the end of 64 minutes .
karlsruhe are last in the table with just 23 points and could be relegated on wednesday if three of the four teams directly above them win . av / ai / dpa / ap send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de wolfsburg on course for first-ever bundesliga title wolfsburg remain on target thrashing hoffenheim 4-0 as bayern win their first match in post-klinsmann era with four matches to play this season .
-lrb- 02.05.2009 -rrb- bremen ends hamburg hopes for bundesliga title bremen once again outclassed hamburg when they beat their northern german rivals 2-0 in a bundesliga match on sunday , all but killing off the side 's hopes for a league title .
-lrb- 10.05.2009 -rrb- gomez scores four as stuttgart thrashes wolfsburg mario gomez scored all four goals to take vfb stuttgart to a stunning 4-1 victory over bundesliga leaders vfl wolfsburg on saturday .
defending champions bayern munich won 3-1 against energie cottbus .
-lrb- 09.05.2009 -rrb- 9801 dw-tv europe live made in germany - das wirtschaftsmagazin we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live spectrum more efficient nuclear power , qr code coins , a chemicals in space and the future of nasa 's employees listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-radio listen to the latest from german soccer on dw-radio .
sports report anti-racism girls wanted : scouting for germany 's next generation of female football talent listen to the audio art women 's football - a source of inspiration watch the video video women 's soccer is more popular than ever in the us .
watch the video final standings click here for the final 2010-11 bundesliga table . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
wolfsburg , bayern and hertha win matches -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 22.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de bundesliga -pipe- 13.05.2009 wolfsburg , bayern and hertha win matches großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : wolfsburg 's grafite celebrates bundesliga leaders vfl wolfsburg and their two main challengers bayern munich and hertha berlin showed the way on tuesday as they won their midweek league matches . hertha berlin secured a 2-1 victory at cologne .
wolfsburg beat borussia dortmund 3-0 , and bayern munich scored three times in the second half en route to a 3-0 victory over bayer leverkusen .
wolfsburg and bayern are now at the top of the table with 63 points and two games remaining , with wolfsburg just two goals better than their rivals from southern germany .
hertha berlin are a point behind the two , while vfb stuttgart could move to 61 points if they win at schalke 04 on wednesday .
the other game on tuesday saw bottom club karlsruhe sc all but relegated after giving away a 2-0 lead against hanover 96 before finally losing 3-2 .
wolfsburg striking duo grafite and edin dzeko again provided the goals that kept the northern german side at the top .
dzeko opened the scoring in the 14th minute with his 21st goal of the season , before the brazilian grafite added a second goal two minutes after the restart .
dzeko scored his second goal six minutes from the end after being set up by grafite , who heads the goal scorer standings with 24 goals .
dortmund ended the game with ten men after kevin-prince boateng was sent off in the 75th minute - just eight minutes after coming on as a substitute .
wolfsburg coach felix magath said that his side wanted to do well after losing their last game at vfb stuttgart 4-1 , adding , " we went in search of goals from the word go . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : dortmund 's head coach juergen klopp klopp believes dortmund coach juergen klopp said , “ we have the quality and at the end of the day , that will come through . "
he noted that wolfsburg played very well and said , " they deserved to win .
they are a strong side and we certainly do not think that we lost badly .
at the end of the day , the number of goals scored against us , does not matter really . "
bayern wins again in munich , the visitors were denied two penalties in the first half , but could do nothing as luca toni , franck ribery and lukas podolski scored the goals that kept bayern in the hunt for a 22nd german championship .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : jupp heynckes bayern has now won the last three games under new coach jupp heynckes , who took over when juergen klinsmann was sacked .
he changed the team on a few positions and gave germany striker podolski , who spent most of the time on the bench under klinsmann , a starting place .
podolski , who scored one goal and set up the others , saying , " we did well as a team and trained well .
i think you can see that on the field .
the new coach gave me the trust and played me from the beginning and i tried to repay him on the field . "
bayern manager uli hoeness said that his side could have won by a higher score .
" we decided not to tell the players what the other scores were and i still do not think that the championship will be decided on goal difference .
one team will still slip up . "
cicero gave berlin the lead in cologne three minutes from the break , before patrick ebert added a second midway through the second half with a shot that took a wicked deflection .
adil chihi pulled one back for cologne late in the game with his first-ever bundesliga goal .
karlsruhe looked on course for an important victory against hanover after alexander lashvili and lars stindl gave the home side a 2-0 lead after just 32 minutes .
however , sergio pinto and mikael forssell equalized matters before the break and hanno balitsch found a winner for hanover at the end of 64 minutes .
karlsruhe are last in the table with just 23 points and could be relegated on wednesday if three of the four teams directly above them win . av / ai / dpa / ap send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de wolfsburg on course for first-ever bundesliga title wolfsburg remain on target thrashing hoffenheim 4-0 as bayern win their first match in post-klinsmann era with four matches to play this season .
-lrb- 02.05.2009 -rrb- bremen ends hamburg hopes for bundesliga title bremen once again outclassed hamburg when they beat their northern german rivals 2-0 in a bundesliga match on sunday , all but killing off the side 's hopes for a league title .
-lrb- 10.05.2009 -rrb- gomez scores four as stuttgart thrashes wolfsburg mario gomez scored all four goals to take vfb stuttgart to a stunning 4-1 victory over bundesliga leaders vfl wolfsburg on saturday .
defending champions bayern munich won 3-1 against energie cottbus .
-lrb- 09.05.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live spectrum listen live dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report high scorer freiburg 's papiss demba cisse opens up to dw-tv 's bundesliga kick off ! about his goalscoring ways .
watch the report scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results at a glance .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia moenchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany agrees on bad bank scheme -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 14.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de banking -pipe- 13.05.2009 germany agrees on bad bank scheme großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : steinbrueck wants to reassure voters they wo n't wear the cost of the bail-out the german cabinet has agreed on a plan to clean up toxic assets from bank balance sheets .
in the run-up to the election , the issue has become highly politically charged . the scheme , which forms a key element of berlin 's bid to turn europe 's biggest economy around , would allow banks to park their toxic assets for up to 20 years , in specially created institutions .
banks would receive government backed bonds in return .
finance minister peer steinbrueck said the banks would still be held responsible for the toxic assets and , in the long run , they would bear the cost of transferring and holding the assets .
just five months out from a national election , the issue has proved politically prickly .
politicians are torn between the pressing need to revive germany 's foundering banking sector and burdening taxpayers with a huge bank bailout .
berlin hopes that once the toxic holdings have been removed from banks ' balance sheets , they will begin lending to each other and to businesses and consumers again .
that is meant to jolt the german economy back to life .
economic forecasters predict 6 percent shrinkage in europe 's biggest economy in 2009 . ch / ncy / afp / dpa send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german government steps in to clean up banks ' toxic assets the german government has drawn up a draft plan to clean up toxic assets from banks ' balance sheets , a key part of berlin 's bid to turn around europe 's biggest economy .
-lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- koehler blasts banks for keeping quiet over financial crisis in run up to presidential race , german president horst koehler has hit out at bankers ' greed , but is optimistic that the dark cloud of global financial crisis will have a silver lining .
-lrb- 02.05.2009 -rrb- leaked list reveals german banks have 816 billion euros in toxic assets a german newspaper has published a leaked list from the bafin financial oversight group that shows german banks are weighed down under 816 billion euros in toxic assets .
-lrb- 25.04.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic sweden 's bad bank scheme what is a bad bank ? 9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit tagesthema we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
digital street art artists in berlin reinvent graffiti by projecting light onto buildings using computer systems .
watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
wolfsburg , bayern and hertha win matches -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 20.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de bundesliga -pipe- 13.05.2009 wolfsburg , bayern and hertha win matches großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : wolfsburg 's grafite celebrates bundesliga leaders vfl wolfsburg and their two main challengers bayern munich and hertha berlin showed the way on tuesday as they won their midweek league matches . hertha berlin secured a 2-1 victory at cologne .
wolfsburg beat borussia dortmund 3-0 , and bayern munich scored three times in the second half en route to a 3-0 victory over bayer leverkusen .
wolfsburg and bayern are now at the top of the table with 63 points and two games remaining , with wolfsburg just two goals better than their rivals from southern germany .
hertha berlin are a point behind the two , while vfb stuttgart could move to 61 points if they win at schalke 04 on wednesday .
the other game on tuesday saw bottom club karlsruhe sc all but relegated after giving away a 2-0 lead against hanover 96 before finally losing 3-2 .
wolfsburg striking duo grafite and edin dzeko again provided the goals that kept the northern german side at the top .
dzeko opened the scoring in the 14th minute with his 21st goal of the season , before the brazilian grafite added a second goal two minutes after the restart .
dzeko scored his second goal six minutes from the end after being set up by grafite , who heads the goal scorer standings with 24 goals .
dortmund ended the game with ten men after kevin-prince boateng was sent off in the 75th minute - just eight minutes after coming on as a substitute .
wolfsburg coach felix magath said that his side wanted to do well after losing their last game at vfb stuttgart 4-1 , adding , " we went in search of goals from the word go . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : dortmund 's head coach juergen klopp klopp believes dortmund coach juergen klopp said , “ we have the quality and at the end of the day , that will come through . "
he noted that wolfsburg played very well and said , " they deserved to win .
they are a strong side and we certainly do not think that we lost badly .
at the end of the day , the number of goals scored against us , does not matter really . "
bayern wins again in munich , the visitors were denied two penalties in the first half , but could do nothing as luca toni , franck ribery and lukas podolski scored the goals that kept bayern in the hunt for a 22nd german championship .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : jupp heynckes bayern has now won the last three games under new coach jupp heynckes , who took over when juergen klinsmann was sacked .
he changed the team on a few positions and gave germany striker podolski , who spent most of the time on the bench under klinsmann , a starting place .
podolski , who scored one goal and set up the others , saying , " we did well as a team and trained well .
i think you can see that on the field .
the new coach gave me the trust and played me from the beginning and i tried to repay him on the field . "
bayern manager uli hoeness said that his side could have won by a higher score .
" we decided not to tell the players what the other scores were and i still do not think that the championship will be decided on goal difference .
one team will still slip up . "
cicero gave berlin the lead in cologne three minutes from the break , before patrick ebert added a second midway through the second half with a shot that took a wicked deflection .
adil chihi pulled one back for cologne late in the game with his first-ever bundesliga goal .
karlsruhe looked on course for an important victory against hanover after alexander lashvili and lars stindl gave the home side a 2-0 lead after just 32 minutes .
however , sergio pinto and mikael forssell equalized matters before the break and hanno balitsch found a winner for hanover at the end of 64 minutes .
karlsruhe are last in the table with just 23 points and could be relegated on wednesday if three of the four teams directly above them win . av / ai / dpa / ap send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de wolfsburg on course for first-ever bundesliga title wolfsburg remain on target thrashing hoffenheim 4-0 as bayern win their first match in post-klinsmann era with four matches to play this season .
-lrb- 02.05.2009 -rrb- bremen ends hamburg hopes for bundesliga title bremen once again outclassed hamburg when they beat their northern german rivals 2-0 in a bundesliga match on sunday , all but killing off the side 's hopes for a league title .
-lrb- 10.05.2009 -rrb- gomez scores four as stuttgart thrashes wolfsburg mario gomez scored all four goals to take vfb stuttgart to a stunning 4-1 victory over bundesliga leaders vfl wolfsburg on saturday .
defending champions bayern munich won 3-1 against energie cottbus .
-lrb- 09.05.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live concert hour dresden musikfestival 01 listen live dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report bundesliga predictions week four picks dw sports sizes up the week four match-ups in the bundesliga .
and hopes to pick a couple right .
scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results at a glance .
dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia moenchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
french lawmakers to pull the plug on internet pirates -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de internet -pipe- 13.05.2009 french lawmakers to pull the plug on internet pirates großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : sarkozy championed the new legislation france has passed a bill that will let authorities track illegal downloading over the internet and disconnect repeat offenders .
opponents are critical of the law , arguing that access to the web is a fundamental right . the french senate on wednesday overwhelmingly voted into law a controversial measure that will cut off internet access to people who repeatedly download copyrighted music , films or video games without paying .
the vote , which had already passed the lower house by a narrow margin on tuesday , represents a success for president nicolas sarkozy , who championed the groundbreaking law .
the opposition socialists alienated many of their traditional supporters in the arts world by fighting the move .
the legislation aims to protect the revenues of record and film companies and recording artists .
after two warnings pirates will be cut off the tough new laws would punish music download pirates by shutting off their internet access for up to a year .
under the terms of the bill , internet pirates will receive two warnings , but their internet connection will be cut after the third offence .
during the time they are disconnected , they will have to continue paying their internet provider .
the music and film industries in france and abroad have shown wide support for the bill , but consumer groups and the socialist opposition have warned it would be difficult to implement .
opponents have criticized the penalties , and say access to the internet should be a fundamental right .
consumer groups said they feared intrusive monitoring of online activity and warn that innocent users may be unfairly punished if hackers use their accounts to download files .
the new law 's introduction onto the statute books is likely to be delayed by at least a month .
opponents have promised to challenge the legislation in france 's top court . ch / ncy / afp / reuters send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de major german online companies agree to block child porn websites german internet providers have grudgingly agreed to block websites containing child pornography .
critics say their deal with the government wo n't make much of a difference .
-lrb- 17.04.2009 -rrb- german artists defend copyright in google era google might reign as the unchallenged king of german search engines , but a lawsuit over the company 's popular image search feature brings into question the rights of german artists in the internet age .
-lrb- 21.10.2008 -rrb- new data law could benefit music pirates germany 's music industry fears that a new telephone data law could become a carte blanche for internet users , who download tunes illegally .
until now , they 've traced music pirates with the help of phone records .
-lrb- 30.03.2008 -rrb- 9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx - leben und kultur in europa we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live spectrum more efficient nuclear power , qr code coins , a chemicals in space and the future of nasa 's employees listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
unemployment facing high unemployment at home , many young spaniards are trying their luck in germany .
watch the video tour de danger why have there been so many violent crashes at this year 's tour de france ?
listen to the audio world war ii nazi leader adolf hitler 's austrian birthplace kicks him off its list of honorary citizens .
listen to the audio inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
wolfsburg , bayern and hertha win matches -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 30.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de bundesliga -pipe- 13.05.2009 wolfsburg , bayern and hertha win matches großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : wolfsburg 's grafite celebrates bundesliga leaders vfl wolfsburg and their two main challengers bayern munich and hertha berlin showed the way on tuesday as they won their midweek league matches . hertha berlin secured a 2-1 victory at cologne .
wolfsburg beat borussia dortmund 3-0 , and bayern munich scored three times in the second half en route to a 3-0 victory over bayer leverkusen .
wolfsburg and bayern are now at the top of the table with 63 points and two games remaining , with wolfsburg just two goals better than their rivals from southern germany .
hertha berlin are a point behind the two , while vfb stuttgart could move to 61 points if they win at schalke 04 on wednesday .
the other game on tuesday saw bottom club karlsruhe sc all but relegated after giving away a 2-0 lead against hanover 96 before finally losing 3-2 .
wolfsburg striking duo grafite and edin dzeko again provided the goals that kept the northern german side at the top .
dzeko opened the scoring in the 14th minute with his 21st goal of the season , before the brazilian grafite added a second goal two minutes after the restart .
dzeko scored his second goal six minutes from the end after being set up by grafite , who heads the goal scorer standings with 24 goals .
dortmund ended the game with ten men after kevin-prince boateng was sent off in the 75th minute - just eight minutes after coming on as a substitute .
wolfsburg coach felix magath said that his side wanted to do well after losing their last game at vfb stuttgart 4-1 , adding , " we went in search of goals from the word go . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : dortmund 's head coach juergen klopp klopp believes dortmund coach juergen klopp said , “ we have the quality and at the end of the day , that will come through . "
he noted that wolfsburg played very well and said , " they deserved to win .
they are a strong side and we certainly do not think that we lost badly .
at the end of the day , the number of goals scored against us , does not matter really . "
bayern wins again in munich , the visitors were denied two penalties in the first half , but could do nothing as luca toni , franck ribery and lukas podolski scored the goals that kept bayern in the hunt for a 22nd german championship .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : jupp heynckes bayern has now won the last three games under new coach jupp heynckes , who took over when juergen klinsmann was sacked .
he changed the team on a few positions and gave germany striker podolski , who spent most of the time on the bench under klinsmann , a starting place .
podolski , who scored one goal and set up the others , saying , " we did well as a team and trained well .
i think you can see that on the field .
the new coach gave me the trust and played me from the beginning and i tried to repay him on the field . "
bayern manager uli hoeness said that his side could have won by a higher score .
" we decided not to tell the players what the other scores were and i still do not think that the championship will be decided on goal difference .
one team will still slip up . "
cicero gave berlin the lead in cologne three minutes from the break , before patrick ebert added a second midway through the second half with a shot that took a wicked deflection .
adil chihi pulled one back for cologne late in the game with his first-ever bundesliga goal .
karlsruhe looked on course for an important victory against hanover after alexander lashvili and lars stindl gave the home side a 2-0 lead after just 32 minutes .
however , sergio pinto and mikael forssell equalized matters before the break and hanno balitsch found a winner for hanover at the end of 64 minutes .
karlsruhe are last in the table with just 23 points and could be relegated on wednesday if three of the four teams directly above them win . av / ai / dpa / ap send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de wolfsburg on course for first-ever bundesliga title wolfsburg remain on target thrashing hoffenheim 4-0 as bayern win their first match in post-klinsmann era with four matches to play this season .
-lrb- 02.05.2009 -rrb- bremen ends hamburg hopes for bundesliga title bremen once again outclassed hamburg when they beat their northern german rivals 2-0 in a bundesliga match on sunday , all but killing off the side 's hopes for a league title .
-lrb- 10.05.2009 -rrb- gomez scores four as stuttgart thrashes wolfsburg mario gomez scored all four goals to take vfb stuttgart to a stunning 4-1 victory over bundesliga leaders vfl wolfsburg on saturday .
defending champions bayern munich won 3-1 against energie cottbus .
-lrb- 09.05.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inspired minds remembering the late dame joan sutherland listen live dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report bundesliga predictions week ten predictions dw 's experts consulted the spirit world before making their predictions for match day .
scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results at a glance .
dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia moenchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
french lawmakers to pull the plug on internet pirates -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 21.11.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de internet -pipe- 13.05.2009 french lawmakers to pull the plug on internet pirates großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : sarkozy championed the new legislation france has passed a bill that will let authorities track illegal downloading over the internet and disconnect repeat offenders .
opponents are critical of the law , arguing that access to the web is a fundamental right . the french senate on wednesday overwhelmingly voted into law a controversial measure that will cut off internet access to people who repeatedly download copyrighted music , films or video games without paying .
the vote , which had already passed the lower house by a narrow margin on tuesday , represents a success for president nicolas sarkozy , who championed the groundbreaking law .
the opposition socialists alienated many of their traditional supporters in the arts world by fighting the move .
the legislation aims to protect the revenues of record and film companies and recording artists .
after two warnings pirates will be cut off the tough new laws would punish music download pirates by shutting off their internet access for up to a year .
under the terms of the bill , internet pirates will receive two warnings , but their internet connection will be cut after the third offence .
during the time they are disconnected , they will have to continue paying their internet provider .
the music and film industries in france and abroad have shown wide support for the bill , but consumer groups and the socialist opposition have warned it would be difficult to implement .
opponents have criticized the penalties , and say access to the internet should be a fundamental right .
consumer groups said they feared intrusive monitoring of online activity and warn that innocent users may be unfairly punished if hackers use their accounts to download files .
the new law 's introduction onto the statute books is likely to be delayed by at least a month .
opponents have promised to challenge the legislation in france 's top court . ch / ncy / afp / reuters send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de major german online companies agree to block child porn websites german internet providers have grudgingly agreed to block websites containing child pornography .
critics say their deal with the government wo n't make much of a difference .
-lrb- 17.04.2009 -rrb- german artists defend copyright in google era google might reign as the unchallenged king of german search engines , but a lawsuit over the company 's popular image search feature brings into question the rights of german artists in the internet age .
-lrb- 21.10.2008 -rrb- new data law could benefit music pirates germany 's music industry fears that a new telephone data law could become a carte blanche for internet users , who download tunes illegally .
until now , they 've traced music pirates with the help of phone records .
-lrb- 30.03.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
french lawmakers to pull the plug on internet pirates -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.10.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de internet -pipe- 13.05.2009 french lawmakers to pull the plug on internet pirates großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : sarkozy championed the new legislation france has passed a bill that will let authorities track illegal downloading over the internet and disconnect repeat offenders .
opponents are critical of the law , arguing that access to the web is a fundamental right . the french senate on wednesday overwhelmingly voted into law a controversial measure that will cut off internet access to people who repeatedly download copyrighted music , films or video games without paying .
the vote , which had already passed the lower house by a narrow margin on tuesday , represents a success for president nicolas sarkozy , who championed the groundbreaking law .
the opposition socialists alienated many of their traditional supporters in the arts world by fighting the move .
the legislation aims to protect the revenues of record and film companies and recording artists .
after two warnings pirates will be cut off the tough new laws would punish music download pirates by shutting off their internet access for up to a year .
under the terms of the bill , internet pirates will receive two warnings , but their internet connection will be cut after the third offence .
during the time they are disconnected , they will have to continue paying their internet provider .
the music and film industries in france and abroad have shown wide support for the bill , but consumer groups and the socialist opposition have warned it would be difficult to implement .
opponents have criticized the penalties , and say access to the internet should be a fundamental right .
consumer groups said they feared intrusive monitoring of online activity and warn that innocent users may be unfairly punished if hackers use their accounts to download files .
the new law 's introduction onto the statute books is likely to be delayed by at least a month .
opponents have promised to challenge the legislation in france 's top court . ch / ncy / afp / reuters send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de major german online companies agree to block child porn websites german internet providers have grudgingly agreed to block websites containing child pornography .
critics say their deal with the government wo n't make much of a difference .
-lrb- 17.04.2009 -rrb- german artists defend copyright in google era google might reign as the unchallenged king of german search engines , but a lawsuit over the company 's popular image search feature brings into question the rights of german artists in the internet age .
-lrb- 21.10.2008 -rrb- new data law could benefit music pirates germany 's music industry fears that a new telephone data law could become a carte blanche for internet users , who download tunes illegally .
until now , they 've traced music pirates with the help of phone records .
-lrb- 30.03.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live motor mobil we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live spectrum listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
quo vadis bosnia ?
betancourt book sparks controversy in france technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
sobibor survivor : demjanjuk trial will go down in history -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 30.10.2010 home news germany europe world from tierra del fuego to tijuana asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de world war ii -pipe- 13.05.2009 sobibor survivor : demjanjuk trial will go down in history großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some 250,000 jews , gypsies and political prisoners were murdered in sobibor 's gas chambers deutsche welle spoke with thomas blatt , one of few to escape from the nazi-run sobibor extermination camp .
he says he does n't care whether john demjanjuk is jailed for working at the camp , just that he tells the truth . thomas blatt was one of the few to survive the sobibor extermination camp in nazi-occupied poland during world war ii .
the 82-year-old is now a key witness in the munich trial of john demjanjuk , who is alleged to have been a guard at sobibor .
deutsche welle : why did you decide to come to germany for this trial ?
thomas blatt : because when i escaped from sobibor , i promised myself that if i survived , i will do everything to tell the story of sobibor .
and that 's what i 'm doing .
and i know that demjanjuk knows a lot , because demjanjuk was in the middle of the holocaust .
and he denies that it is him , that he was not a guard at sobibor , but he was .
i do n't care if demjanjuk is in jail or not .
i do care that he should tell the truth .
and the truth is , that he was a guard at sobibor .
sobibor was not a simple concentration camp .
sobibor was an extermination camp .
at sobibor the guards were simple murderers .
in a concentration camp a guard was a guard , … responsible -lsb- for preventing -rsb- people from running away .
but at sobibor they were simple murderers .
you said that among the guards at sobibor some were sadistic .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : demjanjuk 's wartime identification card is a major piece of evidence against him i said that they were sadistic and that some guards escaped from sobibor .
but demjanjuk did not escape .
he was there all the time with the nazis .
i do n't say that i -lsb- saw -rsb- him for sure .
-lsb- the guards -rsb- were very sadistic .
and we were more afraid of the guards than we were of the germans .
i 'm sure i know that he was a guard .
it is my duty to tell .
he should tell what sobibor was for .
what will be your reaction if there is not enough evidence to find mr. demjanjuk guilty ?
i believe that he will tell the truth , the way it was in sobibor .
and this will be part of history .
this will be -lsb- something -rsb- for the new generation to learn .
because what he has seen , few people have seen .
i strongly believe he will tell the truth .
and later demjanjuk could go free .
for me his testimony is very important , and that 's why i am in munich following demjanjuk 's story .
i am sorry in a way for demjanjuk .
he 's an old man , 89 years old .
he 's sick , he has a family .
so i 'm sorry in a way .
and i think that many people think the same way : he 's an old man , he 's suffered so much .
but i also see the other side of demjanjuk .
i see him as a terrible sadist , a murderer .
he did n't run away from his work .
interview : michael lawton editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de suspected nazi prison camp guard deported to germany the us has deported an alleged former nazi prison camp guard to germany .
jewish leaders hailed john demjanjuk 's deportation , saying they hoped it was n't too late for the 89-year-old to be brought to justice .
-lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- opinion : no statute of limitations on horrors of the holocaust after decades of judicial wrangling , the alleged nazi criminal john demjanjuk is to stand trial in germany .
on tuesday he was flown to munich and brought to a prison awaiting trial .
cornelia rabitz has this commentary : -lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- us seeks to clear path for demjanjuk deportation , again the us government has sought to clear the way to deport alleged former death camp guard john demjanjuk , just days after a us court postponed his deportation to wait for proof that he is fit to travel to germany .
-lrb- 21.04.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic michael lawton talks to raphael gross of the fritz bauer institute for holocaust studies about john demjanjuk nazi war crimes suspect john demjanjuk deported to germany -lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live in-box feedback from around the world listen live learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan new web site check out deutsche welle 's new asia page in english .
dw asia online news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's newest media partner latin america take a multimedia journey discover the region and its people © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany agrees on bad bank scheme -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 01.11.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de banking -pipe- 13.05.2009 germany agrees on bad bank scheme großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : steinbrueck wants to reassure voters they wo n't wear the cost of the bail-out the german cabinet has agreed on a plan to clean up toxic assets from bank balance sheets .
in the run-up to the election , the issue has become highly politically charged . the scheme , which forms a key element of berlin 's bid to turn europe 's biggest economy around , would allow banks to park their toxic assets for up to 20 years , in specially created institutions .
banks would receive government backed bonds in return .
finance minister peer steinbrueck said the banks would still be held responsible for the toxic assets and , in the long run , they would bear the cost of transferring and holding the assets .
just five months out from a national election , the issue has proved politically prickly .
politicians are torn between the pressing need to revive germany 's foundering banking sector and burdening taxpayers with a huge bank bailout .
berlin hopes that once the toxic holdings have been removed from banks ' balance sheets , they will begin lending to each other and to businesses and consumers again .
that is meant to jolt the german economy back to life .
economic forecasters predict 6 percent shrinkage in europe 's biggest economy in 2009 . ch / ncy / afp / dpa send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german government steps in to clean up banks ' toxic assets the german government has drawn up a draft plan to clean up toxic assets from banks ' balance sheets , a key part of berlin 's bid to turn around europe 's biggest economy .
-lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- koehler blasts banks for keeping quiet over financial crisis in run up to presidential race , german president horst koehler has hit out at bankers ' greed , but is optimistic that the dark cloud of global financial crisis will have a silver lining .
-lrb- 02.05.2009 -rrb- leaked list reveals german banks have 816 billion euros in toxic assets a german newspaper has published a leaked list from the bafin financial oversight group that shows german banks are weighed down under 816 billion euros in toxic assets .
-lrb- 25.04.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic sweden 's bad bank scheme what is a bad bank ?
feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany agrees on bad bank scheme -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 25.12.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de banking -pipe- 13.05.2009 germany agrees on bad bank scheme großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : steinbrueck wants to reassure voters they wo n't wear the cost of the bail-out the german cabinet has agreed on a plan to clean up toxic assets from bank balance sheets .
in the run-up to the election , the issue has become highly politically charged . the scheme , which forms a key element of berlin 's bid to turn europe 's biggest economy around , would allow banks to park their toxic assets for up to 20 years , in specially created institutions .
banks would receive government backed bonds in return .
finance minister peer steinbrueck said the banks would still be held responsible for the toxic assets and , in the long run , they would bear the cost of transferring and holding the assets .
just five months out from a national election , the issue has proved politically prickly .
politicians are torn between the pressing need to revive germany 's foundering banking sector and burdening taxpayers with a huge bank bailout .
berlin hopes that once the toxic holdings have been removed from banks ' balance sheets , they will begin lending to each other and to businesses and consumers again .
that is meant to jolt the german economy back to life .
economic forecasters predict 6 percent shrinkage in europe 's biggest economy in 2009 . ch / ncy / afp / dpa send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german government steps in to clean up banks ' toxic assets the german government has drawn up a draft plan to clean up toxic assets from banks ' balance sheets , a key part of berlin 's bid to turn around europe 's biggest economy .
-lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- koehler blasts banks for keeping quiet over financial crisis in run up to presidential race , german president horst koehler has hit out at bankers ' greed , but is optimistic that the dark cloud of global financial crisis will have a silver lining .
-lrb- 02.05.2009 -rrb- leaked list reveals german banks have 816 billion euros in toxic assets a german newspaper has published a leaked list from the bafin financial oversight group that shows german banks are weighed down under 816 billion euros in toxic assets .
-lrb- 25.04.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic sweden 's bad bank scheme what is a bad bank ?
feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
travel passau is called the three river city , but it is just as famous for its baroque splendor .
passau - baroque facades and vibrant arts watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
french lawmakers to pull the plug on internet pirates -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 11.09.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de internet -pipe- 13.05.2009 french lawmakers to pull the plug on internet pirates großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : sarkozy championed the new legislation france has passed a bill that will let authorities track illegal downloading over the internet and disconnect repeat offenders .
opponents are critical of the law , arguing that access to the web is a fundamental right . the french senate on wednesday overwhelmingly voted into law a controversial measure that will cut off internet access to people who repeatedly download copyrighted music , films or video games without paying .
the vote , which had already passed the lower house by a narrow margin on tuesday , represents a success for president nicolas sarkozy , who championed the groundbreaking law .
the opposition socialists alienated many of their traditional supporters in the arts world by fighting the move .
the legislation aims to protect the revenues of record and film companies and recording artists .
after two warnings pirates will be cut off the tough new laws would punish music download pirates by shutting off their internet access for up to a year .
under the terms of the bill , internet pirates will receive two warnings , but their internet connection will be cut after the third offence .
during the time they are disconnected , they will have to continue paying their internet provider .
the music and film industries in france and abroad have shown wide support for the bill , but consumer groups and the socialist opposition have warned it would be difficult to implement .
opponents have criticized the penalties , and say access to the internet should be a fundamental right .
consumer groups said they feared intrusive monitoring of online activity and warn that innocent users may be unfairly punished if hackers use their accounts to download files .
the new law 's introduction onto the statute books is likely to be delayed by at least a month .
opponents have promised to challenge the legislation in france 's top court . ch / ncy / afp / reuters send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de major german online companies agree to block child porn websites german internet providers have grudgingly agreed to block websites containing child pornography .
critics say their deal with the government wo n't make much of a difference .
-lrb- 17.04.2009 -rrb- german artists defend copyright in google era google might reign as the unchallenged king of german search engines , but a lawsuit over the company 's popular image search feature brings into question the rights of german artists in the internet age .
-lrb- 21.10.2008 -rrb- new data law could benefit music pirates germany 's music industry fears that a new telephone data law could become a carte blanche for internet users , who download tunes illegally .
until now , they 've traced music pirates with the help of phone records .
-lrb- 30.03.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live in focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live people natascha kampusch , the austrian who was kept prisoner from age 10 to 18 , publishes her autobigraphy .
listen to the report postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket are the gay games necessary ?
love parade - the end of an era oracle paul takes the plunge europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
french lawmakers to pull the plug on internet pirates -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 23.12.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de internet -pipe- 13.05.2009 french lawmakers to pull the plug on internet pirates großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : sarkozy championed the new legislation france has passed a bill that will let authorities track illegal downloading over the internet and disconnect repeat offenders .
opponents are critical of the law , arguing that access to the web is a fundamental right . the french senate on wednesday overwhelmingly voted into law a controversial measure that will cut off internet access to people who repeatedly download copyrighted music , films or video games without paying .
the vote , which had already passed the lower house by a narrow margin on tuesday , represents a success for president nicolas sarkozy , who championed the groundbreaking law .
the opposition socialists alienated many of their traditional supporters in the arts world by fighting the move .
the legislation aims to protect the revenues of record and film companies and recording artists .
after two warnings pirates will be cut off the tough new laws would punish music download pirates by shutting off their internet access for up to a year .
under the terms of the bill , internet pirates will receive two warnings , but their internet connection will be cut after the third offence .
during the time they are disconnected , they will have to continue paying their internet provider .
the music and film industries in france and abroad have shown wide support for the bill , but consumer groups and the socialist opposition have warned it would be difficult to implement .
opponents have criticized the penalties , and say access to the internet should be a fundamental right .
consumer groups said they feared intrusive monitoring of online activity and warn that innocent users may be unfairly punished if hackers use their accounts to download files .
the new law 's introduction onto the statute books is likely to be delayed by at least a month .
opponents have promised to challenge the legislation in france 's top court . ch / ncy / afp / reuters send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de major german online companies agree to block child porn websites german internet providers have grudgingly agreed to block websites containing child pornography .
critics say their deal with the government wo n't make much of a difference .
-lrb- 17.04.2009 -rrb- german artists defend copyright in google era google might reign as the unchallenged king of german search engines , but a lawsuit over the company 's popular image search feature brings into question the rights of german artists in the internet age .
-lrb- 21.10.2008 -rrb- new data law could benefit music pirates germany 's music industry fears that a new telephone data law could become a carte blanche for internet users , who download tunes illegally .
until now , they 've traced music pirates with the help of phone records .
-lrb- 30.03.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live motor mobil we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live world in progress development in a globalized world listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
pope visits west bank , calls for palestinian statehood -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 14.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de religion -pipe- 13.05.2009 pope visits west bank , calls for palestinian statehood großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : palestinians gave an enthusiastic welcome to pope benedict during a visit to bethlehem , pope benedict xvi voiced support for palestinian aspirations of an independent homeland and said he hoped the wall that israel has erected in and around the west bank would come down . speaking in bethlehem after holding a mass in manger square , the pope pressed calls to remove the wall and watch towers that seal bethlehem off from jerusalem .
" towering over us ... is a stark reminder of the stalemate that relations between israelis and palestinians seem to have reached - the wall , " the pope said as he stood in the shadow of israel 's separation wall in the aida refugee camp , which houses refugees from israel 's creation in 1948 .
the pope said it 's " understandable that palestinians feel frustrated , " adding that " their legitimate aspirations for permanent homes , for an independent palestinian state , remain unfulfilled . "
the camp is home to around 5,000 refugees .
bildunterschrift : palestinian children at the aida refugee camp next to a poster of the pope " i have seen , ... overshadowing much of bethlehem , the wall that intrudes into your territories , separating neighbors and dividing families , " the pope said in the town believed to be the birthplace of jesus christ .
" although walls can be easily built , we all know that they do not last forever .
they can be taken down . "
pope lends support to palestinian statehood earlier , thousands greeted the pope 's black limousine as he made his way to manger square where he said mass for about 5,000 people next to the church of the nativity that marks the spot where christians believe jesus was born to mary in a stable .
one of the aims of the pope 's visit is to attempt to preserve a shrinking christian presence in the middle east .
the christian population of bethlehem has decreased dramatically in recent years through emigration . thousands of christians left the town after a palestinian uprising in 2000 and was met by an israeli security clampdown and the start of construction of the barrier .
the pope acknowledged israel 's security concerns as well as palestinian suffering , and urged people not to " resort to acts of violence or terrorism . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : pope benedict xvi outside of the church of the nativity in bethlehem the pope said his heart went out to those caught up in the conflict in gaza , adding that he was praying for an end to the israeli embargo of the gaza strip .
earlier , the pontiff told palestinian president mahmoud abbas that he backed the creation of a palestinian state .
" the holy see supports the right of your people to a sovereign palestinian homeland in the land of your forefathers , secure and at peace with your neighbors , within internationally recognized borders , " he said .
the pope 's comments are the vatican 's strongest and most symbolic public backing yet for an independent palestinian state .
the two-state solution is supported by abbas , arab nations and western powers .
but the new israeli prime minister , benjamin netanyahu , has declined so far to endorse it .
visit dogged by controversy the german-born pope 's week-long trip to the middle east , his first visit to the region , has not been without controversy .
on tuesday , a row erupted over the pope 's membership as a teenager of the hitler youth , as he paid a historic visit to holy sites in jerusalem .
vatican spokesman , federico lombardi , said the pontiff had " never , never , never " belonged to the organization , but later changed his version , saying that he had been a member but his membership was compulsory .
in his own 1997 memoirs , pope benedict had said he had been registered with the hitler youth while he was at a seminary .
the latest row comes on the heels of comments by some israeli leaders complaining that the pope did not go far enough in offering emotion in remarks he made on monday at the yad vashem memorial to the jewish dead of the holocaust . sp , pfd reuters / ap / dpa send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de pope continues balancing act on tour of holy sites in jerusalem pope benedict xvi became the first pope to enter a politically-charged shrine in jerusalem sacred to jews and muslims .
the pope continues to face criticism on the second day of a week-long visit to the region .
-lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- pope continues middle east tour as criticism of yad vashem speech grows pope benedict xvi used a service at jerusalem 's yad vashem memorial to express " deep compassion " for the victims of the holocaust .
but jewish leaders in germany and israel criticized the pope for not going far enough .
-lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- pope seeks to salve holocaust wounds pope benedict xvi is on his first trip to israel .
he has used a speech to seek to heal the wounds created by , among other things , his reinstatement of a holocaust-denying bishop .
-lrb- 11.05.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic pope benedict calls israel 's security barrier in the west bank " tragic " 9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
pope visits west bank , calls for palestinian statehood -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 30.03.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de religion -pipe- 13.05.2009 pope visits west bank , calls for palestinian statehood großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : palestinians gave an enthusiastic welcome to pope benedict during a visit to bethlehem , pope benedict xvi voiced support for palestinian aspirations of an independent homeland and said he hoped the wall that israel has erected in and around the west bank would come down . speaking in bethlehem after holding a mass in manger square , the pope pressed calls to remove the wall and watch towers that seal bethlehem off from jerusalem .
" towering over us ... is a stark reminder of the stalemate that relations between israelis and palestinians seem to have reached - the wall , " the pope said as he stood in the shadow of israel 's separation wall in the aida refugee camp , which houses refugees from israel 's creation in 1948 .
the pope said it 's " understandable that palestinians feel frustrated , " adding that " their legitimate aspirations for permanent homes , for an independent palestinian state , remain unfulfilled . "
the camp is home to around 5,000 refugees .
bildunterschrift : palestinian children at the aida refugee camp next to a poster of the pope " i have seen , ... overshadowing much of bethlehem , the wall that intrudes into your territories , separating neighbors and dividing families , " the pope said in the town believed to be the birthplace of jesus christ .
" although walls can be easily built , we all know that they do not last forever .
they can be taken down . "
pope lends support to palestinian statehood earlier , thousands greeted the pope 's black limousine as he made his way to manger square where he said mass for about 5,000 people next to the church of the nativity that marks the spot where christians believe jesus was born to mary in a stable .
one of the aims of the pope 's visit is to attempt to preserve a shrinking christian presence in the middle east .
the christian population of bethlehem has decreased dramatically in recent years through emigration . thousands of christians left the town after a palestinian uprising in 2000 and was met by an israeli security clampdown and the start of construction of the barrier .
the pope acknowledged israel 's security concerns as well as palestinian suffering , and urged people not to " resort to acts of violence or terrorism . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : pope benedict xvi outside of the church of the nativity in bethlehem the pope said his heart went out to those caught up in the conflict in gaza , adding that he was praying for an end to the israeli embargo of the gaza strip .
earlier , the pontiff told palestinian president mahmoud abbas that he backed the creation of a palestinian state .
" the holy see supports the right of your people to a sovereign palestinian homeland in the land of your forefathers , secure and at peace with your neighbors , within internationally recognized borders , " he said .
the pope 's comments are the vatican 's strongest and most symbolic public backing yet for an independent palestinian state .
the two-state solution is supported by abbas , arab nations and western powers .
but the new israeli prime minister , benjamin netanyahu , has declined so far to endorse it .
visit dogged by controversy the german-born pope 's week-long trip to the middle east , his first visit to the region , has not been without controversy .
on tuesday , a row erupted over the pope 's membership as a teenager of the hitler youth , as he paid a historic visit to holy sites in jerusalem .
vatican spokesman , federico lombardi , said the pontiff had " never , never , never " belonged to the organization , but later changed his version , saying that he had been a member but his membership was compulsory .
in his own 1997 memoirs , pope benedict had said he had been registered with the hitler youth while he was at a seminary .
the latest row comes on the heels of comments by some israeli leaders complaining that the pope did not go far enough in offering emotion in remarks he made on monday at the yad vashem memorial to the jewish dead of the holocaust . sp , pfd reuters / ap / dpa send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de pope continues balancing act on tour of holy sites in jerusalem pope benedict xvi became the first pope to enter a politically-charged shrine in jerusalem sacred to jews and muslims .
the pope continues to face criticism on the second day of a week-long visit to the region .
-lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- pope continues middle east tour as criticism of yad vashem speech grows pope benedict xvi used a service at jerusalem 's yad vashem memorial to express " deep compassion " for the victims of the holocaust .
but jewish leaders in germany and israel criticized the pope for not going far enough .
-lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- pope seeks to salve holocaust wounds pope benedict xvi is on his first trip to israel .
he has used a speech to seek to heal the wounds created by , among other things , his reinstatement of a holocaust-denying bishop .
-lrb- 11.05.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic pope benedict calls israel 's security barrier in the west bank " tragic " feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
pope visits west bank , calls for palestinian statehood -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 19.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de religion -pipe- 13.05.2009 pope visits west bank , calls for palestinian statehood großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : palestinians gave an enthusiastic welcome to pope benedict during a visit to bethlehem , pope benedict xvi voiced support for palestinian aspirations of an independent homeland and said he hoped the wall that israel has erected in and around the west bank would come down . speaking in bethlehem after holding a mass in manger square , the pope pressed calls to remove the wall and watch towers that seal bethlehem off from jerusalem .
" towering over us ... is a stark reminder of the stalemate that relations between israelis and palestinians seem to have reached - the wall , " the pope said as he stood in the shadow of israel 's separation wall in the aida refugee camp , which houses refugees from israel 's creation in 1948 .
the pope said it 's " understandable that palestinians feel frustrated , " adding that " their legitimate aspirations for permanent homes , for an independent palestinian state , remain unfulfilled . "
the camp is home to around 5,000 refugees .
bildunterschrift : palestinian children at the aida refugee camp next to a poster of the pope " i have seen , ... overshadowing much of bethlehem , the wall that intrudes into your territories , separating neighbors and dividing families , " the pope said in the town believed to be the birthplace of jesus christ .
" although walls can be easily built , we all know that they do not last forever .
they can be taken down . "
pope lends support to palestinian statehood earlier , thousands greeted the pope 's black limousine as he made his way to manger square where he said mass for about 5,000 people next to the church of the nativity that marks the spot where christians believe jesus was born to mary in a stable .
one of the aims of the pope 's visit is to attempt to preserve a shrinking christian presence in the middle east .
the christian population of bethlehem has decreased dramatically in recent years through emigration . thousands of christians left the town after a palestinian uprising in 2000 and was met by an israeli security clampdown and the start of construction of the barrier .
the pope acknowledged israel 's security concerns as well as palestinian suffering , and urged people not to " resort to acts of violence or terrorism . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : pope benedict xvi outside of the church of the nativity in bethlehem the pope said his heart went out to those caught up in the conflict in gaza , adding that he was praying for an end to the israeli embargo of the gaza strip .
earlier , the pontiff told palestinian president mahmoud abbas that he backed the creation of a palestinian state .
" the holy see supports the right of your people to a sovereign palestinian homeland in the land of your forefathers , secure and at peace with your neighbors , within internationally recognized borders , " he said .
the pope 's comments are the vatican 's strongest and most symbolic public backing yet for an independent palestinian state .
the two-state solution is supported by abbas , arab nations and western powers .
but the new israeli prime minister , benjamin netanyahu , has declined so far to endorse it .
visit dogged by controversy the german-born pope 's week-long trip to the middle east , his first visit to the region , has not been without controversy .
on tuesday , a row erupted over the pope 's membership as a teenager of the hitler youth , as he paid a historic visit to holy sites in jerusalem .
vatican spokesman , federico lombardi , said the pontiff had " never , never , never " belonged to the organization , but later changed his version , saying that he had been a member but his membership was compulsory .
in his own 1997 memoirs , pope benedict had said he had been registered with the hitler youth while he was at a seminary .
the latest row comes on the heels of comments by some israeli leaders complaining that the pope did not go far enough in offering emotion in remarks he made on monday at the yad vashem memorial to the jewish dead of the holocaust . sp , pfd reuters / ap / dpa send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de pope continues balancing act on tour of holy sites in jerusalem pope benedict xvi became the first pope to enter a politically-charged shrine in jerusalem sacred to jews and muslims .
the pope continues to face criticism on the second day of a week-long visit to the region .
-lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- pope continues middle east tour as criticism of yad vashem speech grows pope benedict xvi used a service at jerusalem 's yad vashem memorial to express " deep compassion " for the victims of the holocaust .
but jewish leaders in germany and israel criticized the pope for not going far enough .
-lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- pope seeks to salve holocaust wounds pope benedict xvi is on his first trip to israel .
he has used a speech to seek to heal the wounds created by , among other things , his reinstatement of a holocaust-denying bishop .
-lrb- 11.05.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic pope benedict calls israel 's security barrier in the west bank " tragic " feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
pope visits west bank , calls for palestinian statehood -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 07.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de religion -pipe- 13.05.2009 pope visits west bank , calls for palestinian statehood großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : palestinians gave an enthusiastic welcome to pope benedict during a visit to bethlehem , pope benedict xvi voiced support for palestinian aspirations of an independent homeland and said he hoped the wall that israel has erected in and around the west bank would come down . speaking in bethlehem after holding a mass in manger square , the pope pressed calls to remove the wall and watch towers that seal bethlehem off from jerusalem .
" towering over us ... is a stark reminder of the stalemate that relations between israelis and palestinians seem to have reached - the wall , " the pope said as he stood in the shadow of israel 's separation wall in the aida refugee camp , which houses refugees from israel 's creation in 1948 .
the pope said it 's " understandable that palestinians feel frustrated , " adding that " their legitimate aspirations for permanent homes , for an independent palestinian state , remain unfulfilled . "
the camp is home to around 5,000 refugees .
bildunterschrift : palestinian children at the aida refugee camp next to a poster of the pope " i have seen , ... overshadowing much of bethlehem , the wall that intrudes into your territories , separating neighbors and dividing families , " the pope said in the town believed to be the birthplace of jesus christ .
" although walls can be easily built , we all know that they do not last forever .
they can be taken down . "
pope lends support to palestinian statehood earlier , thousands greeted the pope 's black limousine as he made his way to manger square where he said mass for about 5,000 people next to the church of the nativity that marks the spot where christians believe jesus was born to mary in a stable .
one of the aims of the pope 's visit is to attempt to preserve a shrinking christian presence in the middle east .
the christian population of bethlehem has decreased dramatically in recent years through emigration . thousands of christians left the town after a palestinian uprising in 2000 and was met by an israeli security clampdown and the start of construction of the barrier .
the pope acknowledged israel 's security concerns as well as palestinian suffering , and urged people not to " resort to acts of violence or terrorism . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : pope benedict xvi outside of the church of the nativity in bethlehem the pope said his heart went out to those caught up in the conflict in gaza , adding that he was praying for an end to the israeli embargo of the gaza strip .
earlier , the pontiff told palestinian president mahmoud abbas that he backed the creation of a palestinian state .
" the holy see supports the right of your people to a sovereign palestinian homeland in the land of your forefathers , secure and at peace with your neighbors , within internationally recognized borders , " he said .
the pope 's comments are the vatican 's strongest and most symbolic public backing yet for an independent palestinian state .
the two-state solution is supported by abbas , arab nations and western powers .
but the new israeli prime minister , benjamin netanyahu , has declined so far to endorse it .
visit dogged by controversy the german-born pope 's week-long trip to the middle east , his first visit to the region , has not been without controversy .
on tuesday , a row erupted over the pope 's membership as a teenager of the hitler youth , as he paid a historic visit to holy sites in jerusalem .
vatican spokesman , federico lombardi , said the pontiff had " never , never , never " belonged to the organization , but later changed his version , saying that he had been a member but his membership was compulsory .
in his own 1997 memoirs , pope benedict had said he had been registered with the hitler youth while he was at a seminary .
the latest row comes on the heels of comments by some israeli leaders complaining that the pope did not go far enough in offering emotion in remarks he made on monday at the yad vashem memorial to the jewish dead of the holocaust . sp , pfd reuters / ap / dpa send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de pope continues balancing act on tour of holy sites in jerusalem pope benedict xvi became the first pope to enter a politically-charged shrine in jerusalem sacred to jews and muslims .
the pope continues to face criticism on the second day of a week-long visit to the region .
-lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- pope continues middle east tour as criticism of yad vashem speech grows pope benedict xvi used a service at jerusalem 's yad vashem memorial to express " deep compassion " for the victims of the holocaust .
but jewish leaders in germany and israel criticized the pope for not going far enough .
-lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- pope seeks to salve holocaust wounds pope benedict xvi is on his first trip to israel .
he has used a speech to seek to heal the wounds created by , among other things , his reinstatement of a holocaust-denying bishop .
-lrb- 11.05.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic pope benedict calls israel 's security barrier in the west bank " tragic " feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
pope visits west bank , calls for palestinian statehood -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 19.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de religion -pipe- 13.05.2009 pope visits west bank , calls for palestinian statehood großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : palestinians gave an enthusiastic welcome to pope benedict during a visit to bethlehem , pope benedict xvi voiced support for palestinian aspirations of an independent homeland and said he hoped the wall that israel has erected in and around the west bank would come down . speaking in bethlehem after holding a mass in manger square , the pope pressed calls to remove the wall and watch towers that seal bethlehem off from jerusalem .
" towering over us ... is a stark reminder of the stalemate that relations between israelis and palestinians seem to have reached - the wall , " the pope said as he stood in the shadow of israel 's separation wall in the aida refugee camp , which houses refugees from israel 's creation in 1948 .
the pope said it 's " understandable that palestinians feel frustrated , " adding that " their legitimate aspirations for permanent homes , for an independent palestinian state , remain unfulfilled . "
the camp is home to around 5,000 refugees .
bildunterschrift : palestinian children at the aida refugee camp next to a poster of the pope " i have seen , ... overshadowing much of bethlehem , the wall that intrudes into your territories , separating neighbors and dividing families , " the pope said in the town believed to be the birthplace of jesus christ .
" although walls can be easily built , we all know that they do not last forever .
they can be taken down . "
pope lends support to palestinian statehood earlier , thousands greeted the pope 's black limousine as he made his way to manger square where he said mass for about 5,000 people next to the church of the nativity that marks the spot where christians believe jesus was born to mary in a stable .
one of the aims of the pope 's visit is to attempt to preserve a shrinking christian presence in the middle east .
the christian population of bethlehem has decreased dramatically in recent years through emigration . thousands of christians left the town after a palestinian uprising in 2000 and was met by an israeli security clampdown and the start of construction of the barrier .
the pope acknowledged israel 's security concerns as well as palestinian suffering , and urged people not to " resort to acts of violence or terrorism . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : pope benedict xvi outside of the church of the nativity in bethlehem the pope said his heart went out to those caught up in the conflict in gaza , adding that he was praying for an end to the israeli embargo of the gaza strip .
earlier , the pontiff told palestinian president mahmoud abbas that he backed the creation of a palestinian state .
" the holy see supports the right of your people to a sovereign palestinian homeland in the land of your forefathers , secure and at peace with your neighbors , within internationally recognized borders , " he said .
the pope 's comments are the vatican 's strongest and most symbolic public backing yet for an independent palestinian state .
the two-state solution is supported by abbas , arab nations and western powers .
but the new israeli prime minister , benjamin netanyahu , has declined so far to endorse it .
visit dogged by controversy the german-born pope 's week-long trip to the middle east , his first visit to the region , has not been without controversy .
on tuesday , a row erupted over the pope 's membership as a teenager of the hitler youth , as he paid a historic visit to holy sites in jerusalem .
vatican spokesman , federico lombardi , said the pontiff had " never , never , never " belonged to the organization , but later changed his version , saying that he had been a member but his membership was compulsory .
in his own 1997 memoirs , pope benedict had said he had been registered with the hitler youth while he was at a seminary .
the latest row comes on the heels of comments by some israeli leaders complaining that the pope did not go far enough in offering emotion in remarks he made on monday at the yad vashem memorial to the jewish dead of the holocaust . sp , pfd reuters / ap / dpa send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de pope continues balancing act on tour of holy sites in jerusalem pope benedict xvi became the first pope to enter a politically-charged shrine in jerusalem sacred to jews and muslims .
the pope continues to face criticism on the second day of a week-long visit to the region .
-lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- pope continues middle east tour as criticism of yad vashem speech grows pope benedict xvi used a service at jerusalem 's yad vashem memorial to express " deep compassion " for the victims of the holocaust .
but jewish leaders in germany and israel criticized the pope for not going far enough .
-lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- pope seeks to salve holocaust wounds pope benedict xvi is on his first trip to israel .
he has used a speech to seek to heal the wounds created by , among other things , his reinstatement of a holocaust-denying bishop .
-lrb- 11.05.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic pope benedict calls israel 's security barrier in the west bank " tragic " feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
van gaal to become next bayern munich coach -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de soccer -pipe- 13.05.2009 van gaal to become next bayern munich coach großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : futuer bayern munich head coach louis van gaal bayern munich are set to sign dutch coach louis van gaal ending weeks of speculation over who will be in charge of the bundesliga soccer club next season . bayern munich have confirmed that dutch coach louis van gaal will join the defending bundesliga champions as head coach on a two-year contract as of july 1 .
he is to replace interim coach jupp heynkes , who took over after juergen klinsmann was fired last month .
the coach who has led az alkmaar to their first dutch league title since 1981 , had been bayern 's first choice for the job . other managers under consideration are said to have included inter manager jose mourinho and arsenal 's arsene wenger .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bayern chairman karl-heinz rummenigge munich pleased with choice " we are happy that in louis van gaal we have managed to secure such an experienced and successful coach for bayern munich , " said bayern chairman karl-heinz rummenigge in a statement posted on the club 's website on wednesday .
having steered ajax to the champions league title in 1995 , van gaal , 57 , has a wealth of experience having also led the giants from amsterdam to consecutive dutch titles in 1994 , 1995 and 1996 .
after leading barcelona to back-to-back spanish league titles in 1998 and 1999 , the only blip in an otherwise exceptional career was when he took charge of the netherlands in 2000 .
when the dutch failed to reach the world cup finals in japan and south korea in 2002 , he was replaced by dick advocaat .
van gaal inherits a squad that is level on points with bundesliga leaders wolfsburg with two games remaining in the season .
he is expected to be closely involved in transfer decisions at the end of this season .
in return for alkmaar agreeing to release van gaal before his contract expires , bayern have agreed to play a friendly against alkmaar in the summer of 2010 without charging a fee . nt / pfd , sid / reuters / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ? 9797 dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit tagesthema we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-radio listen to the latest from german soccer on dw-radio .
sports report anti-racism girls wanted : scouting for germany 's next generation of female football talent listen to the audio art women 's football - a source of inspiration watch the video video women 's soccer is more popular than ever in the us .
watch the video final standings click here for the final 2010-11 bundesliga table . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
french lawmakers to pull the plug on internet pirates -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de internet -pipe- 13.05.2009 french lawmakers to pull the plug on internet pirates großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : sarkozy championed the new legislation france has passed a bill that will let authorities track illegal downloading over the internet and disconnect repeat offenders .
opponents are critical of the law , arguing that access to the web is a fundamental right . the french senate on wednesday overwhelmingly voted into law a controversial measure that will cut off internet access to people who repeatedly download copyrighted music , films or video games without paying .
the vote , which had already passed the lower house by a narrow margin on tuesday , represents a success for president nicolas sarkozy , who championed the groundbreaking law .
the opposition socialists alienated many of their traditional supporters in the arts world by fighting the move .
the legislation aims to protect the revenues of record and film companies and recording artists .
after two warnings pirates will be cut off the tough new laws would punish music download pirates by shutting off their internet access for up to a year .
under the terms of the bill , internet pirates will receive two warnings , but their internet connection will be cut after the third offence .
during the time they are disconnected , they will have to continue paying their internet provider .
the music and film industries in france and abroad have shown wide support for the bill , but consumer groups and the socialist opposition have warned it would be difficult to implement .
opponents have criticized the penalties , and say access to the internet should be a fundamental right .
consumer groups said they feared intrusive monitoring of online activity and warn that innocent users may be unfairly punished if hackers use their accounts to download files .
the new law 's introduction onto the statute books is likely to be delayed by at least a month .
opponents have promised to challenge the legislation in france 's top court . ch / ncy / afp / reuters send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de major german online companies agree to block child porn websites german internet providers have grudgingly agreed to block websites containing child pornography .
critics say their deal with the government wo n't make much of a difference .
-lrb- 17.04.2009 -rrb- german artists defend copyright in google era google might reign as the unchallenged king of german search engines , but a lawsuit over the company 's popular image search feature brings into question the rights of german artists in the internet age .
-lrb- 21.10.2008 -rrb- new data law could benefit music pirates germany 's music industry fears that a new telephone data law could become a carte blanche for internet users , who download tunes illegally .
until now , they 've traced music pirates with the help of phone records .
-lrb- 30.03.2008 -rrb- 9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit tagesthema we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live spectrum more efficient nuclear power , qr code coins , a chemicals in space and the future of nasa 's employees listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
unemployment facing high unemployment at home , many young spaniards are trying their luck in germany .
watch the video tour de danger why have there been so many violent crashes at this year 's tour de france ?
listen to the audio world war ii nazi leader adolf hitler 's austrian birthplace kicks him off its list of honorary citizens .
listen to the audio inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
french lawmakers to pull the plug on internet pirates -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.10.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de internet -pipe- 13.05.2009 french lawmakers to pull the plug on internet pirates großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : sarkozy championed the new legislation france has passed a bill that will let authorities track illegal downloading over the internet and disconnect repeat offenders .
opponents are critical of the law , arguing that access to the web is a fundamental right . the french senate on wednesday overwhelmingly voted into law a controversial measure that will cut off internet access to people who repeatedly download copyrighted music , films or video games without paying .
the vote , which had already passed the lower house by a narrow margin on tuesday , represents a success for president nicolas sarkozy , who championed the groundbreaking law .
the opposition socialists alienated many of their traditional supporters in the arts world by fighting the move .
the legislation aims to protect the revenues of record and film companies and recording artists .
after two warnings pirates will be cut off the tough new laws would punish music download pirates by shutting off their internet access for up to a year .
under the terms of the bill , internet pirates will receive two warnings , but their internet connection will be cut after the third offence .
during the time they are disconnected , they will have to continue paying their internet provider .
the music and film industries in france and abroad have shown wide support for the bill , but consumer groups and the socialist opposition have warned it would be difficult to implement .
opponents have criticized the penalties , and say access to the internet should be a fundamental right .
consumer groups said they feared intrusive monitoring of online activity and warn that innocent users may be unfairly punished if hackers use their accounts to download files .
the new law 's introduction onto the statute books is likely to be delayed by at least a month .
opponents have promised to challenge the legislation in france 's top court . ch / ncy / afp / reuters send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de major german online companies agree to block child porn websites german internet providers have grudgingly agreed to block websites containing child pornography .
critics say their deal with the government wo n't make much of a difference .
-lrb- 17.04.2009 -rrb- german artists defend copyright in google era google might reign as the unchallenged king of german search engines , but a lawsuit over the company 's popular image search feature brings into question the rights of german artists in the internet age .
-lrb- 21.10.2008 -rrb- new data law could benefit music pirates germany 's music industry fears that a new telephone data law could become a carte blanche for internet users , who download tunes illegally .
until now , they 've traced music pirates with the help of phone records .
-lrb- 30.03.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live concert hour listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
quo vadis bosnia ?
betancourt book sparks controversy in france technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
french lawmakers to pull the plug on internet pirates -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 14.01.2011 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de internet -pipe- 13.05.2009 french lawmakers to pull the plug on internet pirates großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : sarkozy championed the new legislation france has passed a bill that will let authorities track illegal downloading over the internet and disconnect repeat offenders .
opponents are critical of the law , arguing that access to the web is a fundamental right . the french senate on wednesday overwhelmingly voted into law a controversial measure that will cut off internet access to people who repeatedly download copyrighted music , films or video games without paying .
the vote , which had already passed the lower house by a narrow margin on tuesday , represents a success for president nicolas sarkozy , who championed the groundbreaking law .
the opposition socialists alienated many of their traditional supporters in the arts world by fighting the move .
the legislation aims to protect the revenues of record and film companies and recording artists .
after two warnings pirates will be cut off the tough new laws would punish music download pirates by shutting off their internet access for up to a year .
under the terms of the bill , internet pirates will receive two warnings , but their internet connection will be cut after the third offence .
during the time they are disconnected , they will have to continue paying their internet provider .
the music and film industries in france and abroad have shown wide support for the bill , but consumer groups and the socialist opposition have warned it would be difficult to implement .
opponents have criticized the penalties , and say access to the internet should be a fundamental right .
consumer groups said they feared intrusive monitoring of online activity and warn that innocent users may be unfairly punished if hackers use their accounts to download files .
the new law 's introduction onto the statute books is likely to be delayed by at least a month .
opponents have promised to challenge the legislation in france 's top court . ch / ncy / afp / reuters send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de major german online companies agree to block child porn websites german internet providers have grudgingly agreed to block websites containing child pornography .
critics say their deal with the government wo n't make much of a difference .
-lrb- 17.04.2009 -rrb- german artists defend copyright in google era google might reign as the unchallenged king of german search engines , but a lawsuit over the company 's popular image search feature brings into question the rights of german artists in the internet age .
-lrb- 21.10.2008 -rrb- new data law could benefit music pirates germany 's music industry fears that a new telephone data law could become a carte blanche for internet users , who download tunes illegally .
until now , they 've traced music pirates with the help of phone records .
-lrb- 30.03.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inside europe listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
italians hard hit by plastic bag ban east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
french lawmakers to pull the plug on internet pirates -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 11.09.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de internet -pipe- 13.05.2009 french lawmakers to pull the plug on internet pirates großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : sarkozy championed the new legislation france has passed a bill that will let authorities track illegal downloading over the internet and disconnect repeat offenders .
opponents are critical of the law , arguing that access to the web is a fundamental right . the french senate on wednesday overwhelmingly voted into law a controversial measure that will cut off internet access to people who repeatedly download copyrighted music , films or video games without paying .
the vote , which had already passed the lower house by a narrow margin on tuesday , represents a success for president nicolas sarkozy , who championed the groundbreaking law .
the opposition socialists alienated many of their traditional supporters in the arts world by fighting the move .
the legislation aims to protect the revenues of record and film companies and recording artists .
after two warnings pirates will be cut off the tough new laws would punish music download pirates by shutting off their internet access for up to a year .
under the terms of the bill , internet pirates will receive two warnings , but their internet connection will be cut after the third offence .
during the time they are disconnected , they will have to continue paying their internet provider .
the music and film industries in france and abroad have shown wide support for the bill , but consumer groups and the socialist opposition have warned it would be difficult to implement .
opponents have criticized the penalties , and say access to the internet should be a fundamental right .
consumer groups said they feared intrusive monitoring of online activity and warn that innocent users may be unfairly punished if hackers use their accounts to download files .
the new law 's introduction onto the statute books is likely to be delayed by at least a month .
opponents have promised to challenge the legislation in france 's top court . ch / ncy / afp / reuters send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de major german online companies agree to block child porn websites german internet providers have grudgingly agreed to block websites containing child pornography .
critics say their deal with the government wo n't make much of a difference .
-lrb- 17.04.2009 -rrb- german artists defend copyright in google era google might reign as the unchallenged king of german search engines , but a lawsuit over the company 's popular image search feature brings into question the rights of german artists in the internet age .
-lrb- 21.10.2008 -rrb- new data law could benefit music pirates germany 's music industry fears that a new telephone data law could become a carte blanche for internet users , who download tunes illegally .
until now , they 've traced music pirates with the help of phone records .
-lrb- 30.03.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live learning by ear listen live people natascha kampusch , the austrian who was kept prisoner from age 10 to 18 , publishes her autobigraphy .
listen to the report postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket are the gay games necessary ?
love parade - the end of an era oracle paul takes the plunge europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
french lawmakers to pull the plug on internet pirates -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.12.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de internet -pipe- 13.05.2009 french lawmakers to pull the plug on internet pirates großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : sarkozy championed the new legislation france has passed a bill that will let authorities track illegal downloading over the internet and disconnect repeat offenders .
opponents are critical of the law , arguing that access to the web is a fundamental right . the french senate on wednesday overwhelmingly voted into law a controversial measure that will cut off internet access to people who repeatedly download copyrighted music , films or video games without paying .
the vote , which had already passed the lower house by a narrow margin on tuesday , represents a success for president nicolas sarkozy , who championed the groundbreaking law .
the opposition socialists alienated many of their traditional supporters in the arts world by fighting the move .
the legislation aims to protect the revenues of record and film companies and recording artists .
after two warnings pirates will be cut off the tough new laws would punish music download pirates by shutting off their internet access for up to a year .
under the terms of the bill , internet pirates will receive two warnings , but their internet connection will be cut after the third offence .
during the time they are disconnected , they will have to continue paying their internet provider .
the music and film industries in france and abroad have shown wide support for the bill , but consumer groups and the socialist opposition have warned it would be difficult to implement .
opponents have criticized the penalties , and say access to the internet should be a fundamental right .
consumer groups said they feared intrusive monitoring of online activity and warn that innocent users may be unfairly punished if hackers use their accounts to download files .
the new law 's introduction onto the statute books is likely to be delayed by at least a month .
opponents have promised to challenge the legislation in france 's top court . ch / ncy / afp / reuters send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de major german online companies agree to block child porn websites german internet providers have grudgingly agreed to block websites containing child pornography .
critics say their deal with the government wo n't make much of a difference .
-lrb- 17.04.2009 -rrb- german artists defend copyright in google era google might reign as the unchallenged king of german search engines , but a lawsuit over the company 's popular image search feature brings into question the rights of german artists in the internet age .
-lrb- 21.10.2008 -rrb- new data law could benefit music pirates germany 's music industry fears that a new telephone data law could become a carte blanche for internet users , who download tunes illegally .
until now , they 've traced music pirates with the help of phone records .
-lrb- 30.03.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live concert hour ard international music competition , part one listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
sobibor survivor : demjanjuk trial will go down in history -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de world war ii -pipe- 13.05.2009 sobibor survivor : demjanjuk trial will go down in history großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some 250,000 jews , gypsies and political prisoners were murdered in sobibor 's gas chambers deutsche welle spoke with thomas blatt , one of few to escape from the nazi-run sobibor extermination camp .
he says he does n't care whether john demjanjuk is jailed for working at the camp , just that he tells the truth . thomas blatt was one of the few to survive the sobibor extermination camp in nazi-occupied poland during world war ii .
the 82-year-old is now a key witness in the munich trial of john demjanjuk , who is alleged to have been a guard at sobibor .
deutsche welle : why did you decide to come to germany for this trial ?
thomas blatt : because when i escaped from sobibor , i promised myself that if i survived , i will do everything to tell the story of sobibor .
and that 's what i 'm doing .
and i know that demjanjuk knows a lot , because demjanjuk was in the middle of the holocaust .
and he denies that it is him , that he was not a guard at sobibor , but he was .
i do n't care if demjanjuk is in jail or not .
i do care that he should tell the truth .
and the truth is , that he was a guard at sobibor .
sobibor was not a simple concentration camp .
sobibor was an extermination camp .
at sobibor the guards were simple murderers .
in a concentration camp a guard was a guard , … responsible -lsb- for preventing -rsb- people from running away .
but at sobibor they were simple murderers .
you said that among the guards at sobibor some were sadistic .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : demjanjuk 's wartime identification card is a major piece of evidence against him i said that they were sadistic and that some guards escaped from sobibor .
but demjanjuk did not escape .
he was there all the time with the nazis .
i do n't say that i -lsb- saw -rsb- him for sure .
-lsb- the guards -rsb- were very sadistic .
and we were more afraid of the guards than we were of the germans .
i 'm sure i know that he was a guard .
it is my duty to tell .
he should tell what sobibor was for .
what will be your reaction if there is not enough evidence to find mr. demjanjuk guilty ?
i believe that he will tell the truth , the way it was in sobibor .
and this will be part of history .
this will be -lsb- something -rsb- for the new generation to learn .
because what he has seen , few people have seen .
i strongly believe he will tell the truth .
and later demjanjuk could go free .
for me his testimony is very important , and that 's why i am in munich following demjanjuk 's story .
i am sorry in a way for demjanjuk .
he 's an old man , 89 years old .
he 's sick , he has a family .
so i 'm sorry in a way .
and i think that many people think the same way : he 's an old man , he 's suffered so much .
but i also see the other side of demjanjuk .
i see him as a terrible sadist , a murderer .
he did n't run away from his work .
interview : michael lawton editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de suspected nazi prison camp guard deported to germany the us has deported an alleged former nazi prison camp guard to germany .
jewish leaders hailed john demjanjuk 's deportation , saying they hoped it was n't too late for the 89-year-old to be brought to justice .
-lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- opinion : no statute of limitations on horrors of the holocaust after decades of judicial wrangling , the alleged nazi criminal john demjanjuk is to stand trial in germany .
on tuesday he was flown to munich and brought to a prison awaiting trial .
cornelia rabitz has this commentary : -lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- us seeks to clear path for demjanjuk deportation , again the us government has sought to clear the way to deport alleged former death camp guard john demjanjuk , just days after a us court postponed his deportation to wait for proof that he is fit to travel to germany .
-lrb- 21.04.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic michael lawton talks to raphael gross of the fritz bauer institute for holocaust studies about john demjanjuk nazi war crimes suspect john demjanjuk deported to germany -lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- 9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
wto ruling the world trade organization rules that china 's export restrictions on raw materials are illegal .
watch the video in depth focus on libya dw-world looks at the turmoil in libya : what it means for tripoli and the rest of the world .
international conference media representatives around the world gather in bonn to discuss human rights .
podcast series by teaching stand-up comedy , bryan encourages his students to discover their talents .
download the report subscribe to the series on itunes past episodes learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
sobibor survivor : demjanjuk trial will go down in history -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 05.11.2010 home news germany europe world from tierra del fuego to tijuana asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de world war ii -pipe- 13.05.2009 sobibor survivor : demjanjuk trial will go down in history großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some 250,000 jews , gypsies and political prisoners were murdered in sobibor 's gas chambers deutsche welle spoke with thomas blatt , one of few to escape from the nazi-run sobibor extermination camp .
he says he does n't care whether john demjanjuk is jailed for working at the camp , just that he tells the truth . thomas blatt was one of the few to survive the sobibor extermination camp in nazi-occupied poland during world war ii .
the 82-year-old is now a key witness in the munich trial of john demjanjuk , who is alleged to have been a guard at sobibor .
deutsche welle : why did you decide to come to germany for this trial ?
thomas blatt : because when i escaped from sobibor , i promised myself that if i survived , i will do everything to tell the story of sobibor .
and that 's what i 'm doing .
and i know that demjanjuk knows a lot , because demjanjuk was in the middle of the holocaust .
and he denies that it is him , that he was not a guard at sobibor , but he was .
i do n't care if demjanjuk is in jail or not .
i do care that he should tell the truth .
and the truth is , that he was a guard at sobibor .
sobibor was not a simple concentration camp .
sobibor was an extermination camp .
at sobibor the guards were simple murderers .
in a concentration camp a guard was a guard , … responsible -lsb- for preventing -rsb- people from running away .
but at sobibor they were simple murderers .
you said that among the guards at sobibor some were sadistic .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : demjanjuk 's wartime identification card is a major piece of evidence against him i said that they were sadistic and that some guards escaped from sobibor .
but demjanjuk did not escape .
he was there all the time with the nazis .
i do n't say that i -lsb- saw -rsb- him for sure .
-lsb- the guards -rsb- were very sadistic .
and we were more afraid of the guards than we were of the germans .
i 'm sure i know that he was a guard .
it is my duty to tell .
he should tell what sobibor was for .
what will be your reaction if there is not enough evidence to find mr. demjanjuk guilty ?
i believe that he will tell the truth , the way it was in sobibor .
and this will be part of history .
this will be -lsb- something -rsb- for the new generation to learn .
because what he has seen , few people have seen .
i strongly believe he will tell the truth .
and later demjanjuk could go free .
for me his testimony is very important , and that 's why i am in munich following demjanjuk 's story .
i am sorry in a way for demjanjuk .
he 's an old man , 89 years old .
he 's sick , he has a family .
so i 'm sorry in a way .
and i think that many people think the same way : he 's an old man , he 's suffered so much .
but i also see the other side of demjanjuk .
i see him as a terrible sadist , a murderer .
he did n't run away from his work .
interview : michael lawton editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de suspected nazi prison camp guard deported to germany the us has deported an alleged former nazi prison camp guard to germany .
jewish leaders hailed john demjanjuk 's deportation , saying they hoped it was n't too late for the 89-year-old to be brought to justice .
-lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- opinion : no statute of limitations on horrors of the holocaust after decades of judicial wrangling , the alleged nazi criminal john demjanjuk is to stand trial in germany .
on tuesday he was flown to munich and brought to a prison awaiting trial .
cornelia rabitz has this commentary : -lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- us seeks to clear path for demjanjuk deportation , again the us government has sought to clear the way to deport alleged former death camp guard john demjanjuk , just days after a us court postponed his deportation to wait for proof that he is fit to travel to germany .
-lrb- 21.04.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic michael lawton talks to raphael gross of the fritz bauer institute for holocaust studies about john demjanjuk nazi war crimes suspect john demjanjuk deported to germany -lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live living planet humans relations with animals listen live learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan new web site check out deutsche welle 's new asia page in english .
dw asia online news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's newest media partner latin america take a multimedia journey discover the region and its people © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
sobibor survivor : demjanjuk trial will go down in history -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.12.2010 home news germany europe world from tierra del fuego to tijuana asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de world war ii -pipe- 13.05.2009 sobibor survivor : demjanjuk trial will go down in history großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some 250,000 jews , gypsies and political prisoners were murdered in sobibor 's gas chambers deutsche welle spoke with thomas blatt , one of few to escape from the nazi-run sobibor extermination camp .
he says he does n't care whether john demjanjuk is jailed for working at the camp , just that he tells the truth . thomas blatt was one of the few to survive the sobibor extermination camp in nazi-occupied poland during world war ii .
the 82-year-old is now a key witness in the munich trial of john demjanjuk , who is alleged to have been a guard at sobibor .
deutsche welle : why did you decide to come to germany for this trial ?
thomas blatt : because when i escaped from sobibor , i promised myself that if i survived , i will do everything to tell the story of sobibor .
and that 's what i 'm doing .
and i know that demjanjuk knows a lot , because demjanjuk was in the middle of the holocaust .
and he denies that it is him , that he was not a guard at sobibor , but he was .
i do n't care if demjanjuk is in jail or not .
i do care that he should tell the truth .
and the truth is , that he was a guard at sobibor .
sobibor was not a simple concentration camp .
sobibor was an extermination camp .
at sobibor the guards were simple murderers .
in a concentration camp a guard was a guard , … responsible -lsb- for preventing -rsb- people from running away .
but at sobibor they were simple murderers .
you said that among the guards at sobibor some were sadistic .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : demjanjuk 's wartime identification card is a major piece of evidence against him i said that they were sadistic and that some guards escaped from sobibor .
but demjanjuk did not escape .
he was there all the time with the nazis .
i do n't say that i -lsb- saw -rsb- him for sure .
-lsb- the guards -rsb- were very sadistic .
and we were more afraid of the guards than we were of the germans .
i 'm sure i know that he was a guard .
it is my duty to tell .
he should tell what sobibor was for .
what will be your reaction if there is not enough evidence to find mr. demjanjuk guilty ?
i believe that he will tell the truth , the way it was in sobibor .
and this will be part of history .
this will be -lsb- something -rsb- for the new generation to learn .
because what he has seen , few people have seen .
i strongly believe he will tell the truth .
and later demjanjuk could go free .
for me his testimony is very important , and that 's why i am in munich following demjanjuk 's story .
i am sorry in a way for demjanjuk .
he 's an old man , 89 years old .
he 's sick , he has a family .
so i 'm sorry in a way .
and i think that many people think the same way : he 's an old man , he 's suffered so much .
but i also see the other side of demjanjuk .
i see him as a terrible sadist , a murderer .
he did n't run away from his work .
interview : michael lawton editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de suspected nazi prison camp guard deported to germany the us has deported an alleged former nazi prison camp guard to germany .
jewish leaders hailed john demjanjuk 's deportation , saying they hoped it was n't too late for the 89-year-old to be brought to justice .
-lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- opinion : no statute of limitations on horrors of the holocaust after decades of judicial wrangling , the alleged nazi criminal john demjanjuk is to stand trial in germany .
on tuesday he was flown to munich and brought to a prison awaiting trial .
cornelia rabitz has this commentary : -lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- us seeks to clear path for demjanjuk deportation , again the us government has sought to clear the way to deport alleged former death camp guard john demjanjuk , just days after a us court postponed his deportation to wait for proof that he is fit to travel to germany .
-lrb- 21.04.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic michael lawton talks to raphael gross of the fritz bauer institute for holocaust studies about john demjanjuk nazi war crimes suspect john demjanjuk deported to germany -lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
haiti unrest haiti is on edge as angry protesters block streets and set fires to contest the election result .
watch the video learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan new web site check out deutsche welle 's new asia page in english .
dw asia online latin america take a multimedia journey discover the region and its people news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's newest media partner © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
sobibor survivor : demjanjuk trial will go down in history -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.09.2010 home news germany europe world from tierra del fuego to tijuana asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de world war ii -pipe- 13.05.2009 sobibor survivor : demjanjuk trial will go down in history großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some 250,000 jews , gypsies and political prisoners were murdered in sobibor 's gas chambers deutsche welle spoke with thomas blatt , one of few to escape from the nazi-run sobibor extermination camp .
he says he does n't care whether john demjanjuk is jailed for working at the camp , just that he tells the truth . thomas blatt was one of the few to survive the sobibor extermination camp in nazi-occupied poland during world war ii .
the 82-year-old is now a key witness in the munich trial of john demjanjuk , who is alleged to have been a guard at sobibor .
deutsche welle : why did you decide to come to germany for this trial ?
thomas blatt : because when i escaped from sobibor , i promised myself that if i survived , i will do everything to tell the story of sobibor .
and that 's what i 'm doing .
and i know that demjanjuk knows a lot , because demjanjuk was in the middle of the holocaust .
and he denies that it is him , that he was not a guard at sobibor , but he was .
i do n't care if demjanjuk is in jail or not .
i do care that he should tell the truth .
and the truth is , that he was a guard at sobibor .
sobibor was not a simple concentration camp .
sobibor was an extermination camp .
at sobibor the guards were simple murderers .
in a concentration camp a guard was a guard , … responsible -lsb- for preventing -rsb- people from running away .
but at sobibor they were simple murderers .
you said that among the guards at sobibor some were sadistic .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : demjanjuk 's wartime identification card is a major piece of evidence against him i said that they were sadistic and that some guards escaped from sobibor .
but demjanjuk did not escape .
he was there all the time with the nazis .
i do n't say that i -lsb- saw -rsb- him for sure .
-lsb- the guards -rsb- were very sadistic .
and we were more afraid of the guards than we were of the germans .
i 'm sure i know that he was a guard .
it is my duty to tell .
he should tell what sobibor was for .
what will be your reaction if there is not enough evidence to find mr. demjanjuk guilty ?
i believe that he will tell the truth , the way it was in sobibor .
and this will be part of history .
this will be -lsb- something -rsb- for the new generation to learn .
because what he has seen , few people have seen .
i strongly believe he will tell the truth .
and later demjanjuk could go free .
for me his testimony is very important , and that 's why i am in munich following demjanjuk 's story .
i am sorry in a way for demjanjuk .
he 's an old man , 89 years old .
he 's sick , he has a family .
so i 'm sorry in a way .
and i think that many people think the same way : he 's an old man , he 's suffered so much .
but i also see the other side of demjanjuk .
i see him as a terrible sadist , a murderer .
he did n't run away from his work .
interview : michael lawton editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de suspected nazi prison camp guard deported to germany the us has deported an alleged former nazi prison camp guard to germany .
jewish leaders hailed john demjanjuk 's deportation , saying they hoped it was n't too late for the 89-year-old to be brought to justice .
-lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- opinion : no statute of limitations on horrors of the holocaust after decades of judicial wrangling , the alleged nazi criminal john demjanjuk is to stand trial in germany .
on tuesday he was flown to munich and brought to a prison awaiting trial .
cornelia rabitz has this commentary : -lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- us seeks to clear path for demjanjuk deportation , again the us government has sought to clear the way to deport alleged former death camp guard john demjanjuk , just days after a us court postponed his deportation to wait for proof that he is fit to travel to germany .
-lrb- 21.04.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic michael lawton talks to raphael gross of the fritz bauer institute for holocaust studies about john demjanjuk nazi war crimes suspect john demjanjuk deported to germany -lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live discover germany we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live concert hour summer music days in hitzacker listen live international relations world bank president robert zoellick talks about the challenges of a multi-lateral world .
watch the interview learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan new web site check out deutsche welle 's new asia page in english .
dw asia online news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's newest media partner latin america take a multimedia journey discover the region and its people © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
sobibor survivor : demjanjuk trial will go down in history -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 28.03.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de world war ii -pipe- 13.05.2009 sobibor survivor : demjanjuk trial will go down in history großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some 250,000 jews , gypsies and political prisoners were murdered in sobibor 's gas chambers deutsche welle spoke with thomas blatt , one of few to escape from the nazi-run sobibor extermination camp .
he says he does n't care whether john demjanjuk is jailed for working at the camp , just that he tells the truth . thomas blatt was one of the few to survive the sobibor extermination camp in nazi-occupied poland during world war ii .
the 82-year-old is now a key witness in the munich trial of john demjanjuk , who is alleged to have been a guard at sobibor .
deutsche welle : why did you decide to come to germany for this trial ?
thomas blatt : because when i escaped from sobibor , i promised myself that if i survived , i will do everything to tell the story of sobibor .
and that 's what i 'm doing .
and i know that demjanjuk knows a lot , because demjanjuk was in the middle of the holocaust .
and he denies that it is him , that he was not a guard at sobibor , but he was .
i do n't care if demjanjuk is in jail or not .
i do care that he should tell the truth .
and the truth is , that he was a guard at sobibor .
sobibor was not a simple concentration camp .
sobibor was an extermination camp .
at sobibor the guards were simple murderers .
in a concentration camp a guard was a guard , … responsible -lsb- for preventing -rsb- people from running away .
but at sobibor they were simple murderers .
you said that among the guards at sobibor some were sadistic .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : demjanjuk 's wartime identification card is a major piece of evidence against him i said that they were sadistic and that some guards escaped from sobibor .
but demjanjuk did not escape .
he was there all the time with the nazis .
i do n't say that i -lsb- saw -rsb- him for sure .
-lsb- the guards -rsb- were very sadistic .
and we were more afraid of the guards than we were of the germans .
i 'm sure i know that he was a guard .
it is my duty to tell .
he should tell what sobibor was for .
what will be your reaction if there is not enough evidence to find mr. demjanjuk guilty ?
i believe that he will tell the truth , the way it was in sobibor .
and this will be part of history .
this will be -lsb- something -rsb- for the new generation to learn .
because what he has seen , few people have seen .
i strongly believe he will tell the truth .
and later demjanjuk could go free .
for me his testimony is very important , and that 's why i am in munich following demjanjuk 's story .
i am sorry in a way for demjanjuk .
he 's an old man , 89 years old .
he 's sick , he has a family .
so i 'm sorry in a way .
and i think that many people think the same way : he 's an old man , he 's suffered so much .
but i also see the other side of demjanjuk .
i see him as a terrible sadist , a murderer .
he did n't run away from his work .
interview : michael lawton editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de suspected nazi prison camp guard deported to germany the us has deported an alleged former nazi prison camp guard to germany .
jewish leaders hailed john demjanjuk 's deportation , saying they hoped it was n't too late for the 89-year-old to be brought to justice .
-lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- opinion : no statute of limitations on horrors of the holocaust after decades of judicial wrangling , the alleged nazi criminal john demjanjuk is to stand trial in germany .
on tuesday he was flown to munich and brought to a prison awaiting trial .
cornelia rabitz has this commentary : -lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- us seeks to clear path for demjanjuk deportation , again the us government has sought to clear the way to deport alleged former death camp guard john demjanjuk , just days after a us court postponed his deportation to wait for proof that he is fit to travel to germany .
-lrb- 21.04.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic michael lawton talks to raphael gross of the fritz bauer institute for holocaust studies about john demjanjuk nazi war crimes suspect john demjanjuk deported to germany -lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
death penalty amnesty says china and middle east countries are still the main culprits in terms of executions .
watch the video transatlantic voices expert opinion no international cooperation has been declared dead or dying as often as the european union .
international conference media representatives around the world gather in bonn to discuss human rights .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
wolfsburg , bayern and hertha win matches -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de bundesliga -pipe- 13.05.2009 wolfsburg , bayern and hertha win matches großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : wolfsburg 's grafite celebrates bundesliga leaders vfl wolfsburg and their two main challengers bayern munich and hertha berlin showed the way on tuesday as they won their midweek league matches . hertha berlin secured a 2-1 victory at cologne .
wolfsburg beat borussia dortmund 3-0 , and bayern munich scored three times in the second half en route to a 3-0 victory over bayer leverkusen .
wolfsburg and bayern are now at the top of the table with 63 points and two games remaining , with wolfsburg just two goals better than their rivals from southern germany .
hertha berlin are a point behind the two , while vfb stuttgart could move to 61 points if they win at schalke 04 on wednesday .
the other game on tuesday saw bottom club karlsruhe sc all but relegated after giving away a 2-0 lead against hanover 96 before finally losing 3-2 .
wolfsburg striking duo grafite and edin dzeko again provided the goals that kept the northern german side at the top .
dzeko opened the scoring in the 14th minute with his 21st goal of the season , before the brazilian grafite added a second goal two minutes after the restart .
dzeko scored his second goal six minutes from the end after being set up by grafite , who heads the goal scorer standings with 24 goals .
dortmund ended the game with ten men after kevin-prince boateng was sent off in the 75th minute - just eight minutes after coming on as a substitute .
wolfsburg coach felix magath said that his side wanted to do well after losing their last game at vfb stuttgart 4-1 , adding , " we went in search of goals from the word go . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : dortmund 's head coach juergen klopp klopp believes dortmund coach juergen klopp said , “ we have the quality and at the end of the day , that will come through . "
he noted that wolfsburg played very well and said , " they deserved to win .
they are a strong side and we certainly do not think that we lost badly .
at the end of the day , the number of goals scored against us , does not matter really . "
bayern wins again in munich , the visitors were denied two penalties in the first half , but could do nothing as luca toni , franck ribery and lukas podolski scored the goals that kept bayern in the hunt for a 22nd german championship .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : jupp heynckes bayern has now won the last three games under new coach jupp heynckes , who took over when juergen klinsmann was sacked .
he changed the team on a few positions and gave germany striker podolski , who spent most of the time on the bench under klinsmann , a starting place .
podolski , who scored one goal and set up the others , saying , " we did well as a team and trained well .
i think you can see that on the field .
the new coach gave me the trust and played me from the beginning and i tried to repay him on the field . "
bayern manager uli hoeness said that his side could have won by a higher score .
" we decided not to tell the players what the other scores were and i still do not think that the championship will be decided on goal difference .
one team will still slip up . "
cicero gave berlin the lead in cologne three minutes from the break , before patrick ebert added a second midway through the second half with a shot that took a wicked deflection .
adil chihi pulled one back for cologne late in the game with his first-ever bundesliga goal .
karlsruhe looked on course for an important victory against hanover after alexander lashvili and lars stindl gave the home side a 2-0 lead after just 32 minutes .
however , sergio pinto and mikael forssell equalized matters before the break and hanno balitsch found a winner for hanover at the end of 64 minutes .
karlsruhe are last in the table with just 23 points and could be relegated on wednesday if three of the four teams directly above them win . av / ai / dpa / ap send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de wolfsburg on course for first-ever bundesliga title wolfsburg remain on target thrashing hoffenheim 4-0 as bayern win their first match in post-klinsmann era with four matches to play this season .
-lrb- 02.05.2009 -rrb- bremen ends hamburg hopes for bundesliga title bremen once again outclassed hamburg when they beat their northern german rivals 2-0 in a bundesliga match on sunday , all but killing off the side 's hopes for a league title .
-lrb- 10.05.2009 -rrb- gomez scores four as stuttgart thrashes wolfsburg mario gomez scored all four goals to take vfb stuttgart to a stunning 4-1 victory over bundesliga leaders vfl wolfsburg on saturday .
defending champions bayern munich won 3-1 against energie cottbus .
-lrb- 09.05.2009 -rrb- 9797 dw-tv europe live made in germany - the business magazine we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live pulse listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-radio listen to the latest from german soccer on dw-radio .
sports report anti-racism girls wanted : scouting for germany 's next generation of female football talent listen to the audio art women 's football - a source of inspiration watch the video video women 's soccer is more popular than ever in the us .
watch the video final standings click here for the final 2010-11 bundesliga table . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
van gaal to become next bayern munich coach -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 29.03.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de soccer -pipe- 13.05.2009 van gaal to become next bayern munich coach großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : futuer bayern munich head coach louis van gaal bayern munich are set to sign dutch coach louis van gaal ending weeks of speculation over who will be in charge of the bundesliga soccer club next season . bayern munich have confirmed that dutch coach louis van gaal will join the defending bundesliga champions as head coach on a two-year contract as of july 1 .
he is to replace interim coach jupp heynkes , who took over after juergen klinsmann was fired last month .
the coach who has led az alkmaar to their first dutch league title since 1981 , had been bayern 's first choice for the job . other managers under consideration are said to have included inter manager jose mourinho and arsenal 's arsene wenger .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bayern chairman karl-heinz rummenigge munich pleased with choice " we are happy that in louis van gaal we have managed to secure such an experienced and successful coach for bayern munich , " said bayern chairman karl-heinz rummenigge in a statement posted on the club 's website on wednesday .
having steered ajax to the champions league title in 1995 , van gaal , 57 , has a wealth of experience having also led the giants from amsterdam to consecutive dutch titles in 1994 , 1995 and 1996 .
after leading barcelona to back-to-back spanish league titles in 1998 and 1999 , the only blip in an otherwise exceptional career was when he took charge of the netherlands in 2000 .
when the dutch failed to reach the world cup finals in japan and south korea in 2002 , he was replaced by dick advocaat .
van gaal inherits a squad that is level on points with bundesliga leaders wolfsburg with two games remaining in the season .
he is expected to be closely involved in transfer decisions at the end of this season .
in return for alkmaar agreeing to release van gaal before his contract expires , bayern have agreed to play a friendly against alkmaar in the summer of 2010 without charging a fee . nt / pfd , sid / reuters / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer on dw-radio .
sports report scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia mönchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
van gaal to become next bayern munich coach -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de soccer -pipe- 13.05.2009 van gaal to become next bayern munich coach großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : futuer bayern munich head coach louis van gaal bayern munich are set to sign dutch coach louis van gaal ending weeks of speculation over who will be in charge of the bundesliga soccer club next season . bayern munich have confirmed that dutch coach louis van gaal will join the defending bundesliga champions as head coach on a two-year contract as of july 1 .
he is to replace interim coach jupp heynkes , who took over after juergen klinsmann was fired last month .
the coach who has led az alkmaar to their first dutch league title since 1981 , had been bayern 's first choice for the job . other managers under consideration are said to have included inter manager jose mourinho and arsenal 's arsene wenger .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bayern chairman karl-heinz rummenigge munich pleased with choice " we are happy that in louis van gaal we have managed to secure such an experienced and successful coach for bayern munich , " said bayern chairman karl-heinz rummenigge in a statement posted on the club 's website on wednesday .
having steered ajax to the champions league title in 1995 , van gaal , 57 , has a wealth of experience having also led the giants from amsterdam to consecutive dutch titles in 1994 , 1995 and 1996 .
after leading barcelona to back-to-back spanish league titles in 1998 and 1999 , the only blip in an otherwise exceptional career was when he took charge of the netherlands in 2000 .
when the dutch failed to reach the world cup finals in japan and south korea in 2002 , he was replaced by dick advocaat .
van gaal inherits a squad that is level on points with bundesliga leaders wolfsburg with two games remaining in the season .
he is expected to be closely involved in transfer decisions at the end of this season .
in return for alkmaar agreeing to release van gaal before his contract expires , bayern have agreed to play a friendly against alkmaar in the summer of 2010 without charging a fee . nt / pfd , sid / reuters / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live concert hour ard international music competition , part one listen live bundesliga predictions bumpy progress dw 's soccer pundits are having their bumps felt in an attempt to predict match day 15 results .
dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report high scorer freiburg 's papiss demba cisse opens up to dw-tv 's bundesliga kick off ! about his goalscoring ways .
watch the report scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results at a glance .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia moenchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
van gaal to become next bayern munich coach -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 14.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de soccer -pipe- 13.05.2009 van gaal to become next bayern munich coach großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : futuer bayern munich head coach louis van gaal bayern munich are set to sign dutch coach louis van gaal ending weeks of speculation over who will be in charge of the bundesliga soccer club next season . bayern munich have confirmed that dutch coach louis van gaal will join the defending bundesliga champions as head coach on a two-year contract as of july 1 .
he is to replace interim coach jupp heynkes , who took over after juergen klinsmann was fired last month .
the coach who has led az alkmaar to their first dutch league title since 1981 , had been bayern 's first choice for the job . other managers under consideration are said to have included inter manager jose mourinho and arsenal 's arsene wenger .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bayern chairman karl-heinz rummenigge munich pleased with choice " we are happy that in louis van gaal we have managed to secure such an experienced and successful coach for bayern munich , " said bayern chairman karl-heinz rummenigge in a statement posted on the club 's website on wednesday .
having steered ajax to the champions league title in 1995 , van gaal , 57 , has a wealth of experience having also led the giants from amsterdam to consecutive dutch titles in 1994 , 1995 and 1996 .
after leading barcelona to back-to-back spanish league titles in 1998 and 1999 , the only blip in an otherwise exceptional career was when he took charge of the netherlands in 2000 .
when the dutch failed to reach the world cup finals in japan and south korea in 2002 , he was replaced by dick advocaat .
van gaal inherits a squad that is level on points with bundesliga leaders wolfsburg with two games remaining in the season .
he is expected to be closely involved in transfer decisions at the end of this season .
in return for alkmaar agreeing to release van gaal before his contract expires , bayern have agreed to play a friendly against alkmaar in the summer of 2010 without charging a fee . nt / pfd , sid / reuters / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 dw-tv europe live in good shape we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inside europe listen live dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report high scorer freiburg 's papiss demba cisse opens up to dw-tv 's bundesliga kick off ! about his goalscoring ways .
watch the report scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results at a glance .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia moenchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
van gaal to become next bayern munich coach -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de soccer -pipe- 13.05.2009 van gaal to become next bayern munich coach großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : futuer bayern munich head coach louis van gaal bayern munich are set to sign dutch coach louis van gaal ending weeks of speculation over who will be in charge of the bundesliga soccer club next season . bayern munich have confirmed that dutch coach louis van gaal will join the defending bundesliga champions as head coach on a two-year contract as of july 1 .
he is to replace interim coach jupp heynkes , who took over after juergen klinsmann was fired last month .
the coach who has led az alkmaar to their first dutch league title since 1981 , had been bayern 's first choice for the job . other managers under consideration are said to have included inter manager jose mourinho and arsenal 's arsene wenger .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bayern chairman karl-heinz rummenigge munich pleased with choice " we are happy that in louis van gaal we have managed to secure such an experienced and successful coach for bayern munich , " said bayern chairman karl-heinz rummenigge in a statement posted on the club 's website on wednesday .
having steered ajax to the champions league title in 1995 , van gaal , 57 , has a wealth of experience having also led the giants from amsterdam to consecutive dutch titles in 1994 , 1995 and 1996 .
after leading barcelona to back-to-back spanish league titles in 1998 and 1999 , the only blip in an otherwise exceptional career was when he took charge of the netherlands in 2000 .
when the dutch failed to reach the world cup finals in japan and south korea in 2002 , he was replaced by dick advocaat .
van gaal inherits a squad that is level on points with bundesliga leaders wolfsburg with two games remaining in the season .
he is expected to be closely involved in transfer decisions at the end of this season .
in return for alkmaar agreeing to release van gaal before his contract expires , bayern have agreed to play a friendly against alkmaar in the summer of 2010 without charging a fee . nt / pfd , sid / reuters / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 dw-tv europe live arts.21 we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live in-box feedback from around the world listen live dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report bundesliga predictions bundesliga picks dw 's experts consult the football stars in a bid to predict the bundesliga match day eight results .
scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results at a glance .
dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia moenchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
van gaal to become next bayern munich coach -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 15.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de soccer -pipe- 13.05.2009 van gaal to become next bayern munich coach großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : futuer bayern munich head coach louis van gaal bayern munich are set to sign dutch coach louis van gaal ending weeks of speculation over who will be in charge of the bundesliga soccer club next season . bayern munich have confirmed that dutch coach louis van gaal will join the defending bundesliga champions as head coach on a two-year contract as of july 1 .
he is to replace interim coach jupp heynkes , who took over after juergen klinsmann was fired last month .
the coach who has led az alkmaar to their first dutch league title since 1981 , had been bayern 's first choice for the job . other managers under consideration are said to have included inter manager jose mourinho and arsenal 's arsene wenger .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bayern chairman karl-heinz rummenigge munich pleased with choice " we are happy that in louis van gaal we have managed to secure such an experienced and successful coach for bayern munich , " said bayern chairman karl-heinz rummenigge in a statement posted on the club 's website on wednesday .
having steered ajax to the champions league title in 1995 , van gaal , 57 , has a wealth of experience having also led the giants from amsterdam to consecutive dutch titles in 1994 , 1995 and 1996 .
after leading barcelona to back-to-back spanish league titles in 1998 and 1999 , the only blip in an otherwise exceptional career was when he took charge of the netherlands in 2000 .
when the dutch failed to reach the world cup finals in japan and south korea in 2002 , he was replaced by dick advocaat .
van gaal inherits a squad that is level on points with bundesliga leaders wolfsburg with two games remaining in the season .
he is expected to be closely involved in transfer decisions at the end of this season .
in return for alkmaar agreeing to release van gaal before his contract expires , bayern have agreed to play a friendly against alkmaar in the summer of 2010 without charging a fee . nt / pfd , sid / reuters / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live pulse listen live dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report new feature week three picks dw sports sizes up the week three match-ups in the bundesliga .
and hopes to pick a couple right .
scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results at a glance .
dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia moenchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
french lawmakers to pull the plug on internet pirates -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 29.03.2011 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de internet -pipe- 13.05.2009 french lawmakers to pull the plug on internet pirates großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : sarkozy championed the new legislation france has passed a bill that will let authorities track illegal downloading over the internet and disconnect repeat offenders .
opponents are critical of the law , arguing that access to the web is a fundamental right . the french senate on wednesday overwhelmingly voted into law a controversial measure that will cut off internet access to people who repeatedly download copyrighted music , films or video games without paying .
the vote , which had already passed the lower house by a narrow margin on tuesday , represents a success for president nicolas sarkozy , who championed the groundbreaking law .
the opposition socialists alienated many of their traditional supporters in the arts world by fighting the move .
the legislation aims to protect the revenues of record and film companies and recording artists .
after two warnings pirates will be cut off the tough new laws would punish music download pirates by shutting off their internet access for up to a year .
under the terms of the bill , internet pirates will receive two warnings , but their internet connection will be cut after the third offence .
during the time they are disconnected , they will have to continue paying their internet provider .
the music and film industries in france and abroad have shown wide support for the bill , but consumer groups and the socialist opposition have warned it would be difficult to implement .
opponents have criticized the penalties , and say access to the internet should be a fundamental right .
consumer groups said they feared intrusive monitoring of online activity and warn that innocent users may be unfairly punished if hackers use their accounts to download files .
the new law 's introduction onto the statute books is likely to be delayed by at least a month .
opponents have promised to challenge the legislation in france 's top court . ch / ncy / afp / reuters send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de major german online companies agree to block child porn websites german internet providers have grudgingly agreed to block websites containing child pornography .
critics say their deal with the government wo n't make much of a difference .
-lrb- 17.04.2009 -rrb- german artists defend copyright in google era google might reign as the unchallenged king of german search engines , but a lawsuit over the company 's popular image search feature brings into question the rights of german artists in the internet age .
-lrb- 21.10.2008 -rrb- new data law could benefit music pirates germany 's music industry fears that a new telephone data law could become a carte blanche for internet users , who download tunes illegally .
until now , they 've traced music pirates with the help of phone records .
-lrb- 30.03.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live hits in germany the latest from germany 's top 100 ... and more !
listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
italians hard hit by plastic bag ban east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
wolfsburg , bayern and hertha win matches -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 05.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de bundesliga -pipe- 13.05.2009 wolfsburg , bayern and hertha win matches großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : wolfsburg 's grafite celebrates bundesliga leaders vfl wolfsburg and their two main challengers bayern munich and hertha berlin showed the way on tuesday as they won their midweek league matches . hertha berlin secured a 2-1 victory at cologne .
wolfsburg beat borussia dortmund 3-0 , and bayern munich scored three times in the second half en route to a 3-0 victory over bayer leverkusen .
wolfsburg and bayern are now at the top of the table with 63 points and two games remaining , with wolfsburg just two goals better than their rivals from southern germany .
hertha berlin are a point behind the two , while vfb stuttgart could move to 61 points if they win at schalke 04 on wednesday .
the other game on tuesday saw bottom club karlsruhe sc all but relegated after giving away a 2-0 lead against hanover 96 before finally losing 3-2 .
wolfsburg striking duo grafite and edin dzeko again provided the goals that kept the northern german side at the top .
dzeko opened the scoring in the 14th minute with his 21st goal of the season , before the brazilian grafite added a second goal two minutes after the restart .
dzeko scored his second goal six minutes from the end after being set up by grafite , who heads the goal scorer standings with 24 goals .
dortmund ended the game with ten men after kevin-prince boateng was sent off in the 75th minute - just eight minutes after coming on as a substitute .
wolfsburg coach felix magath said that his side wanted to do well after losing their last game at vfb stuttgart 4-1 , adding , " we went in search of goals from the word go . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : dortmund 's head coach juergen klopp klopp believes dortmund coach juergen klopp said , “ we have the quality and at the end of the day , that will come through . "
he noted that wolfsburg played very well and said , " they deserved to win .
they are a strong side and we certainly do not think that we lost badly .
at the end of the day , the number of goals scored against us , does not matter really . "
bayern wins again in munich , the visitors were denied two penalties in the first half , but could do nothing as luca toni , franck ribery and lukas podolski scored the goals that kept bayern in the hunt for a 22nd german championship .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : jupp heynckes bayern has now won the last three games under new coach jupp heynckes , who took over when juergen klinsmann was sacked .
he changed the team on a few positions and gave germany striker podolski , who spent most of the time on the bench under klinsmann , a starting place .
podolski , who scored one goal and set up the others , saying , " we did well as a team and trained well .
i think you can see that on the field .
the new coach gave me the trust and played me from the beginning and i tried to repay him on the field . "
bayern manager uli hoeness said that his side could have won by a higher score .
" we decided not to tell the players what the other scores were and i still do not think that the championship will be decided on goal difference .
one team will still slip up . "
cicero gave berlin the lead in cologne three minutes from the break , before patrick ebert added a second midway through the second half with a shot that took a wicked deflection .
adil chihi pulled one back for cologne late in the game with his first-ever bundesliga goal .
karlsruhe looked on course for an important victory against hanover after alexander lashvili and lars stindl gave the home side a 2-0 lead after just 32 minutes .
however , sergio pinto and mikael forssell equalized matters before the break and hanno balitsch found a winner for hanover at the end of 64 minutes .
karlsruhe are last in the table with just 23 points and could be relegated on wednesday if three of the four teams directly above them win . av / ai / dpa / ap send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de wolfsburg on course for first-ever bundesliga title wolfsburg remain on target thrashing hoffenheim 4-0 as bayern win their first match in post-klinsmann era with four matches to play this season .
-lrb- 02.05.2009 -rrb- bremen ends hamburg hopes for bundesliga title bremen once again outclassed hamburg when they beat their northern german rivals 2-0 in a bundesliga match on sunday , all but killing off the side 's hopes for a league title .
-lrb- 10.05.2009 -rrb- gomez scores four as stuttgart thrashes wolfsburg mario gomez scored all four goals to take vfb stuttgart to a stunning 4-1 victory over bundesliga leaders vfl wolfsburg on saturday .
defending champions bayern munich won 3-1 against energie cottbus .
-lrb- 09.05.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results at a glance .
dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia moenchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg players bremen and peru 's claudio pizarro talks on becoming the top foreign scorer in bundesliga history .
watch the report © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
wolfsburg , bayern and hertha win matches -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de bundesliga -pipe- 13.05.2009 wolfsburg , bayern and hertha win matches großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : wolfsburg 's grafite celebrates bundesliga leaders vfl wolfsburg and their two main challengers bayern munich and hertha berlin showed the way on tuesday as they won their midweek league matches . hertha berlin secured a 2-1 victory at cologne .
wolfsburg beat borussia dortmund 3-0 , and bayern munich scored three times in the second half en route to a 3-0 victory over bayer leverkusen .
wolfsburg and bayern are now at the top of the table with 63 points and two games remaining , with wolfsburg just two goals better than their rivals from southern germany .
hertha berlin are a point behind the two , while vfb stuttgart could move to 61 points if they win at schalke 04 on wednesday .
the other game on tuesday saw bottom club karlsruhe sc all but relegated after giving away a 2-0 lead against hanover 96 before finally losing 3-2 .
wolfsburg striking duo grafite and edin dzeko again provided the goals that kept the northern german side at the top .
dzeko opened the scoring in the 14th minute with his 21st goal of the season , before the brazilian grafite added a second goal two minutes after the restart .
dzeko scored his second goal six minutes from the end after being set up by grafite , who heads the goal scorer standings with 24 goals .
dortmund ended the game with ten men after kevin-prince boateng was sent off in the 75th minute - just eight minutes after coming on as a substitute .
wolfsburg coach felix magath said that his side wanted to do well after losing their last game at vfb stuttgart 4-1 , adding , " we went in search of goals from the word go . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : dortmund 's head coach juergen klopp klopp believes dortmund coach juergen klopp said , “ we have the quality and at the end of the day , that will come through . "
he noted that wolfsburg played very well and said , " they deserved to win .
they are a strong side and we certainly do not think that we lost badly .
at the end of the day , the number of goals scored against us , does not matter really . "
bayern wins again in munich , the visitors were denied two penalties in the first half , but could do nothing as luca toni , franck ribery and lukas podolski scored the goals that kept bayern in the hunt for a 22nd german championship .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : jupp heynckes bayern has now won the last three games under new coach jupp heynckes , who took over when juergen klinsmann was sacked .
he changed the team on a few positions and gave germany striker podolski , who spent most of the time on the bench under klinsmann , a starting place .
podolski , who scored one goal and set up the others , saying , " we did well as a team and trained well .
i think you can see that on the field .
the new coach gave me the trust and played me from the beginning and i tried to repay him on the field . "
bayern manager uli hoeness said that his side could have won by a higher score .
" we decided not to tell the players what the other scores were and i still do not think that the championship will be decided on goal difference .
one team will still slip up . "
cicero gave berlin the lead in cologne three minutes from the break , before patrick ebert added a second midway through the second half with a shot that took a wicked deflection .
adil chihi pulled one back for cologne late in the game with his first-ever bundesliga goal .
karlsruhe looked on course for an important victory against hanover after alexander lashvili and lars stindl gave the home side a 2-0 lead after just 32 minutes .
however , sergio pinto and mikael forssell equalized matters before the break and hanno balitsch found a winner for hanover at the end of 64 minutes .
karlsruhe are last in the table with just 23 points and could be relegated on wednesday if three of the four teams directly above them win . av / ai / dpa / ap send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de wolfsburg on course for first-ever bundesliga title wolfsburg remain on target thrashing hoffenheim 4-0 as bayern win their first match in post-klinsmann era with four matches to play this season .
-lrb- 02.05.2009 -rrb- bremen ends hamburg hopes for bundesliga title bremen once again outclassed hamburg when they beat their northern german rivals 2-0 in a bundesliga match on sunday , all but killing off the side 's hopes for a league title .
-lrb- 10.05.2009 -rrb- gomez scores four as stuttgart thrashes wolfsburg mario gomez scored all four goals to take vfb stuttgart to a stunning 4-1 victory over bundesliga leaders vfl wolfsburg on saturday .
defending champions bayern munich won 3-1 against energie cottbus .
-lrb- 09.05.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 dw-tv europe live im focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live arts on the air listen live dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report high scorer freiburg 's papiss demba cisse opens up to dw-tv 's bundesliga kick off ! about his goalscoring ways .
watch the report scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results at a glance .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia moenchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
wolfsburg , bayern and hertha win matches -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 17.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de bundesliga -pipe- 13.05.2009 wolfsburg , bayern and hertha win matches großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : wolfsburg 's grafite celebrates bundesliga leaders vfl wolfsburg and their two main challengers bayern munich and hertha berlin showed the way on tuesday as they won their midweek league matches . hertha berlin secured a 2-1 victory at cologne .
wolfsburg beat borussia dortmund 3-0 , and bayern munich scored three times in the second half en route to a 3-0 victory over bayer leverkusen .
wolfsburg and bayern are now at the top of the table with 63 points and two games remaining , with wolfsburg just two goals better than their rivals from southern germany .
hertha berlin are a point behind the two , while vfb stuttgart could move to 61 points if they win at schalke 04 on wednesday .
the other game on tuesday saw bottom club karlsruhe sc all but relegated after giving away a 2-0 lead against hanover 96 before finally losing 3-2 .
wolfsburg striking duo grafite and edin dzeko again provided the goals that kept the northern german side at the top .
dzeko opened the scoring in the 14th minute with his 21st goal of the season , before the brazilian grafite added a second goal two minutes after the restart .
dzeko scored his second goal six minutes from the end after being set up by grafite , who heads the goal scorer standings with 24 goals .
dortmund ended the game with ten men after kevin-prince boateng was sent off in the 75th minute - just eight minutes after coming on as a substitute .
wolfsburg coach felix magath said that his side wanted to do well after losing their last game at vfb stuttgart 4-1 , adding , " we went in search of goals from the word go . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : dortmund 's head coach juergen klopp klopp believes dortmund coach juergen klopp said , “ we have the quality and at the end of the day , that will come through . "
he noted that wolfsburg played very well and said , " they deserved to win .
they are a strong side and we certainly do not think that we lost badly .
at the end of the day , the number of goals scored against us , does not matter really . "
bayern wins again in munich , the visitors were denied two penalties in the first half , but could do nothing as luca toni , franck ribery and lukas podolski scored the goals that kept bayern in the hunt for a 22nd german championship .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : jupp heynckes bayern has now won the last three games under new coach jupp heynckes , who took over when juergen klinsmann was sacked .
he changed the team on a few positions and gave germany striker podolski , who spent most of the time on the bench under klinsmann , a starting place .
podolski , who scored one goal and set up the others , saying , " we did well as a team and trained well .
i think you can see that on the field .
the new coach gave me the trust and played me from the beginning and i tried to repay him on the field . "
bayern manager uli hoeness said that his side could have won by a higher score .
" we decided not to tell the players what the other scores were and i still do not think that the championship will be decided on goal difference .
one team will still slip up . "
cicero gave berlin the lead in cologne three minutes from the break , before patrick ebert added a second midway through the second half with a shot that took a wicked deflection .
adil chihi pulled one back for cologne late in the game with his first-ever bundesliga goal .
karlsruhe looked on course for an important victory against hanover after alexander lashvili and lars stindl gave the home side a 2-0 lead after just 32 minutes .
however , sergio pinto and mikael forssell equalized matters before the break and hanno balitsch found a winner for hanover at the end of 64 minutes .
karlsruhe are last in the table with just 23 points and could be relegated on wednesday if three of the four teams directly above them win . av / ai / dpa / ap send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de wolfsburg on course for first-ever bundesliga title wolfsburg remain on target thrashing hoffenheim 4-0 as bayern win their first match in post-klinsmann era with four matches to play this season .
-lrb- 02.05.2009 -rrb- bremen ends hamburg hopes for bundesliga title bremen once again outclassed hamburg when they beat their northern german rivals 2-0 in a bundesliga match on sunday , all but killing off the side 's hopes for a league title .
-lrb- 10.05.2009 -rrb- gomez scores four as stuttgart thrashes wolfsburg mario gomez scored all four goals to take vfb stuttgart to a stunning 4-1 victory over bundesliga leaders vfl wolfsburg on saturday .
defending champions bayern munich won 3-1 against energie cottbus .
-lrb- 09.05.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 dw-tv europe live popxport we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inside europe listen live dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report bundesliga predictions week four picks dw sports sizes up the week four match-ups in the bundesliga .
and hopes to pick a couple right .
scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results at a glance .
dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia moenchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
wolfsburg , bayern and hertha win matches -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de bundesliga -pipe- 13.05.2009 wolfsburg , bayern and hertha win matches großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : wolfsburg 's grafite celebrates bundesliga leaders vfl wolfsburg and their two main challengers bayern munich and hertha berlin showed the way on tuesday as they won their midweek league matches . hertha berlin secured a 2-1 victory at cologne .
wolfsburg beat borussia dortmund 3-0 , and bayern munich scored three times in the second half en route to a 3-0 victory over bayer leverkusen .
wolfsburg and bayern are now at the top of the table with 63 points and two games remaining , with wolfsburg just two goals better than their rivals from southern germany .
hertha berlin are a point behind the two , while vfb stuttgart could move to 61 points if they win at schalke 04 on wednesday .
the other game on tuesday saw bottom club karlsruhe sc all but relegated after giving away a 2-0 lead against hanover 96 before finally losing 3-2 .
wolfsburg striking duo grafite and edin dzeko again provided the goals that kept the northern german side at the top .
dzeko opened the scoring in the 14th minute with his 21st goal of the season , before the brazilian grafite added a second goal two minutes after the restart .
dzeko scored his second goal six minutes from the end after being set up by grafite , who heads the goal scorer standings with 24 goals .
dortmund ended the game with ten men after kevin-prince boateng was sent off in the 75th minute - just eight minutes after coming on as a substitute .
wolfsburg coach felix magath said that his side wanted to do well after losing their last game at vfb stuttgart 4-1 , adding , " we went in search of goals from the word go . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : dortmund 's head coach juergen klopp klopp believes dortmund coach juergen klopp said , “ we have the quality and at the end of the day , that will come through . "
he noted that wolfsburg played very well and said , " they deserved to win .
they are a strong side and we certainly do not think that we lost badly .
at the end of the day , the number of goals scored against us , does not matter really . "
bayern wins again in munich , the visitors were denied two penalties in the first half , but could do nothing as luca toni , franck ribery and lukas podolski scored the goals that kept bayern in the hunt for a 22nd german championship .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : jupp heynckes bayern has now won the last three games under new coach jupp heynckes , who took over when juergen klinsmann was sacked .
he changed the team on a few positions and gave germany striker podolski , who spent most of the time on the bench under klinsmann , a starting place .
podolski , who scored one goal and set up the others , saying , " we did well as a team and trained well .
i think you can see that on the field .
the new coach gave me the trust and played me from the beginning and i tried to repay him on the field . "
bayern manager uli hoeness said that his side could have won by a higher score .
" we decided not to tell the players what the other scores were and i still do not think that the championship will be decided on goal difference .
one team will still slip up . "
cicero gave berlin the lead in cologne three minutes from the break , before patrick ebert added a second midway through the second half with a shot that took a wicked deflection .
adil chihi pulled one back for cologne late in the game with his first-ever bundesliga goal .
karlsruhe looked on course for an important victory against hanover after alexander lashvili and lars stindl gave the home side a 2-0 lead after just 32 minutes .
however , sergio pinto and mikael forssell equalized matters before the break and hanno balitsch found a winner for hanover at the end of 64 minutes .
karlsruhe are last in the table with just 23 points and could be relegated on wednesday if three of the four teams directly above them win . av / ai / dpa / ap send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de wolfsburg on course for first-ever bundesliga title wolfsburg remain on target thrashing hoffenheim 4-0 as bayern win their first match in post-klinsmann era with four matches to play this season .
-lrb- 02.05.2009 -rrb- bremen ends hamburg hopes for bundesliga title bremen once again outclassed hamburg when they beat their northern german rivals 2-0 in a bundesliga match on sunday , all but killing off the side 's hopes for a league title .
-lrb- 10.05.2009 -rrb- gomez scores four as stuttgart thrashes wolfsburg mario gomez scored all four goals to take vfb stuttgart to a stunning 4-1 victory over bundesliga leaders vfl wolfsburg on saturday .
defending champions bayern munich won 3-1 against energie cottbus .
-lrb- 09.05.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live sports report listen live bundesliga predictions bumpy progress dw 's soccer pundits are having their bumps felt in an attempt to predict match day 15 results .
dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report high scorer freiburg 's papiss demba cisse opens up to dw-tv 's bundesliga kick off ! about his goalscoring ways .
watch the report scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results at a glance .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia moenchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
wolfsburg , bayern and hertha win matches -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 28.03.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de bundesliga -pipe- 13.05.2009 wolfsburg , bayern and hertha win matches großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : wolfsburg 's grafite celebrates bundesliga leaders vfl wolfsburg and their two main challengers bayern munich and hertha berlin showed the way on tuesday as they won their midweek league matches . hertha berlin secured a 2-1 victory at cologne .
wolfsburg beat borussia dortmund 3-0 , and bayern munich scored three times in the second half en route to a 3-0 victory over bayer leverkusen .
wolfsburg and bayern are now at the top of the table with 63 points and two games remaining , with wolfsburg just two goals better than their rivals from southern germany .
hertha berlin are a point behind the two , while vfb stuttgart could move to 61 points if they win at schalke 04 on wednesday .
the other game on tuesday saw bottom club karlsruhe sc all but relegated after giving away a 2-0 lead against hanover 96 before finally losing 3-2 .
wolfsburg striking duo grafite and edin dzeko again provided the goals that kept the northern german side at the top .
dzeko opened the scoring in the 14th minute with his 21st goal of the season , before the brazilian grafite added a second goal two minutes after the restart .
dzeko scored his second goal six minutes from the end after being set up by grafite , who heads the goal scorer standings with 24 goals .
dortmund ended the game with ten men after kevin-prince boateng was sent off in the 75th minute - just eight minutes after coming on as a substitute .
wolfsburg coach felix magath said that his side wanted to do well after losing their last game at vfb stuttgart 4-1 , adding , " we went in search of goals from the word go . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : dortmund 's head coach juergen klopp klopp believes dortmund coach juergen klopp said , “ we have the quality and at the end of the day , that will come through . "
he noted that wolfsburg played very well and said , " they deserved to win .
they are a strong side and we certainly do not think that we lost badly .
at the end of the day , the number of goals scored against us , does not matter really . "
bayern wins again in munich , the visitors were denied two penalties in the first half , but could do nothing as luca toni , franck ribery and lukas podolski scored the goals that kept bayern in the hunt for a 22nd german championship .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : jupp heynckes bayern has now won the last three games under new coach jupp heynckes , who took over when juergen klinsmann was sacked .
he changed the team on a few positions and gave germany striker podolski , who spent most of the time on the bench under klinsmann , a starting place .
podolski , who scored one goal and set up the others , saying , " we did well as a team and trained well .
i think you can see that on the field .
the new coach gave me the trust and played me from the beginning and i tried to repay him on the field . "
bayern manager uli hoeness said that his side could have won by a higher score .
" we decided not to tell the players what the other scores were and i still do not think that the championship will be decided on goal difference .
one team will still slip up . "
cicero gave berlin the lead in cologne three minutes from the break , before patrick ebert added a second midway through the second half with a shot that took a wicked deflection .
adil chihi pulled one back for cologne late in the game with his first-ever bundesliga goal .
karlsruhe looked on course for an important victory against hanover after alexander lashvili and lars stindl gave the home side a 2-0 lead after just 32 minutes .
however , sergio pinto and mikael forssell equalized matters before the break and hanno balitsch found a winner for hanover at the end of 64 minutes .
karlsruhe are last in the table with just 23 points and could be relegated on wednesday if three of the four teams directly above them win . av / ai / dpa / ap send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de wolfsburg on course for first-ever bundesliga title wolfsburg remain on target thrashing hoffenheim 4-0 as bayern win their first match in post-klinsmann era with four matches to play this season .
-lrb- 02.05.2009 -rrb- bremen ends hamburg hopes for bundesliga title bremen once again outclassed hamburg when they beat their northern german rivals 2-0 in a bundesliga match on sunday , all but killing off the side 's hopes for a league title .
-lrb- 10.05.2009 -rrb- gomez scores four as stuttgart thrashes wolfsburg mario gomez scored all four goals to take vfb stuttgart to a stunning 4-1 victory over bundesliga leaders vfl wolfsburg on saturday .
defending champions bayern munich won 3-1 against energie cottbus .
-lrb- 09.05.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer on dw-radio .
sports report scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia mönchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
cannes rolls out the world 's most famous red carpet once again -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 30.03.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de film -pipe- 13.05.2009 cannes rolls out the world 's most famous red carpet once again großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : in a cannes first , an animated film opened the festival each may , a festival held on the french riviera draws a collection of the world 's leading cinema minds from all corners of the globe : the cannes film festival .
this year 's edition kicked off on wednesday . the 62nd gathering of cinema 's elite in the resort town of cannes , which sits on france 's mediterranean coast , remains one of the world 's most esteemed and prestigious film festivals .
to win the coveted palme d 'or prize for best film at cannes could be described as a crowning achievement for any producer , director , actor or film studio involved in the production .
unlike other well-known film festivals , such as those in berlin and venice , the focus at cannes is usually on aesthetics : beautiful cinema .
though this year 's 20 entries take on more brutal tones .
this includes american quentin tarantino 's ultra-violent " inglourious basterds , " about a group of bloodthirsty nazi hunters , and korean park chan wook 's priest-turned-vampire flick " bak-jwi " -lrb- " thirst " -rrb- , which has already been racing up the movie charts in his home country .
maverick danish director lars von trier also raises the horror notch this year with his " antichrist , " in which willem dafoe and charlotte gainsbourg find themselves confronting their inner fears and some dark forces in a deserted cabin in the woods .
bildunterschrift : german director wim wenders ' film " paris , texas " is a past winner at cannes german co-production this year also sees a motion picture from germany-born director michael haneke , who directed the 2001 palme d 'or-winning film " the piano teacher . "
his latest cannes entry , " das weisse band " -lrb- " the white ribbon " -rrb- , is set in a village in protestant northern germany in 1913 .
haneke 's tale recreates a country on the eve of world war i , told through the lives of members of a youth choir run by the village school teacher and their families .
little more has been written about the film , the result of haneke 's strict policy of silence in the lead up to his films ' openings .
the film was a joint production between studios in germany , france , austria and italy .
if " the white ribbon " finds success at cannes this year , it would not be the first german co-production to make a name for itself at the festival .
in 1979 , volker schloendorff 's screen adaptation of " die blechtrommel " -lrb- " the tin drum " -rrb- took the top prize , as did wim wenders ' 1984 film " paris , texas . "
new and old faces bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : de niro will always be remembered for his leading role in " taxi driver " these films went on to become part of cinematic history , as do most palme d 'or winners .
this venerated list includes francis ford coppola 's " apocalypse now , " bunuel 's " viridiana , " visconti 's " the leopard " and scorsese 's " taxi driver . "
this year , all eyes will be on 3-d comedy " up " from us director pete docter , which is the first animated film to open the 12-day festival .
the story features an old man who ties balloons to his house in the hope of fulfilling a boyhood dream of flying to south america .
meanwhile , a man bent on avenging the death of his daughter in hong kong director jonnie to 's " vengeance " is also screening , and seven years after shaking up a storm in cannes with his story of rape in " irreversible , " france 's gaspar noe is back at the festival with " enter the void " about a brutal murder .
belt tightening bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the glitterati wo n't be stopped by the financial crisis with the economic crisis having cut a swathe through the world film industry over the last year , filmmakers from hollywood through to bollywood have faced cost-cutting , studio layoffs and an ever more cautious army of producers and movie financiers .
already signs have emerged that the motion picture business has scaled back plans for the lavish parties and extravagant promotional events that have always been a feature of the festival .
but all bets are that whatever the economic climate , this year 's gathering is still likely to celebrate movie-making and the cult of the celebrity with considerable style and flair . dfm / pfd / dpa / afp / reuters send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de germany 's film industry celebrates banner year in 2008 german productions contributed decisively to a banner year in the nation 's film industry in 2008 , continuing last year 's upbeat trend .
-lrb- 05.02.2009 -rrb- lights , camera , action for kosslick as berlinale approaches armed with a mischievous smile and twinkling eyes , dieter kosslick revels in his role as the director of the berlinale , which kicks off this year with a film about the illegal machinations of an international bank .
-lrb- 03.02.2009 -rrb- german love triangle squares off at venice film festival " jerichow , " a love triangle by german director christian petzold , screened at the venice film festival , the first german entry competing for the golden lion since 2004 .
it faces strong competition from the us and italy .
-lrb- 29.08.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
food try these recipes for a taste of europe .
hearty irish stew knödel dumplings with meat filling ribolitta from florence berlin-style pork with potatoes fish from lake traunsee in austria cologne fish with gourmet twist sweet-savory pheasant from leeds escudella vegetable and meat soup podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's new free podcast .
' clip ' homepage clip no. 10 - 1000 robota with a new take on punk subscribe on itunes get the rss feed word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
soundscape 100 concert hour arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth news quiz test your knowledge with the news quiz ! © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
cannes rolls out the world 's most famous red carpet once again -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 22.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de film -pipe- 13.05.2009 cannes rolls out the world 's most famous red carpet once again großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : in a cannes first , an animated film opened the festival each may , a festival held on the french riviera draws a collection of the world 's leading cinema minds from all corners of the globe : the cannes film festival .
this year 's edition kicked off on wednesday . the 62nd gathering of cinema 's elite in the resort town of cannes , which sits on france 's mediterranean coast , remains one of the world 's most esteemed and prestigious film festivals .
to win the coveted palme d 'or prize for best film at cannes could be described as a crowning achievement for any producer , director , actor or film studio involved in the production .
unlike other well-known film festivals , such as those in berlin and venice , the focus at cannes is usually on aesthetics : beautiful cinema .
though this year 's 20 entries take on more brutal tones .
this includes american quentin tarantino 's ultra-violent " inglourious basterds , " about a group of bloodthirsty nazi hunters , and korean park chan wook 's priest-turned-vampire flick " bak-jwi " -lrb- " thirst " -rrb- , which has already been racing up the movie charts in his home country .
maverick danish director lars von trier also raises the horror notch this year with his " antichrist , " in which willem dafoe and charlotte gainsbourg find themselves confronting their inner fears and some dark forces in a deserted cabin in the woods .
bildunterschrift : german director wim wenders ' film " paris , texas " is a past winner at cannes german co-production this year also sees a motion picture from germany-born director michael haneke , who directed the 2001 palme d 'or-winning film " the piano teacher . "
his latest cannes entry , " das weisse band " -lrb- " the white ribbon " -rrb- , is set in a village in protestant northern germany in 1913 .
haneke 's tale recreates a country on the eve of world war i , told through the lives of members of a youth choir run by the village school teacher and their families .
little more has been written about the film , the result of haneke 's strict policy of silence in the lead up to his films ' openings .
the film was a joint production between studios in germany , france , austria and italy .
if " the white ribbon " finds success at cannes this year , it would not be the first german co-production to make a name for itself at the festival .
in 1979 , volker schloendorff 's screen adaptation of " die blechtrommel " -lrb- " the tin drum " -rrb- took the top prize , as did wim wenders ' 1984 film " paris , texas . "
new and old faces bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : de niro will always be remembered for his leading role in " taxi driver " these films went on to become part of cinematic history , as do most palme d 'or winners .
this venerated list includes francis ford coppola 's " apocalypse now , " bunuel 's " viridiana , " visconti 's " the leopard " and scorsese 's " taxi driver . "
this year , all eyes will be on 3-d comedy " up " from us director pete docter , which is the first animated film to open the 12-day festival .
the story features an old man who ties balloons to his house in the hope of fulfilling a boyhood dream of flying to south america .
meanwhile , a man bent on avenging the death of his daughter in hong kong director jonnie to 's " vengeance " is also screening , and seven years after shaking up a storm in cannes with his story of rape in " irreversible , " france 's gaspar noe is back at the festival with " enter the void " about a brutal murder .
belt tightening bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the glitterati wo n't be stopped by the financial crisis with the economic crisis having cut a swathe through the world film industry over the last year , filmmakers from hollywood through to bollywood have faced cost-cutting , studio layoffs and an ever more cautious army of producers and movie financiers .
already signs have emerged that the motion picture business has scaled back plans for the lavish parties and extravagant promotional events that have always been a feature of the festival .
but all bets are that whatever the economic climate , this year 's gathering is still likely to celebrate movie-making and the cult of the celebrity with considerable style and flair . dfm / pfd / dpa / afp / reuters send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de germany 's film industry celebrates banner year in 2008 german productions contributed decisively to a banner year in the nation 's film industry in 2008 , continuing last year 's upbeat trend .
-lrb- 05.02.2009 -rrb- lights , camera , action for kosslick as berlinale approaches armed with a mischievous smile and twinkling eyes , dieter kosslick revels in his role as the director of the berlinale , which kicks off this year with a film about the illegal machinations of an international bank .
-lrb- 03.02.2009 -rrb- german love triangle squares off at venice film festival " jerichow , " a love triangle by german director christian petzold , screened at the venice film festival , the first german entry competing for the golden lion since 2004 .
it faces strong competition from the us and italy .
-lrb- 29.08.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live picture gallery fat and felt nearly 25 years after his death , joseph beuys is remembered for his broad view of art .
travel explore some of germany 's most spectacular historic castles .
marksburg albrechtsburg castle hohenzollern castle dw-tv : euromaxx podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's new free podcast .
clip no. 1 - luis und laserpower clip no. 2 - abel & cain clip no. 3 - baby benzin clip no. 4 - the intersphere subscribe on itunes get the rss feed word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
hits in germany concert hour music this week arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
cannes rolls out the world 's most famous red carpet once again -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 07.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de film -pipe- 13.05.2009 cannes rolls out the world 's most famous red carpet once again großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : in a cannes first , an animated film opened the festival each may , a festival held on the french riviera draws a collection of the world 's leading cinema minds from all corners of the globe : the cannes film festival .
this year 's edition kicked off on wednesday . the 62nd gathering of cinema 's elite in the resort town of cannes , which sits on france 's mediterranean coast , remains one of the world 's most esteemed and prestigious film festivals .
to win the coveted palme d 'or prize for best film at cannes could be described as a crowning achievement for any producer , director , actor or film studio involved in the production .
unlike other well-known film festivals , such as those in berlin and venice , the focus at cannes is usually on aesthetics : beautiful cinema .
though this year 's 20 entries take on more brutal tones .
this includes american quentin tarantino 's ultra-violent " inglourious basterds , " about a group of bloodthirsty nazi hunters , and korean park chan wook 's priest-turned-vampire flick " bak-jwi " -lrb- " thirst " -rrb- , which has already been racing up the movie charts in his home country .
maverick danish director lars von trier also raises the horror notch this year with his " antichrist , " in which willem dafoe and charlotte gainsbourg find themselves confronting their inner fears and some dark forces in a deserted cabin in the woods .
bildunterschrift : german director wim wenders ' film " paris , texas " is a past winner at cannes german co-production this year also sees a motion picture from germany-born director michael haneke , who directed the 2001 palme d 'or-winning film " the piano teacher . "
his latest cannes entry , " das weisse band " -lrb- " the white ribbon " -rrb- , is set in a village in protestant northern germany in 1913 .
haneke 's tale recreates a country on the eve of world war i , told through the lives of members of a youth choir run by the village school teacher and their families .
little more has been written about the film , the result of haneke 's strict policy of silence in the lead up to his films ' openings .
the film was a joint production between studios in germany , france , austria and italy .
if " the white ribbon " finds success at cannes this year , it would not be the first german co-production to make a name for itself at the festival .
in 1979 , volker schloendorff 's screen adaptation of " die blechtrommel " -lrb- " the tin drum " -rrb- took the top prize , as did wim wenders ' 1984 film " paris , texas . "
new and old faces bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : de niro will always be remembered for his leading role in " taxi driver " these films went on to become part of cinematic history , as do most palme d 'or winners .
this venerated list includes francis ford coppola 's " apocalypse now , " bunuel 's " viridiana , " visconti 's " the leopard " and scorsese 's " taxi driver . "
this year , all eyes will be on 3-d comedy " up " from us director pete docter , which is the first animated film to open the 12-day festival .
the story features an old man who ties balloons to his house in the hope of fulfilling a boyhood dream of flying to south america .
meanwhile , a man bent on avenging the death of his daughter in hong kong director jonnie to 's " vengeance " is also screening , and seven years after shaking up a storm in cannes with his story of rape in " irreversible , " france 's gaspar noe is back at the festival with " enter the void " about a brutal murder .
belt tightening bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the glitterati wo n't be stopped by the financial crisis with the economic crisis having cut a swathe through the world film industry over the last year , filmmakers from hollywood through to bollywood have faced cost-cutting , studio layoffs and an ever more cautious army of producers and movie financiers .
already signs have emerged that the motion picture business has scaled back plans for the lavish parties and extravagant promotional events that have always been a feature of the festival .
but all bets are that whatever the economic climate , this year 's gathering is still likely to celebrate movie-making and the cult of the celebrity with considerable style and flair . dfm / pfd / dpa / afp / reuters send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de germany 's film industry celebrates banner year in 2008 german productions contributed decisively to a banner year in the nation 's film industry in 2008 , continuing last year 's upbeat trend .
-lrb- 05.02.2009 -rrb- lights , camera , action for kosslick as berlinale approaches armed with a mischievous smile and twinkling eyes , dieter kosslick revels in his role as the director of the berlinale , which kicks off this year with a film about the illegal machinations of an international bank .
-lrb- 03.02.2009 -rrb- german love triangle squares off at venice film festival " jerichow , " a love triangle by german director christian petzold , screened at the venice film festival , the first german entry competing for the golden lion since 2004 .
it faces strong competition from the us and italy .
-lrb- 29.08.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live hits in germany pop from the german top 100 listen live music dw presents podcasts of performances by top artists at the 2010 beethovenfest .
podcasts on itunes more on beethoven podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's new free podcast .
clip no. 1 - luis und laserpower clip no. 2 - abel & cain clip no. 3 - baby benzin clip no. 4 - the intersphere clip no. 5 - shantel clip no. 6 - klee subscribe on itunes get the rss feed word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
hits in germany concert hour music this week arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
cannes rolls out the world 's most famous red carpet once again -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 19.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de film -pipe- 13.05.2009 cannes rolls out the world 's most famous red carpet once again großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : in a cannes first , an animated film opened the festival each may , a festival held on the french riviera draws a collection of the world 's leading cinema minds from all corners of the globe : the cannes film festival .
this year 's edition kicked off on wednesday . the 62nd gathering of cinema 's elite in the resort town of cannes , which sits on france 's mediterranean coast , remains one of the world 's most esteemed and prestigious film festivals .
to win the coveted palme d 'or prize for best film at cannes could be described as a crowning achievement for any producer , director , actor or film studio involved in the production .
unlike other well-known film festivals , such as those in berlin and venice , the focus at cannes is usually on aesthetics : beautiful cinema .
though this year 's 20 entries take on more brutal tones .
this includes american quentin tarantino 's ultra-violent " inglourious basterds , " about a group of bloodthirsty nazi hunters , and korean park chan wook 's priest-turned-vampire flick " bak-jwi " -lrb- " thirst " -rrb- , which has already been racing up the movie charts in his home country .
maverick danish director lars von trier also raises the horror notch this year with his " antichrist , " in which willem dafoe and charlotte gainsbourg find themselves confronting their inner fears and some dark forces in a deserted cabin in the woods .
bildunterschrift : german director wim wenders ' film " paris , texas " is a past winner at cannes german co-production this year also sees a motion picture from germany-born director michael haneke , who directed the 2001 palme d 'or-winning film " the piano teacher . "
his latest cannes entry , " das weisse band " -lrb- " the white ribbon " -rrb- , is set in a village in protestant northern germany in 1913 .
haneke 's tale recreates a country on the eve of world war i , told through the lives of members of a youth choir run by the village school teacher and their families .
little more has been written about the film , the result of haneke 's strict policy of silence in the lead up to his films ' openings .
the film was a joint production between studios in germany , france , austria and italy .
if " the white ribbon " finds success at cannes this year , it would not be the first german co-production to make a name for itself at the festival .
in 1979 , volker schloendorff 's screen adaptation of " die blechtrommel " -lrb- " the tin drum " -rrb- took the top prize , as did wim wenders ' 1984 film " paris , texas . "
new and old faces bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : de niro will always be remembered for his leading role in " taxi driver " these films went on to become part of cinematic history , as do most palme d 'or winners .
this venerated list includes francis ford coppola 's " apocalypse now , " bunuel 's " viridiana , " visconti 's " the leopard " and scorsese 's " taxi driver . "
this year , all eyes will be on 3-d comedy " up " from us director pete docter , which is the first animated film to open the 12-day festival .
the story features an old man who ties balloons to his house in the hope of fulfilling a boyhood dream of flying to south america .
meanwhile , a man bent on avenging the death of his daughter in hong kong director jonnie to 's " vengeance " is also screening , and seven years after shaking up a storm in cannes with his story of rape in " irreversible , " france 's gaspar noe is back at the festival with " enter the void " about a brutal murder .
belt tightening bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the glitterati wo n't be stopped by the financial crisis with the economic crisis having cut a swathe through the world film industry over the last year , filmmakers from hollywood through to bollywood have faced cost-cutting , studio layoffs and an ever more cautious army of producers and movie financiers .
already signs have emerged that the motion picture business has scaled back plans for the lavish parties and extravagant promotional events that have always been a feature of the festival .
but all bets are that whatever the economic climate , this year 's gathering is still likely to celebrate movie-making and the cult of the celebrity with considerable style and flair . dfm / pfd / dpa / afp / reuters send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de germany 's film industry celebrates banner year in 2008 german productions contributed decisively to a banner year in the nation 's film industry in 2008 , continuing last year 's upbeat trend .
-lrb- 05.02.2009 -rrb- lights , camera , action for kosslick as berlinale approaches armed with a mischievous smile and twinkling eyes , dieter kosslick revels in his role as the director of the berlinale , which kicks off this year with a film about the illegal machinations of an international bank .
-lrb- 03.02.2009 -rrb- german love triangle squares off at venice film festival " jerichow , " a love triangle by german director christian petzold , screened at the venice film festival , the first german entry competing for the golden lion since 2004 .
it faces strong competition from the us and italy .
-lrb- 29.08.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
picture gallery christmas markets holiday cheer ís easy to come by during the advent season in germany .
travel explore some of europe 's most fascinating cities with dw-tv 's euromaxx .
athens , greece trieste , italy krakow , poland le mans , france tarragona , spain oslo , norway edinburgh , scotland dresden , germany podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's new free podcast .
' clip ' homepage clip no. 4 - the intersphere clip no. 5 - shantel clip no. 6 - klee clip no. 7 - einshoch6 subscribe on itunes get the rss feed word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
hits in germany concert hour music this week arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth music dw presents podcasts of performances by top artists at the 2010 beethovenfest .
podcasts on itunes more on beethoven © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
cannes rolls out the world 's most famous red carpet once again -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 14.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle music art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de film -pipe- 13.05.2009 cannes rolls out the world 's most famous red carpet once again großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : in a cannes first , an animated film opened the festival each may , a festival held on the french riviera draws a collection of the world 's leading cinema minds from all corners of the globe : the cannes film festival .
this year 's edition kicked off on wednesday . the 62nd gathering of cinema 's elite in the resort town of cannes , which sits on france 's mediterranean coast , remains one of the world 's most esteemed and prestigious film festivals .
to win the coveted palme d 'or prize for best film at cannes could be described as a crowning achievement for any producer , director , actor or film studio involved in the production .
unlike other well-known film festivals , such as those in berlin and venice , the focus at cannes is usually on aesthetics : beautiful cinema .
though this year 's 20 entries take on more brutal tones .
this includes american quentin tarantino 's ultra-violent " inglourious basterds , " about a group of bloodthirsty nazi hunters , and korean park chan wook 's priest-turned-vampire flick " bak-jwi " -lrb- " thirst " -rrb- , which has already been racing up the movie charts in his home country .
maverick danish director lars von trier also raises the horror notch this year with his " antichrist , " in which willem dafoe and charlotte gainsbourg find themselves confronting their inner fears and some dark forces in a deserted cabin in the woods .
bildunterschrift : german director wim wenders ' film " paris , texas " is a past winner at cannes german co-production this year also sees a motion picture from germany-born director michael haneke , who directed the 2001 palme d 'or-winning film " the piano teacher . "
his latest cannes entry , " das weisse band " -lrb- " the white ribbon " -rrb- , is set in a village in protestant northern germany in 1913 .
haneke 's tale recreates a country on the eve of world war i , told through the lives of members of a youth choir run by the village school teacher and their families .
little more has been written about the film , the result of haneke 's strict policy of silence in the lead up to his films ' openings .
the film was a joint production between studios in germany , france , austria and italy .
if " the white ribbon " finds success at cannes this year , it would not be the first german co-production to make a name for itself at the festival .
in 1979 , volker schloendorff 's screen adaptation of " die blechtrommel " -lrb- " the tin drum " -rrb- took the top prize , as did wim wenders ' 1984 film " paris , texas . "
new and old faces bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : de niro will always be remembered for his leading role in " taxi driver " these films went on to become part of cinematic history , as do most palme d 'or winners .
this venerated list includes francis ford coppola 's " apocalypse now , " bunuel 's " viridiana , " visconti 's " the leopard " and scorsese 's " taxi driver . "
this year , all eyes will be on 3-d comedy " up " from us director pete docter , which is the first animated film to open the 12-day festival .
the story features an old man who ties balloons to his house in the hope of fulfilling a boyhood dream of flying to south america .
meanwhile , a man bent on avenging the death of his daughter in hong kong director jonnie to 's " vengeance " is also screening , and seven years after shaking up a storm in cannes with his story of rape in " irreversible , " france 's gaspar noe is back at the festival with " enter the void " about a brutal murder .
belt tightening bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the glitterati wo n't be stopped by the financial crisis with the economic crisis having cut a swathe through the world film industry over the last year , filmmakers from hollywood through to bollywood have faced cost-cutting , studio layoffs and an ever more cautious army of producers and movie financiers .
already signs have emerged that the motion picture business has scaled back plans for the lavish parties and extravagant promotional events that have always been a feature of the festival .
but all bets are that whatever the economic climate , this year 's gathering is still likely to celebrate movie-making and the cult of the celebrity with considerable style and flair . dfm / pfd / dpa / afp / reuters send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de germany 's film industry celebrates banner year in 2008 german productions contributed decisively to a banner year in the nation 's film industry in 2008 , continuing last year 's upbeat trend .
-lrb- 05.02.2009 -rrb- lights , camera , action for kosslick as berlinale approaches armed with a mischievous smile and twinkling eyes , dieter kosslick revels in his role as the director of the berlinale , which kicks off this year with a film about the illegal machinations of an international bank .
-lrb- 03.02.2009 -rrb- german love triangle squares off at venice film festival " jerichow , " a love triangle by german director christian petzold , screened at the venice film festival , the first german entry competing for the golden lion since 2004 .
it faces strong competition from the us and italy .
-lrb- 29.08.2008 -rrb- 9797 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
twitter follow dw culture keep up on europe 's culture and lifestyle scene .
culture calendar july happenings from wagner to world music - find out what 's going on in germany 's cultural scene .
recent picture galleries car fetish exhibition berlin fashion week day of the kiss ai weiwei , the photographer podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's free podcast series .
somewhere between poet and singer : meet hans unstern ' german pop ' homepage word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
view from my window radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
soundscape 100 concert hour arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
italian suspect in german mob killings to be extradited to italy -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 30.03.2011 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de crime -pipe- 13.05.2009 italian suspect in german mob killings to be extradited to italy großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : strangio has been top of the most-wanted lists both in germany and in italy giovanni strangio , an italian-born top suspect in a 2007 mafia shootout in germany , is to be extradited to italy , not germany , a dutch court ruled on wednesday . judge fred salomon said strangio , who was arrested in march in the netherlands , would be handed over to italian authorities because italy 's claim to the suspect was stronger than germany 's .
" the italian -lrb- extradition -rrb- request enjoys priority , " salomon said as he handed down the ruling in an amsterdam court . strangio , 30 , is an alleged leading member of the notorious southern italian mafia ' ndrangheta and one of the most wanted people in germany and italy .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the six victims in the duisburg mafia killings were shot in their cars he is suspected of being the ringleader of a shootout that left six rival clan members dead outside a pizzeria in duisburg , western germany , in august 2007 .
germany still wants strangio public prosecutors in duisburg had been trying to get strangio extradited to germany to try him in a local court .
but in recent weeks , it was widely expected that the dutch court would rule in favor of italy .
prosecutors in duisburg have agreed that strangio should be taken first to italy , spokesman detlef nowotsch said .
" we are stepping back for the time being , " nowotsch said .
" but that does n't mean that we do n't want strangio , " he added .
italy 's case for strangio stronger , judge says on wednesday , salomon said italy 's reasons for wanting to try strangio on home soil were more compelling than germany 's .
the judge said the german killings had been the result of clashes between rival clans in the italian town of san luca .
" therefore the relation with italy is bigger than the relation with duisburg where the crime took place , " salomon said .
the judge also pointed out that italy was seeking to prosecute strangio not only for the 2007 killings , but also for membership of a criminal organization .
" furthermore , all the victims had italian nationality , " he said .
strangio is to be transferred to italian custody from his dutch prison in the next 10 days .
killings draw attention to ' ndrangheta mafia the execution-style shootings in duisburg , which grabbed headlines in germany , stemmed from a feud between two rival clans .
the bloody crime drew international attention to the ' ndrangheta , a crime syndicate based in the southern italian region of calabria .
witnesses said they saw two attackers fire about 70 bullets at the six victims , aged 16 to 39 , as they were sitting in their cars after leaving the da bruno restaurant in the industrial city .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the killings outside the da bruno restaurant in duisburg sent shockwaves through germany the duisburg hit was believed to have been revenge for the 2006 christmas-time killing of maria strangio , a cousin of giovanni strangio and the wife of the head of the nirta-strangio clan , giovanni nirta , and the wounding of her son .
the battle between the rival clans has left 16 people dead since 1991 .
in march , an italian court jailed 31 people for the duisburg massacre , one of them for 13 years .
italy 's eurispes social studies institute has estimated ' ndrangheta 's turnover from trafficking in drugs and arms , prostitution and extortion in 2007 at 44 billion euros -lrb- $ 65 billion -rrb- .
strangio was arrested in march in the dutch town of diemen , after a lengthy probe involving telephone wire tapping , surveillance and close coordination between dutch , german and italian police . sp / pfd dpa / afp / reuters send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de dutch police arrest top suspect in duisburg mafia massacre dutch police have arrested an italian man named by authorities as the main suspect for the 2007 murder of six men outside a duisburg restaurant .
the man 's brother-in-law was also arrested during the operation .
-lrb- 13.03.2009 -rrb- police nab mafia boss tied to duisburg killings a suspected mafia boss who was implicated in the execution-style killings of six members of his clan in duisburg , germany , in 2007 , was finally tracked down in italy .
-lrb- 16.10.2008 -rrb- police arrest mafia boss with ties to duisburg massacre italian police arrested a wanted calabrian mafia boss who is the brother-in-law of a chief suspect in the august 2007 killings of six italians in duisburg , news reports said on thursday , aug .
7 .
-lrb- 07.08.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
italians hard hit by plastic bag ban east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
italian suspect in german mob killings to be extradited to italy -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 14.12.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de crime -pipe- 13.05.2009 italian suspect in german mob killings to be extradited to italy großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : strangio has been top of the most-wanted lists both in germany and in italy giovanni strangio , an italian-born top suspect in a 2007 mafia shootout in germany , is to be extradited to italy , not germany , a dutch court ruled on wednesday . judge fred salomon said strangio , who was arrested in march in the netherlands , would be handed over to italian authorities because italy 's claim to the suspect was stronger than germany 's .
" the italian -lrb- extradition -rrb- request enjoys priority , " salomon said as he handed down the ruling in an amsterdam court . strangio , 30 , is an alleged leading member of the notorious southern italian mafia ' ndrangheta and one of the most wanted people in germany and italy .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the six victims in the duisburg mafia killings were shot in their cars he is suspected of being the ringleader of a shootout that left six rival clan members dead outside a pizzeria in duisburg , western germany , in august 2007 .
germany still wants strangio public prosecutors in duisburg had been trying to get strangio extradited to germany to try him in a local court .
but in recent weeks , it was widely expected that the dutch court would rule in favor of italy .
prosecutors in duisburg have agreed that strangio should be taken first to italy , spokesman detlef nowotsch said .
" we are stepping back for the time being , " nowotsch said .
" but that does n't mean that we do n't want strangio , " he added .
italy 's case for strangio stronger , judge says on wednesday , salomon said italy 's reasons for wanting to try strangio on home soil were more compelling than germany 's .
the judge said the german killings had been the result of clashes between rival clans in the italian town of san luca .
" therefore the relation with italy is bigger than the relation with duisburg where the crime took place , " salomon said .
the judge also pointed out that italy was seeking to prosecute strangio not only for the 2007 killings , but also for membership of a criminal organization .
" furthermore , all the victims had italian nationality , " he said .
strangio is to be transferred to italian custody from his dutch prison in the next 10 days .
killings draw attention to ' ndrangheta mafia the execution-style shootings in duisburg , which grabbed headlines in germany , stemmed from a feud between two rival clans .
the bloody crime drew international attention to the ' ndrangheta , a crime syndicate based in the southern italian region of calabria .
witnesses said they saw two attackers fire about 70 bullets at the six victims , aged 16 to 39 , as they were sitting in their cars after leaving the da bruno restaurant in the industrial city .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the killings outside the da bruno restaurant in duisburg sent shockwaves through germany the duisburg hit was believed to have been revenge for the 2006 christmas-time killing of maria strangio , a cousin of giovanni strangio and the wife of the head of the nirta-strangio clan , giovanni nirta , and the wounding of her son .
the battle between the rival clans has left 16 people dead since 1991 .
in march , an italian court jailed 31 people for the duisburg massacre , one of them for 13 years .
italy 's eurispes social studies institute has estimated ' ndrangheta 's turnover from trafficking in drugs and arms , prostitution and extortion in 2007 at 44 billion euros -lrb- $ 65 billion -rrb- .
strangio was arrested in march in the dutch town of diemen , after a lengthy probe involving telephone wire tapping , surveillance and close coordination between dutch , german and italian police . sp / pfd dpa / afp / reuters send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de dutch police arrest top suspect in duisburg mafia massacre dutch police have arrested an italian man named by authorities as the main suspect for the 2007 murder of six men outside a duisburg restaurant .
the man 's brother-in-law was also arrested during the operation .
-lrb- 13.03.2009 -rrb- police nab mafia boss tied to duisburg killings a suspected mafia boss who was implicated in the execution-style killings of six members of his clan in duisburg , germany , in 2007 , was finally tracked down in italy .
-lrb- 16.10.2008 -rrb- police arrest mafia boss with ties to duisburg massacre italian police arrested a wanted calabrian mafia boss who is the brother-in-law of a chief suspect in the august 2007 killings of six italians in duisburg , news reports said on thursday , aug .
7 .
-lrb- 07.08.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live hits in germany pop from the german top 100 listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
italian suspect in german mob killings to be extradited to italy -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.09.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de crime -pipe- 13.05.2009 italian suspect in german mob killings to be extradited to italy großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : strangio has been top of the most-wanted lists both in germany and in italy giovanni strangio , an italian-born top suspect in a 2007 mafia shootout in germany , is to be extradited to italy , not germany , a dutch court ruled on wednesday . judge fred salomon said strangio , who was arrested in march in the netherlands , would be handed over to italian authorities because italy 's claim to the suspect was stronger than germany 's .
" the italian -lrb- extradition -rrb- request enjoys priority , " salomon said as he handed down the ruling in an amsterdam court . strangio , 30 , is an alleged leading member of the notorious southern italian mafia ' ndrangheta and one of the most wanted people in germany and italy .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the six victims in the duisburg mafia killings were shot in their cars he is suspected of being the ringleader of a shootout that left six rival clan members dead outside a pizzeria in duisburg , western germany , in august 2007 .
germany still wants strangio public prosecutors in duisburg had been trying to get strangio extradited to germany to try him in a local court .
but in recent weeks , it was widely expected that the dutch court would rule in favor of italy .
prosecutors in duisburg have agreed that strangio should be taken first to italy , spokesman detlef nowotsch said .
" we are stepping back for the time being , " nowotsch said .
" but that does n't mean that we do n't want strangio , " he added .
italy 's case for strangio stronger , judge says on wednesday , salomon said italy 's reasons for wanting to try strangio on home soil were more compelling than germany 's .
the judge said the german killings had been the result of clashes between rival clans in the italian town of san luca .
" therefore the relation with italy is bigger than the relation with duisburg where the crime took place , " salomon said .
the judge also pointed out that italy was seeking to prosecute strangio not only for the 2007 killings , but also for membership of a criminal organization .
" furthermore , all the victims had italian nationality , " he said .
strangio is to be transferred to italian custody from his dutch prison in the next 10 days .
killings draw attention to ' ndrangheta mafia the execution-style shootings in duisburg , which grabbed headlines in germany , stemmed from a feud between two rival clans .
the bloody crime drew international attention to the ' ndrangheta , a crime syndicate based in the southern italian region of calabria .
witnesses said they saw two attackers fire about 70 bullets at the six victims , aged 16 to 39 , as they were sitting in their cars after leaving the da bruno restaurant in the industrial city .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the killings outside the da bruno restaurant in duisburg sent shockwaves through germany the duisburg hit was believed to have been revenge for the 2006 christmas-time killing of maria strangio , a cousin of giovanni strangio and the wife of the head of the nirta-strangio clan , giovanni nirta , and the wounding of her son .
the battle between the rival clans has left 16 people dead since 1991 .
in march , an italian court jailed 31 people for the duisburg massacre , one of them for 13 years .
italy 's eurispes social studies institute has estimated ' ndrangheta 's turnover from trafficking in drugs and arms , prostitution and extortion in 2007 at 44 billion euros -lrb- $ 65 billion -rrb- .
strangio was arrested in march in the dutch town of diemen , after a lengthy probe involving telephone wire tapping , surveillance and close coordination between dutch , german and italian police . sp / pfd dpa / afp / reuters send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de dutch police arrest top suspect in duisburg mafia massacre dutch police have arrested an italian man named by authorities as the main suspect for the 2007 murder of six men outside a duisburg restaurant .
the man 's brother-in-law was also arrested during the operation .
-lrb- 13.03.2009 -rrb- police nab mafia boss tied to duisburg killings a suspected mafia boss who was implicated in the execution-style killings of six members of his clan in duisburg , germany , in 2007 , was finally tracked down in italy .
-lrb- 16.10.2008 -rrb- police arrest mafia boss with ties to duisburg massacre italian police arrested a wanted calabrian mafia boss who is the brother-in-law of a chief suspect in the august 2007 killings of six italians in duisburg , news reports said on thursday , aug .
7 .
-lrb- 07.08.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live kultur.21 we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inside europe listen live people natascha kampusch , the austrian who was kept prisoner from age 10 to 18 , publishes her autobigraphy .
listen to the report postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket are the gay games necessary ?
love parade - the end of an era oracle paul takes the plunge europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany agrees on bad bank scheme -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de banking -pipe- 13.05.2009 germany agrees on bad bank scheme großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : steinbrueck wants to reassure voters they wo n't wear the cost of the bail-out the german cabinet has agreed on a plan to clean up toxic assets from bank balance sheets .
in the run-up to the election , the issue has become highly politically charged . the scheme , which forms a key element of berlin 's bid to turn europe 's biggest economy around , would allow banks to park their toxic assets for up to 20 years , in specially created institutions .
banks would receive government backed bonds in return .
finance minister peer steinbrueck said the banks would still be held responsible for the toxic assets and , in the long run , they would bear the cost of transferring and holding the assets .
just five months out from a national election , the issue has proved politically prickly .
politicians are torn between the pressing need to revive germany 's foundering banking sector and burdening taxpayers with a huge bank bailout .
berlin hopes that once the toxic holdings have been removed from banks ' balance sheets , they will begin lending to each other and to businesses and consumers again .
that is meant to jolt the german economy back to life .
economic forecasters predict 6 percent shrinkage in europe 's biggest economy in 2009 . ch / ncy / afp / dpa send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german government steps in to clean up banks ' toxic assets the german government has drawn up a draft plan to clean up toxic assets from banks ' balance sheets , a key part of berlin 's bid to turn around europe 's biggest economy .
-lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- koehler blasts banks for keeping quiet over financial crisis in run up to presidential race , german president horst koehler has hit out at bankers ' greed , but is optimistic that the dark cloud of global financial crisis will have a silver lining .
-lrb- 02.05.2009 -rrb- leaked list reveals german banks have 816 billion euros in toxic assets a german newspaper has published a leaked list from the bafin financial oversight group that shows german banks are weighed down under 816 billion euros in toxic assets .
-lrb- 25.04.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic sweden 's bad bank scheme what is a bad bank ? 9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx - lifestyle europe we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live pulse listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
digital street art artists in berlin reinvent graffiti by projecting light onto buildings using computer systems .
watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany agrees on bad bank scheme -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 20.09.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de banking -pipe- 13.05.2009 germany agrees on bad bank scheme großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : steinbrueck wants to reassure voters they wo n't wear the cost of the bail-out the german cabinet has agreed on a plan to clean up toxic assets from bank balance sheets .
in the run-up to the election , the issue has become highly politically charged . the scheme , which forms a key element of berlin 's bid to turn europe 's biggest economy around , would allow banks to park their toxic assets for up to 20 years , in specially created institutions .
banks would receive government backed bonds in return .
finance minister peer steinbrueck said the banks would still be held responsible for the toxic assets and , in the long run , they would bear the cost of transferring and holding the assets .
just five months out from a national election , the issue has proved politically prickly .
politicians are torn between the pressing need to revive germany 's foundering banking sector and burdening taxpayers with a huge bank bailout .
berlin hopes that once the toxic holdings have been removed from banks ' balance sheets , they will begin lending to each other and to businesses and consumers again .
that is meant to jolt the german economy back to life .
economic forecasters predict 6 percent shrinkage in europe 's biggest economy in 2009 . ch / ncy / afp / dpa send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german government steps in to clean up banks ' toxic assets the german government has drawn up a draft plan to clean up toxic assets from banks ' balance sheets , a key part of berlin 's bid to turn around europe 's biggest economy .
-lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- koehler blasts banks for keeping quiet over financial crisis in run up to presidential race , german president horst koehler has hit out at bankers ' greed , but is optimistic that the dark cloud of global financial crisis will have a silver lining .
-lrb- 02.05.2009 -rrb- leaked list reveals german banks have 816 billion euros in toxic assets a german newspaper has published a leaked list from the bafin financial oversight group that shows german banks are weighed down under 816 billion euros in toxic assets .
-lrb- 25.04.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic sweden 's bad bank scheme what is a bad bank ?
feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live learning by ear listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany agrees on bad bank scheme -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 05.11.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de banking -pipe- 13.05.2009 germany agrees on bad bank scheme großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : steinbrueck wants to reassure voters they wo n't wear the cost of the bail-out the german cabinet has agreed on a plan to clean up toxic assets from bank balance sheets .
in the run-up to the election , the issue has become highly politically charged . the scheme , which forms a key element of berlin 's bid to turn europe 's biggest economy around , would allow banks to park their toxic assets for up to 20 years , in specially created institutions .
banks would receive government backed bonds in return .
finance minister peer steinbrueck said the banks would still be held responsible for the toxic assets and , in the long run , they would bear the cost of transferring and holding the assets .
just five months out from a national election , the issue has proved politically prickly .
politicians are torn between the pressing need to revive germany 's foundering banking sector and burdening taxpayers with a huge bank bailout .
berlin hopes that once the toxic holdings have been removed from banks ' balance sheets , they will begin lending to each other and to businesses and consumers again .
that is meant to jolt the german economy back to life .
economic forecasters predict 6 percent shrinkage in europe 's biggest economy in 2009 . ch / ncy / afp / dpa send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german government steps in to clean up banks ' toxic assets the german government has drawn up a draft plan to clean up toxic assets from banks ' balance sheets , a key part of berlin 's bid to turn around europe 's biggest economy .
-lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- koehler blasts banks for keeping quiet over financial crisis in run up to presidential race , german president horst koehler has hit out at bankers ' greed , but is optimistic that the dark cloud of global financial crisis will have a silver lining .
-lrb- 02.05.2009 -rrb- leaked list reveals german banks have 816 billion euros in toxic assets a german newspaper has published a leaked list from the bafin financial oversight group that shows german banks are weighed down under 816 billion euros in toxic assets .
-lrb- 25.04.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic sweden 's bad bank scheme what is a bad bank ?
feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live kick off !
countdown we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inside europe listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany agrees on bad bank scheme -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.01.2011 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de banking -pipe- 13.05.2009 germany agrees on bad bank scheme großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : steinbrueck wants to reassure voters they wo n't wear the cost of the bail-out the german cabinet has agreed on a plan to clean up toxic assets from bank balance sheets .
in the run-up to the election , the issue has become highly politically charged . the scheme , which forms a key element of berlin 's bid to turn europe 's biggest economy around , would allow banks to park their toxic assets for up to 20 years , in specially created institutions .
banks would receive government backed bonds in return .
finance minister peer steinbrueck said the banks would still be held responsible for the toxic assets and , in the long run , they would bear the cost of transferring and holding the assets .
just five months out from a national election , the issue has proved politically prickly .
politicians are torn between the pressing need to revive germany 's foundering banking sector and burdening taxpayers with a huge bank bailout .
berlin hopes that once the toxic holdings have been removed from banks ' balance sheets , they will begin lending to each other and to businesses and consumers again .
that is meant to jolt the german economy back to life .
economic forecasters predict 6 percent shrinkage in europe 's biggest economy in 2009 . ch / ncy / afp / dpa send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german government steps in to clean up banks ' toxic assets the german government has drawn up a draft plan to clean up toxic assets from banks ' balance sheets , a key part of berlin 's bid to turn around europe 's biggest economy .
-lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- koehler blasts banks for keeping quiet over financial crisis in run up to presidential race , german president horst koehler has hit out at bankers ' greed , but is optimistic that the dark cloud of global financial crisis will have a silver lining .
-lrb- 02.05.2009 -rrb- leaked list reveals german banks have 816 billion euros in toxic assets a german newspaper has published a leaked list from the bafin financial oversight group that shows german banks are weighed down under 816 billion euros in toxic assets .
-lrb- 25.04.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic sweden 's bad bank scheme what is a bad bank ?
feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live in focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live arts on the air listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany agrees on bad bank scheme -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.12.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de banking -pipe- 13.05.2009 germany agrees on bad bank scheme großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : steinbrueck wants to reassure voters they wo n't wear the cost of the bail-out the german cabinet has agreed on a plan to clean up toxic assets from bank balance sheets .
in the run-up to the election , the issue has become highly politically charged . the scheme , which forms a key element of berlin 's bid to turn europe 's biggest economy around , would allow banks to park their toxic assets for up to 20 years , in specially created institutions .
banks would receive government backed bonds in return .
finance minister peer steinbrueck said the banks would still be held responsible for the toxic assets and , in the long run , they would bear the cost of transferring and holding the assets .
just five months out from a national election , the issue has proved politically prickly .
politicians are torn between the pressing need to revive germany 's foundering banking sector and burdening taxpayers with a huge bank bailout .
berlin hopes that once the toxic holdings have been removed from banks ' balance sheets , they will begin lending to each other and to businesses and consumers again .
that is meant to jolt the german economy back to life .
economic forecasters predict 6 percent shrinkage in europe 's biggest economy in 2009 . ch / ncy / afp / dpa send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german government steps in to clean up banks ' toxic assets the german government has drawn up a draft plan to clean up toxic assets from banks ' balance sheets , a key part of berlin 's bid to turn around europe 's biggest economy .
-lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- koehler blasts banks for keeping quiet over financial crisis in run up to presidential race , german president horst koehler has hit out at bankers ' greed , but is optimistic that the dark cloud of global financial crisis will have a silver lining .
-lrb- 02.05.2009 -rrb- leaked list reveals german banks have 816 billion euros in toxic assets a german newspaper has published a leaked list from the bafin financial oversight group that shows german banks are weighed down under 816 billion euros in toxic assets .
-lrb- 25.04.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic sweden 's bad bank scheme what is a bad bank ?
feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live concert hour ard international music competition , part one listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
travel passau is called the three river city , but it is just as famous for its baroque splendor .
passau - baroque facades and vibrant arts watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany agrees on bad bank scheme -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 28.03.2011 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de banking -pipe- 13.05.2009 germany agrees on bad bank scheme großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : steinbrueck wants to reassure voters they wo n't wear the cost of the bail-out the german cabinet has agreed on a plan to clean up toxic assets from bank balance sheets .
in the run-up to the election , the issue has become highly politically charged . the scheme , which forms a key element of berlin 's bid to turn europe 's biggest economy around , would allow banks to park their toxic assets for up to 20 years , in specially created institutions .
banks would receive government backed bonds in return .
finance minister peer steinbrueck said the banks would still be held responsible for the toxic assets and , in the long run , they would bear the cost of transferring and holding the assets .
just five months out from a national election , the issue has proved politically prickly .
politicians are torn between the pressing need to revive germany 's foundering banking sector and burdening taxpayers with a huge bank bailout .
berlin hopes that once the toxic holdings have been removed from banks ' balance sheets , they will begin lending to each other and to businesses and consumers again .
that is meant to jolt the german economy back to life .
economic forecasters predict 6 percent shrinkage in europe 's biggest economy in 2009 . ch / ncy / afp / dpa send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german government steps in to clean up banks ' toxic assets the german government has drawn up a draft plan to clean up toxic assets from banks ' balance sheets , a key part of berlin 's bid to turn around europe 's biggest economy .
-lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- koehler blasts banks for keeping quiet over financial crisis in run up to presidential race , german president horst koehler has hit out at bankers ' greed , but is optimistic that the dark cloud of global financial crisis will have a silver lining .
-lrb- 02.05.2009 -rrb- leaked list reveals german banks have 816 billion euros in toxic assets a german newspaper has published a leaked list from the bafin financial oversight group that shows german banks are weighed down under 816 billion euros in toxic assets .
-lrb- 25.04.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic sweden 's bad bank scheme what is a bad bank ?
feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
italian suspect in german mob killings to be extradited to italy -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.10.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de crime -pipe- 13.05.2009 italian suspect in german mob killings to be extradited to italy großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : strangio has been top of the most-wanted lists both in germany and in italy giovanni strangio , an italian-born top suspect in a 2007 mafia shootout in germany , is to be extradited to italy , not germany , a dutch court ruled on wednesday . judge fred salomon said strangio , who was arrested in march in the netherlands , would be handed over to italian authorities because italy 's claim to the suspect was stronger than germany 's .
" the italian -lrb- extradition -rrb- request enjoys priority , " salomon said as he handed down the ruling in an amsterdam court . strangio , 30 , is an alleged leading member of the notorious southern italian mafia ' ndrangheta and one of the most wanted people in germany and italy .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the six victims in the duisburg mafia killings were shot in their cars he is suspected of being the ringleader of a shootout that left six rival clan members dead outside a pizzeria in duisburg , western germany , in august 2007 .
germany still wants strangio public prosecutors in duisburg had been trying to get strangio extradited to germany to try him in a local court .
but in recent weeks , it was widely expected that the dutch court would rule in favor of italy .
prosecutors in duisburg have agreed that strangio should be taken first to italy , spokesman detlef nowotsch said .
" we are stepping back for the time being , " nowotsch said .
" but that does n't mean that we do n't want strangio , " he added .
italy 's case for strangio stronger , judge says on wednesday , salomon said italy 's reasons for wanting to try strangio on home soil were more compelling than germany 's .
the judge said the german killings had been the result of clashes between rival clans in the italian town of san luca .
" therefore the relation with italy is bigger than the relation with duisburg where the crime took place , " salomon said .
the judge also pointed out that italy was seeking to prosecute strangio not only for the 2007 killings , but also for membership of a criminal organization .
" furthermore , all the victims had italian nationality , " he said .
strangio is to be transferred to italian custody from his dutch prison in the next 10 days .
killings draw attention to ' ndrangheta mafia the execution-style shootings in duisburg , which grabbed headlines in germany , stemmed from a feud between two rival clans .
the bloody crime drew international attention to the ' ndrangheta , a crime syndicate based in the southern italian region of calabria .
witnesses said they saw two attackers fire about 70 bullets at the six victims , aged 16 to 39 , as they were sitting in their cars after leaving the da bruno restaurant in the industrial city .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the killings outside the da bruno restaurant in duisburg sent shockwaves through germany the duisburg hit was believed to have been revenge for the 2006 christmas-time killing of maria strangio , a cousin of giovanni strangio and the wife of the head of the nirta-strangio clan , giovanni nirta , and the wounding of her son .
the battle between the rival clans has left 16 people dead since 1991 .
in march , an italian court jailed 31 people for the duisburg massacre , one of them for 13 years .
italy 's eurispes social studies institute has estimated ' ndrangheta 's turnover from trafficking in drugs and arms , prostitution and extortion in 2007 at 44 billion euros -lrb- $ 65 billion -rrb- .
strangio was arrested in march in the dutch town of diemen , after a lengthy probe involving telephone wire tapping , surveillance and close coordination between dutch , german and italian police . sp / pfd dpa / afp / reuters send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de dutch police arrest top suspect in duisburg mafia massacre dutch police have arrested an italian man named by authorities as the main suspect for the 2007 murder of six men outside a duisburg restaurant .
the man 's brother-in-law was also arrested during the operation .
-lrb- 13.03.2009 -rrb- police nab mafia boss tied to duisburg killings a suspected mafia boss who was implicated in the execution-style killings of six members of his clan in duisburg , germany , in 2007 , was finally tracked down in italy .
-lrb- 16.10.2008 -rrb- police arrest mafia boss with ties to duisburg massacre italian police arrested a wanted calabrian mafia boss who is the brother-in-law of a chief suspect in the august 2007 killings of six italians in duisburg , news reports said on thursday , aug .
7 .
-lrb- 07.08.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live in focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inspired minds one – to-one with organist , conductor and composer neithard bethke listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
quo vadis bosnia ?
betancourt book sparks controversy in france technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
italian suspect in german mob killings to be extradited to italy -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 14.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de crime -pipe- 13.05.2009 italian suspect in german mob killings to be extradited to italy großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : strangio has been top of the most-wanted lists both in germany and in italy giovanni strangio , an italian-born top suspect in a 2007 mafia shootout in germany , is to be extradited to italy , not germany , a dutch court ruled on wednesday . judge fred salomon said strangio , who was arrested in march in the netherlands , would be handed over to italian authorities because italy 's claim to the suspect was stronger than germany 's .
" the italian -lrb- extradition -rrb- request enjoys priority , " salomon said as he handed down the ruling in an amsterdam court . strangio , 30 , is an alleged leading member of the notorious southern italian mafia ' ndrangheta and one of the most wanted people in germany and italy .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the six victims in the duisburg mafia killings were shot in their cars he is suspected of being the ringleader of a shootout that left six rival clan members dead outside a pizzeria in duisburg , western germany , in august 2007 .
germany still wants strangio public prosecutors in duisburg had been trying to get strangio extradited to germany to try him in a local court .
but in recent weeks , it was widely expected that the dutch court would rule in favor of italy .
prosecutors in duisburg have agreed that strangio should be taken first to italy , spokesman detlef nowotsch said .
" we are stepping back for the time being , " nowotsch said .
" but that does n't mean that we do n't want strangio , " he added .
italy 's case for strangio stronger , judge says on wednesday , salomon said italy 's reasons for wanting to try strangio on home soil were more compelling than germany 's .
the judge said the german killings had been the result of clashes between rival clans in the italian town of san luca .
" therefore the relation with italy is bigger than the relation with duisburg where the crime took place , " salomon said .
the judge also pointed out that italy was seeking to prosecute strangio not only for the 2007 killings , but also for membership of a criminal organization .
" furthermore , all the victims had italian nationality , " he said .
strangio is to be transferred to italian custody from his dutch prison in the next 10 days .
killings draw attention to ' ndrangheta mafia the execution-style shootings in duisburg , which grabbed headlines in germany , stemmed from a feud between two rival clans .
the bloody crime drew international attention to the ' ndrangheta , a crime syndicate based in the southern italian region of calabria .
witnesses said they saw two attackers fire about 70 bullets at the six victims , aged 16 to 39 , as they were sitting in their cars after leaving the da bruno restaurant in the industrial city .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the killings outside the da bruno restaurant in duisburg sent shockwaves through germany the duisburg hit was believed to have been revenge for the 2006 christmas-time killing of maria strangio , a cousin of giovanni strangio and the wife of the head of the nirta-strangio clan , giovanni nirta , and the wounding of her son .
the battle between the rival clans has left 16 people dead since 1991 .
in march , an italian court jailed 31 people for the duisburg massacre , one of them for 13 years .
italy 's eurispes social studies institute has estimated ' ndrangheta 's turnover from trafficking in drugs and arms , prostitution and extortion in 2007 at 44 billion euros -lrb- $ 65 billion -rrb- .
strangio was arrested in march in the dutch town of diemen , after a lengthy probe involving telephone wire tapping , surveillance and close coordination between dutch , german and italian police . sp / pfd dpa / afp / reuters send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de dutch police arrest top suspect in duisburg mafia massacre dutch police have arrested an italian man named by authorities as the main suspect for the 2007 murder of six men outside a duisburg restaurant .
the man 's brother-in-law was also arrested during the operation .
-lrb- 13.03.2009 -rrb- police nab mafia boss tied to duisburg killings a suspected mafia boss who was implicated in the execution-style killings of six members of his clan in duisburg , germany , in 2007 , was finally tracked down in italy .
-lrb- 16.10.2008 -rrb- police arrest mafia boss with ties to duisburg massacre italian police arrested a wanted calabrian mafia boss who is the brother-in-law of a chief suspect in the august 2007 killings of six italians in duisburg , news reports said on thursday , aug .
7 .
-lrb- 07.08.2008 -rrb- 9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - news with in depth we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
unemployment facing high unemployment at home , many young spaniards are trying their luck in germany .
watch the video tour de danger why have there been so many violent crashes at this year 's tour de france ?
listen to the audio world war ii nazi leader adolf hitler 's austrian birthplace kicks him off its list of honorary citizens .
listen to the audio inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
berlin unveils plan to help rid banks of toxic assets -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 14.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de economy -pipe- 13.05.2009 berlin unveils plan to help rid banks of toxic assets großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : banks can now move to clean up their balance sheets the german cabinet has approved a draft law to help rid lenders of an estimated 200 billion euros -lrb- $ 272 billion -rrb- in worthless assets .
banks can swap the assets against guaranteed state loans for up to 20 years . the aim of the " bad bank " plan is to clean up lenders ' balance sheets and restore confidence in the financial sector .
the bill , drafted by finance minister peer steinbrueck , would enable banks to receive state guaranteed loans on commercial terms , in exchange for offloading their troubled assets .
through the government 's financial market stabilization fund , soffin , lenders would be able to swap toxic assets for guaranteed state loans worth 90 percent of the original value of the assets .
lenders would pay an annual fee and be able to " freeze " the assets until better times come along . after a maximum of 20 years , they would have to pay back any losses to the government .
some believe the german banks hold more than 200 billion euros of troubled assets .
" in the interests of the real economy , we are buying time so that the so-called toxic assets can be cleared up , " explained chancellor angela merkel 's chief of staff , thomas de maiziere .
what 's worthless today , may not be tomorrow bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : german finance minister peer steinbrueck says taxpayers will not foot the bill " it 's not clear how toxic these assets really are , " said finance expert , otto salms of the liberal free democrats -lrb- fdp -rrb- .
" some of these assets may well be worth more again once the crisis ends and the economy recovers .
if that 's the case , the banks may end up having to write off much less at a later date than they would if they were forced to liquidate these assets today . "
economic recovery and financial liquidity go hand in hand .
one of the factors that 's been driving the crisis around the world is that banks have stopped lending to each other because they have n't been able to assess the size of the financial black holes on each other 's balance sheets .
berlin hopes that by removing bad holdings from balance sheets banks will start lending to each other again , as well as to businesses and consumers .
this in turn would help kick-start the german economy , the biggest in europe , which is expected to shrink by six percent this year .
shareholders , not taxpayers , to bear the burden under the plan , which comes five months before a general election , any liabilities at the end of maturity would accrue to shareholders , and not to the taxpayer .
" it 's only right that whoever made profits through taking high risks over the years , must also be prepared to take the losses , " explained financial expert johannes kahrs , of the social democrats -lrb- spd -rrb- , the coalition partners of chancellor angela merkel 's christian democrats -lrb- cdu -rrb- . "
i think that 's reasonable , it 's a basic economic principle . "
some critics say the scheme is flawed because it is voluntary .
banks are not to be forced to dispose of toxic assets through the soffin national rescue program .
the government insists that " good banks " are interesting for investors and a cleaned up , reliable balance sheet will attract capital .
the draft legislation still has to go before both the lower and upper houses of parliament , the bundestag und bundesrat . wl / pfd / afp / ard send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de financial watchdog chief calls for " bad bank " for toxic assets the head of a watchdog committee of germany 's bank stabilization fund has called for the creation of a " bad bank " that could buy up toxic assets and unblock interbank lending .
-lrb- 11.01.2009 -rrb- us mortgage crisis hits german banks the battered subprime mortgage market in the united states is increasingly impacting the us economy .
now , losses from risky us home loans to borrowers with poor credit histories have swept across the atlantic .
-lrb- 31.07.2007 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic the german cabinet backs plan to relieve the country 's banks of their toxic assets 9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx - leben und kultur in europa we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
digital street art artists in berlin reinvent graffiti by projecting light onto buildings using computer systems .
watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
berlin unveils plan to help rid banks of toxic assets -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 30.03.2011 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de economy -pipe- 13.05.2009 berlin unveils plan to help rid banks of toxic assets großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : banks can now move to clean up their balance sheets the german cabinet has approved a draft law to help rid lenders of an estimated 200 billion euros -lrb- $ 272 billion -rrb- in worthless assets .
banks can swap the assets against guaranteed state loans for up to 20 years . the aim of the " bad bank " plan is to clean up lenders ' balance sheets and restore confidence in the financial sector .
the bill , drafted by finance minister peer steinbrueck , would enable banks to receive state guaranteed loans on commercial terms , in exchange for offloading their troubled assets .
through the government 's financial market stabilization fund , soffin , lenders would be able to swap toxic assets for guaranteed state loans worth 90 percent of the original value of the assets .
lenders would pay an annual fee and be able to " freeze " the assets until better times come along . after a maximum of 20 years , they would have to pay back any losses to the government .
some believe the german banks hold more than 200 billion euros of troubled assets .
" in the interests of the real economy , we are buying time so that the so-called toxic assets can be cleared up , " explained chancellor angela merkel 's chief of staff , thomas de maiziere .
what 's worthless today , may not be tomorrow bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : german finance minister peer steinbrueck says taxpayers will not foot the bill " it 's not clear how toxic these assets really are , " said finance expert , otto salms of the liberal free democrats -lrb- fdp -rrb- .
" some of these assets may well be worth more again once the crisis ends and the economy recovers .
if that 's the case , the banks may end up having to write off much less at a later date than they would if they were forced to liquidate these assets today . "
economic recovery and financial liquidity go hand in hand .
one of the factors that 's been driving the crisis around the world is that banks have stopped lending to each other because they have n't been able to assess the size of the financial black holes on each other 's balance sheets .
berlin hopes that by removing bad holdings from balance sheets banks will start lending to each other again , as well as to businesses and consumers .
this in turn would help kick-start the german economy , the biggest in europe , which is expected to shrink by six percent this year .
shareholders , not taxpayers , to bear the burden under the plan , which comes five months before a general election , any liabilities at the end of maturity would accrue to shareholders , and not to the taxpayer .
" it 's only right that whoever made profits through taking high risks over the years , must also be prepared to take the losses , " explained financial expert johannes kahrs , of the social democrats -lrb- spd -rrb- , the coalition partners of chancellor angela merkel 's christian democrats -lrb- cdu -rrb- . "
i think that 's reasonable , it 's a basic economic principle . "
some critics say the scheme is flawed because it is voluntary .
banks are not to be forced to dispose of toxic assets through the soffin national rescue program .
the government insists that " good banks " are interesting for investors and a cleaned up , reliable balance sheet will attract capital .
the draft legislation still has to go before both the lower and upper houses of parliament , the bundestag und bundesrat . wl / pfd / afp / ard send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de financial watchdog chief calls for " bad bank " for toxic assets the head of a watchdog committee of germany 's bank stabilization fund has called for the creation of a " bad bank " that could buy up toxic assets and unblock interbank lending .
-lrb- 11.01.2009 -rrb- us mortgage crisis hits german banks the battered subprime mortgage market in the united states is increasingly impacting the us economy .
now , losses from risky us home loans to borrowers with poor credit histories have swept across the atlantic .
-lrb- 31.07.2007 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic the german cabinet backs plan to relieve the country 's banks of their toxic assets feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
berlin unveils plan to help rid banks of toxic assets -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.09.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de economy -pipe- 13.05.2009 berlin unveils plan to help rid banks of toxic assets großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : banks can now move to clean up their balance sheets the german cabinet has approved a draft law to help rid lenders of an estimated 200 billion euros -lrb- $ 272 billion -rrb- in worthless assets .
banks can swap the assets against guaranteed state loans for up to 20 years . the aim of the " bad bank " plan is to clean up lenders ' balance sheets and restore confidence in the financial sector .
the bill , drafted by finance minister peer steinbrueck , would enable banks to receive state guaranteed loans on commercial terms , in exchange for offloading their troubled assets .
through the government 's financial market stabilization fund , soffin , lenders would be able to swap toxic assets for guaranteed state loans worth 90 percent of the original value of the assets .
lenders would pay an annual fee and be able to " freeze " the assets until better times come along . after a maximum of 20 years , they would have to pay back any losses to the government .
some believe the german banks hold more than 200 billion euros of troubled assets .
" in the interests of the real economy , we are buying time so that the so-called toxic assets can be cleared up , " explained chancellor angela merkel 's chief of staff , thomas de maiziere .
what 's worthless today , may not be tomorrow bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : german finance minister peer steinbrueck says taxpayers will not foot the bill " it 's not clear how toxic these assets really are , " said finance expert , otto salms of the liberal free democrats -lrb- fdp -rrb- .
" some of these assets may well be worth more again once the crisis ends and the economy recovers .
if that 's the case , the banks may end up having to write off much less at a later date than they would if they were forced to liquidate these assets today . "
economic recovery and financial liquidity go hand in hand .
one of the factors that 's been driving the crisis around the world is that banks have stopped lending to each other because they have n't been able to assess the size of the financial black holes on each other 's balance sheets .
berlin hopes that by removing bad holdings from balance sheets banks will start lending to each other again , as well as to businesses and consumers .
this in turn would help kick-start the german economy , the biggest in europe , which is expected to shrink by six percent this year .
shareholders , not taxpayers , to bear the burden under the plan , which comes five months before a general election , any liabilities at the end of maturity would accrue to shareholders , and not to the taxpayer .
" it 's only right that whoever made profits through taking high risks over the years , must also be prepared to take the losses , " explained financial expert johannes kahrs , of the social democrats -lrb- spd -rrb- , the coalition partners of chancellor angela merkel 's christian democrats -lrb- cdu -rrb- . "
i think that 's reasonable , it 's a basic economic principle . "
some critics say the scheme is flawed because it is voluntary .
banks are not to be forced to dispose of toxic assets through the soffin national rescue program .
the government insists that " good banks " are interesting for investors and a cleaned up , reliable balance sheet will attract capital .
the draft legislation still has to go before both the lower and upper houses of parliament , the bundestag und bundesrat . wl / pfd / afp / ard send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de financial watchdog chief calls for " bad bank " for toxic assets the head of a watchdog committee of germany 's bank stabilization fund has called for the creation of a " bad bank " that could buy up toxic assets and unblock interbank lending .
-lrb- 11.01.2009 -rrb- us mortgage crisis hits german banks the battered subprime mortgage market in the united states is increasingly impacting the us economy .
now , losses from risky us home loans to borrowers with poor credit histories have swept across the atlantic .
-lrb- 31.07.2007 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic the german cabinet backs plan to relieve the country 's banks of their toxic assets feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live sports report listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
berlin unveils plan to help rid banks of toxic assets -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 19.10.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de economy -pipe- 13.05.2009 berlin unveils plan to help rid banks of toxic assets großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : banks can now move to clean up their balance sheets the german cabinet has approved a draft law to help rid lenders of an estimated 200 billion euros -lrb- $ 272 billion -rrb- in worthless assets .
banks can swap the assets against guaranteed state loans for up to 20 years . the aim of the " bad bank " plan is to clean up lenders ' balance sheets and restore confidence in the financial sector .
the bill , drafted by finance minister peer steinbrueck , would enable banks to receive state guaranteed loans on commercial terms , in exchange for offloading their troubled assets .
through the government 's financial market stabilization fund , soffin , lenders would be able to swap toxic assets for guaranteed state loans worth 90 percent of the original value of the assets .
lenders would pay an annual fee and be able to " freeze " the assets until better times come along . after a maximum of 20 years , they would have to pay back any losses to the government .
some believe the german banks hold more than 200 billion euros of troubled assets .
" in the interests of the real economy , we are buying time so that the so-called toxic assets can be cleared up , " explained chancellor angela merkel 's chief of staff , thomas de maiziere .
what 's worthless today , may not be tomorrow bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : german finance minister peer steinbrueck says taxpayers will not foot the bill " it 's not clear how toxic these assets really are , " said finance expert , otto salms of the liberal free democrats -lrb- fdp -rrb- .
" some of these assets may well be worth more again once the crisis ends and the economy recovers .
if that 's the case , the banks may end up having to write off much less at a later date than they would if they were forced to liquidate these assets today . "
economic recovery and financial liquidity go hand in hand .
one of the factors that 's been driving the crisis around the world is that banks have stopped lending to each other because they have n't been able to assess the size of the financial black holes on each other 's balance sheets .
berlin hopes that by removing bad holdings from balance sheets banks will start lending to each other again , as well as to businesses and consumers .
this in turn would help kick-start the german economy , the biggest in europe , which is expected to shrink by six percent this year .
shareholders , not taxpayers , to bear the burden under the plan , which comes five months before a general election , any liabilities at the end of maturity would accrue to shareholders , and not to the taxpayer .
" it 's only right that whoever made profits through taking high risks over the years , must also be prepared to take the losses , " explained financial expert johannes kahrs , of the social democrats -lrb- spd -rrb- , the coalition partners of chancellor angela merkel 's christian democrats -lrb- cdu -rrb- . "
i think that 's reasonable , it 's a basic economic principle . "
some critics say the scheme is flawed because it is voluntary .
banks are not to be forced to dispose of toxic assets through the soffin national rescue program .
the government insists that " good banks " are interesting for investors and a cleaned up , reliable balance sheet will attract capital .
the draft legislation still has to go before both the lower and upper houses of parliament , the bundestag und bundesrat . wl / pfd / afp / ard send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de financial watchdog chief calls for " bad bank " for toxic assets the head of a watchdog committee of germany 's bank stabilization fund has called for the creation of a " bad bank " that could buy up toxic assets and unblock interbank lending .
-lrb- 11.01.2009 -rrb- us mortgage crisis hits german banks the battered subprime mortgage market in the united states is increasingly impacting the us economy .
now , losses from risky us home loans to borrowers with poor credit histories have swept across the atlantic .
-lrb- 31.07.2007 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic the german cabinet backs plan to relieve the country 's banks of their toxic assets feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live hits in germany pop from the german top 100 listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
berlin unveils plan to help rid banks of toxic assets -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 19.12.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de economy -pipe- 13.05.2009 berlin unveils plan to help rid banks of toxic assets großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : banks can now move to clean up their balance sheets the german cabinet has approved a draft law to help rid lenders of an estimated 200 billion euros -lrb- $ 272 billion -rrb- in worthless assets .
banks can swap the assets against guaranteed state loans for up to 20 years . the aim of the " bad bank " plan is to clean up lenders ' balance sheets and restore confidence in the financial sector .
the bill , drafted by finance minister peer steinbrueck , would enable banks to receive state guaranteed loans on commercial terms , in exchange for offloading their troubled assets .
through the government 's financial market stabilization fund , soffin , lenders would be able to swap toxic assets for guaranteed state loans worth 90 percent of the original value of the assets .
lenders would pay an annual fee and be able to " freeze " the assets until better times come along . after a maximum of 20 years , they would have to pay back any losses to the government .
some believe the german banks hold more than 200 billion euros of troubled assets .
" in the interests of the real economy , we are buying time so that the so-called toxic assets can be cleared up , " explained chancellor angela merkel 's chief of staff , thomas de maiziere .
what 's worthless today , may not be tomorrow bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : german finance minister peer steinbrueck says taxpayers will not foot the bill " it 's not clear how toxic these assets really are , " said finance expert , otto salms of the liberal free democrats -lrb- fdp -rrb- .
" some of these assets may well be worth more again once the crisis ends and the economy recovers .
if that 's the case , the banks may end up having to write off much less at a later date than they would if they were forced to liquidate these assets today . "
economic recovery and financial liquidity go hand in hand .
one of the factors that 's been driving the crisis around the world is that banks have stopped lending to each other because they have n't been able to assess the size of the financial black holes on each other 's balance sheets .
berlin hopes that by removing bad holdings from balance sheets banks will start lending to each other again , as well as to businesses and consumers .
this in turn would help kick-start the german economy , the biggest in europe , which is expected to shrink by six percent this year .
shareholders , not taxpayers , to bear the burden under the plan , which comes five months before a general election , any liabilities at the end of maturity would accrue to shareholders , and not to the taxpayer .
" it 's only right that whoever made profits through taking high risks over the years , must also be prepared to take the losses , " explained financial expert johannes kahrs , of the social democrats -lrb- spd -rrb- , the coalition partners of chancellor angela merkel 's christian democrats -lrb- cdu -rrb- . "
i think that 's reasonable , it 's a basic economic principle . "
some critics say the scheme is flawed because it is voluntary .
banks are not to be forced to dispose of toxic assets through the soffin national rescue program .
the government insists that " good banks " are interesting for investors and a cleaned up , reliable balance sheet will attract capital .
the draft legislation still has to go before both the lower and upper houses of parliament , the bundestag und bundesrat . wl / pfd / afp / ard send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de financial watchdog chief calls for " bad bank " for toxic assets the head of a watchdog committee of germany 's bank stabilization fund has called for the creation of a " bad bank " that could buy up toxic assets and unblock interbank lending .
-lrb- 11.01.2009 -rrb- us mortgage crisis hits german banks the battered subprime mortgage market in the united states is increasingly impacting the us economy .
now , losses from risky us home loans to borrowers with poor credit histories have swept across the atlantic .
-lrb- 31.07.2007 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic the german cabinet backs plan to relieve the country 's banks of their toxic assets feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inspired minds pavan sukhdev listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
travel passau is called the three river city , but it is just as famous for its baroque splendor .
passau - baroque facades and vibrant arts watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
pope visits west bank , calls for palestinian statehood -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de religion -pipe- 13.05.2009 pope visits west bank , calls for palestinian statehood großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : palestinians gave an enthusiastic welcome to pope benedict during a visit to bethlehem , pope benedict xvi voiced support for palestinian aspirations of an independent homeland and said he hoped the wall that israel has erected in and around the west bank would come down . speaking in bethlehem after holding a mass in manger square , the pope pressed calls to remove the wall and watch towers that seal bethlehem off from jerusalem .
" towering over us ... is a stark reminder of the stalemate that relations between israelis and palestinians seem to have reached - the wall , " the pope said as he stood in the shadow of israel 's separation wall in the aida refugee camp , which houses refugees from israel 's creation in 1948 .
the pope said it 's " understandable that palestinians feel frustrated , " adding that " their legitimate aspirations for permanent homes , for an independent palestinian state , remain unfulfilled . "
the camp is home to around 5,000 refugees .
bildunterschrift : palestinian children at the aida refugee camp next to a poster of the pope " i have seen , ... overshadowing much of bethlehem , the wall that intrudes into your territories , separating neighbors and dividing families , " the pope said in the town believed to be the birthplace of jesus christ .
" although walls can be easily built , we all know that they do not last forever .
they can be taken down . "
pope lends support to palestinian statehood earlier , thousands greeted the pope 's black limousine as he made his way to manger square where he said mass for about 5,000 people next to the church of the nativity that marks the spot where christians believe jesus was born to mary in a stable .
one of the aims of the pope 's visit is to attempt to preserve a shrinking christian presence in the middle east .
the christian population of bethlehem has decreased dramatically in recent years through emigration . thousands of christians left the town after a palestinian uprising in 2000 and was met by an israeli security clampdown and the start of construction of the barrier .
the pope acknowledged israel 's security concerns as well as palestinian suffering , and urged people not to " resort to acts of violence or terrorism . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : pope benedict xvi outside of the church of the nativity in bethlehem the pope said his heart went out to those caught up in the conflict in gaza , adding that he was praying for an end to the israeli embargo of the gaza strip .
earlier , the pontiff told palestinian president mahmoud abbas that he backed the creation of a palestinian state .
" the holy see supports the right of your people to a sovereign palestinian homeland in the land of your forefathers , secure and at peace with your neighbors , within internationally recognized borders , " he said .
the pope 's comments are the vatican 's strongest and most symbolic public backing yet for an independent palestinian state .
the two-state solution is supported by abbas , arab nations and western powers .
but the new israeli prime minister , benjamin netanyahu , has declined so far to endorse it .
visit dogged by controversy the german-born pope 's week-long trip to the middle east , his first visit to the region , has not been without controversy .
on tuesday , a row erupted over the pope 's membership as a teenager of the hitler youth , as he paid a historic visit to holy sites in jerusalem .
vatican spokesman , federico lombardi , said the pontiff had " never , never , never " belonged to the organization , but later changed his version , saying that he had been a member but his membership was compulsory .
in his own 1997 memoirs , pope benedict had said he had been registered with the hitler youth while he was at a seminary .
the latest row comes on the heels of comments by some israeli leaders complaining that the pope did not go far enough in offering emotion in remarks he made on monday at the yad vashem memorial to the jewish dead of the holocaust . sp , pfd reuters / ap / dpa send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de pope continues balancing act on tour of holy sites in jerusalem pope benedict xvi became the first pope to enter a politically-charged shrine in jerusalem sacred to jews and muslims .
the pope continues to face criticism on the second day of a week-long visit to the region .
-lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- pope continues middle east tour as criticism of yad vashem speech grows pope benedict xvi used a service at jerusalem 's yad vashem memorial to express " deep compassion " for the victims of the holocaust .
but jewish leaders in germany and israel criticized the pope for not going far enough .
-lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- pope seeks to salve holocaust wounds pope benedict xvi is on his first trip to israel .
he has used a speech to seek to heal the wounds created by , among other things , his reinstatement of a holocaust-denying bishop .
-lrb- 11.05.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic pope benedict calls israel 's security barrier in the west bank " tragic " feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
sobibor survivor : demjanjuk trial will go down in history -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 16.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de world war ii -pipe- 13.05.2009 sobibor survivor : demjanjuk trial will go down in history großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some 250,000 jews , gypsies and political prisoners were murdered in sobibor 's gas chambers deutsche welle spoke with thomas blatt , one of few to escape from the nazi-run sobibor extermination camp .
he says he does n't care whether john demjanjuk is jailed for working at the camp , just that he tells the truth . thomas blatt was one of the few to survive the sobibor extermination camp in nazi-occupied poland during world war ii .
the 82-year-old is now a key witness in the munich trial of john demjanjuk , who is alleged to have been a guard at sobibor .
deutsche welle : why did you decide to come to germany for this trial ?
thomas blatt : because when i escaped from sobibor , i promised myself that if i survived , i will do everything to tell the story of sobibor .
and that 's what i 'm doing .
and i know that demjanjuk knows a lot , because demjanjuk was in the middle of the holocaust .
and he denies that it is him , that he was not a guard at sobibor , but he was .
i do n't care if demjanjuk is in jail or not .
i do care that he should tell the truth .
and the truth is , that he was a guard at sobibor .
sobibor was not a simple concentration camp .
sobibor was an extermination camp .
at sobibor the guards were simple murderers .
in a concentration camp a guard was a guard , … responsible -lsb- for preventing -rsb- people from running away .
but at sobibor they were simple murderers .
you said that among the guards at sobibor some were sadistic .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : demjanjuk 's wartime identification card is a major piece of evidence against him i said that they were sadistic and that some guards escaped from sobibor .
but demjanjuk did not escape .
he was there all the time with the nazis .
i do n't say that i -lsb- saw -rsb- him for sure .
-lsb- the guards -rsb- were very sadistic .
and we were more afraid of the guards than we were of the germans .
i 'm sure i know that he was a guard .
it is my duty to tell .
he should tell what sobibor was for .
what will be your reaction if there is not enough evidence to find mr. demjanjuk guilty ?
i believe that he will tell the truth , the way it was in sobibor .
and this will be part of history .
this will be -lsb- something -rsb- for the new generation to learn .
because what he has seen , few people have seen .
i strongly believe he will tell the truth .
and later demjanjuk could go free .
for me his testimony is very important , and that 's why i am in munich following demjanjuk 's story .
i am sorry in a way for demjanjuk .
he 's an old man , 89 years old .
he 's sick , he has a family .
so i 'm sorry in a way .
and i think that many people think the same way : he 's an old man , he 's suffered so much .
but i also see the other side of demjanjuk .
i see him as a terrible sadist , a murderer .
he did n't run away from his work .
interview : michael lawton editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de suspected nazi prison camp guard deported to germany the us has deported an alleged former nazi prison camp guard to germany .
jewish leaders hailed john demjanjuk 's deportation , saying they hoped it was n't too late for the 89-year-old to be brought to justice .
-lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- opinion : no statute of limitations on horrors of the holocaust after decades of judicial wrangling , the alleged nazi criminal john demjanjuk is to stand trial in germany .
on tuesday he was flown to munich and brought to a prison awaiting trial .
cornelia rabitz has this commentary : -lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- us seeks to clear path for demjanjuk deportation , again the us government has sought to clear the way to deport alleged former death camp guard john demjanjuk , just days after a us court postponed his deportation to wait for proof that he is fit to travel to germany .
-lrb- 21.04.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic michael lawton talks to raphael gross of the fritz bauer institute for holocaust studies about john demjanjuk nazi war crimes suspect john demjanjuk deported to germany -lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- 9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
cairo crisis egypt 's military council has warned protesters it will move in to break up the demonstrations .
watch the video in depth focus on libya dw-world looks at the turmoil in libya : what it means for tripoli and the rest of the world .
international conference media representatives around the world gather in bonn to discuss human rights .
podcast series by teaching stand-up comedy , bryan encourages his students to discover their talents .
download the report subscribe to the series on itunes past episodes learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
sobibor survivor : demjanjuk trial will go down in history -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 10.11.2010 home news germany europe world from tierra del fuego to tijuana asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de world war ii -pipe- 13.05.2009 sobibor survivor : demjanjuk trial will go down in history großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some 250,000 jews , gypsies and political prisoners were murdered in sobibor 's gas chambers deutsche welle spoke with thomas blatt , one of few to escape from the nazi-run sobibor extermination camp .
he says he does n't care whether john demjanjuk is jailed for working at the camp , just that he tells the truth . thomas blatt was one of the few to survive the sobibor extermination camp in nazi-occupied poland during world war ii .
the 82-year-old is now a key witness in the munich trial of john demjanjuk , who is alleged to have been a guard at sobibor .
deutsche welle : why did you decide to come to germany for this trial ?
thomas blatt : because when i escaped from sobibor , i promised myself that if i survived , i will do everything to tell the story of sobibor .
and that 's what i 'm doing .
and i know that demjanjuk knows a lot , because demjanjuk was in the middle of the holocaust .
and he denies that it is him , that he was not a guard at sobibor , but he was .
i do n't care if demjanjuk is in jail or not .
i do care that he should tell the truth .
and the truth is , that he was a guard at sobibor .
sobibor was not a simple concentration camp .
sobibor was an extermination camp .
at sobibor the guards were simple murderers .
in a concentration camp a guard was a guard , … responsible -lsb- for preventing -rsb- people from running away .
but at sobibor they were simple murderers .
you said that among the guards at sobibor some were sadistic .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : demjanjuk 's wartime identification card is a major piece of evidence against him i said that they were sadistic and that some guards escaped from sobibor .
but demjanjuk did not escape .
he was there all the time with the nazis .
i do n't say that i -lsb- saw -rsb- him for sure .
-lsb- the guards -rsb- were very sadistic .
and we were more afraid of the guards than we were of the germans .
i 'm sure i know that he was a guard .
it is my duty to tell .
he should tell what sobibor was for .
what will be your reaction if there is not enough evidence to find mr. demjanjuk guilty ?
i believe that he will tell the truth , the way it was in sobibor .
and this will be part of history .
this will be -lsb- something -rsb- for the new generation to learn .
because what he has seen , few people have seen .
i strongly believe he will tell the truth .
and later demjanjuk could go free .
for me his testimony is very important , and that 's why i am in munich following demjanjuk 's story .
i am sorry in a way for demjanjuk .
he 's an old man , 89 years old .
he 's sick , he has a family .
so i 'm sorry in a way .
and i think that many people think the same way : he 's an old man , he 's suffered so much .
but i also see the other side of demjanjuk .
i see him as a terrible sadist , a murderer .
he did n't run away from his work .
interview : michael lawton editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de suspected nazi prison camp guard deported to germany the us has deported an alleged former nazi prison camp guard to germany .
jewish leaders hailed john demjanjuk 's deportation , saying they hoped it was n't too late for the 89-year-old to be brought to justice .
-lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- opinion : no statute of limitations on horrors of the holocaust after decades of judicial wrangling , the alleged nazi criminal john demjanjuk is to stand trial in germany .
on tuesday he was flown to munich and brought to a prison awaiting trial .
cornelia rabitz has this commentary : -lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- us seeks to clear path for demjanjuk deportation , again the us government has sought to clear the way to deport alleged former death camp guard john demjanjuk , just days after a us court postponed his deportation to wait for proof that he is fit to travel to germany .
-lrb- 21.04.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic michael lawton talks to raphael gross of the fritz bauer institute for holocaust studies about john demjanjuk nazi war crimes suspect john demjanjuk deported to germany -lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live tomorrow today we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live spectrum listen live oil spill inquiry a us presidential probe chides the oil industry for misjudging the dangers of deep-sea drilling .
watch the video learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan new web site check out deutsche welle 's new asia page in english .
dw asia online news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's newest media partner latin america take a multimedia journey discover the region and its people © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
sobibor survivor : demjanjuk trial will go down in history -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 16.12.2010 home news germany europe world from tierra del fuego to tijuana asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de world war ii -pipe- 13.05.2009 sobibor survivor : demjanjuk trial will go down in history großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some 250,000 jews , gypsies and political prisoners were murdered in sobibor 's gas chambers deutsche welle spoke with thomas blatt , one of few to escape from the nazi-run sobibor extermination camp .
he says he does n't care whether john demjanjuk is jailed for working at the camp , just that he tells the truth . thomas blatt was one of the few to survive the sobibor extermination camp in nazi-occupied poland during world war ii .
the 82-year-old is now a key witness in the munich trial of john demjanjuk , who is alleged to have been a guard at sobibor .
deutsche welle : why did you decide to come to germany for this trial ?
thomas blatt : because when i escaped from sobibor , i promised myself that if i survived , i will do everything to tell the story of sobibor .
and that 's what i 'm doing .
and i know that demjanjuk knows a lot , because demjanjuk was in the middle of the holocaust .
and he denies that it is him , that he was not a guard at sobibor , but he was .
i do n't care if demjanjuk is in jail or not .
i do care that he should tell the truth .
and the truth is , that he was a guard at sobibor .
sobibor was not a simple concentration camp .
sobibor was an extermination camp .
at sobibor the guards were simple murderers .
in a concentration camp a guard was a guard , … responsible -lsb- for preventing -rsb- people from running away .
but at sobibor they were simple murderers .
you said that among the guards at sobibor some were sadistic .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : demjanjuk 's wartime identification card is a major piece of evidence against him i said that they were sadistic and that some guards escaped from sobibor .
but demjanjuk did not escape .
he was there all the time with the nazis .
i do n't say that i -lsb- saw -rsb- him for sure .
-lsb- the guards -rsb- were very sadistic .
and we were more afraid of the guards than we were of the germans .
i 'm sure i know that he was a guard .
it is my duty to tell .
he should tell what sobibor was for .
what will be your reaction if there is not enough evidence to find mr. demjanjuk guilty ?
i believe that he will tell the truth , the way it was in sobibor .
and this will be part of history .
this will be -lsb- something -rsb- for the new generation to learn .
because what he has seen , few people have seen .
i strongly believe he will tell the truth .
and later demjanjuk could go free .
for me his testimony is very important , and that 's why i am in munich following demjanjuk 's story .
i am sorry in a way for demjanjuk .
he 's an old man , 89 years old .
he 's sick , he has a family .
so i 'm sorry in a way .
and i think that many people think the same way : he 's an old man , he 's suffered so much .
but i also see the other side of demjanjuk .
i see him as a terrible sadist , a murderer .
he did n't run away from his work .
interview : michael lawton editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de suspected nazi prison camp guard deported to germany the us has deported an alleged former nazi prison camp guard to germany .
jewish leaders hailed john demjanjuk 's deportation , saying they hoped it was n't too late for the 89-year-old to be brought to justice .
-lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- opinion : no statute of limitations on horrors of the holocaust after decades of judicial wrangling , the alleged nazi criminal john demjanjuk is to stand trial in germany .
on tuesday he was flown to munich and brought to a prison awaiting trial .
cornelia rabitz has this commentary : -lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- us seeks to clear path for demjanjuk deportation , again the us government has sought to clear the way to deport alleged former death camp guard john demjanjuk , just days after a us court postponed his deportation to wait for proof that he is fit to travel to germany .
-lrb- 21.04.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic michael lawton talks to raphael gross of the fritz bauer institute for holocaust studies about john demjanjuk nazi war crimes suspect john demjanjuk deported to germany -lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
focus wikileaks read our dw-world focus on the latest wikileaks revelations and their impact around the globe .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan new web site check out deutsche welle 's new asia page in english .
dw asia online latin america take a multimedia journey discover the region and its people news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's newest media partner © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
sobibor survivor : demjanjuk trial will go down in history -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 30.09.2010 home news germany europe world from tierra del fuego to tijuana asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de world war ii -pipe- 13.05.2009 sobibor survivor : demjanjuk trial will go down in history großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some 250,000 jews , gypsies and political prisoners were murdered in sobibor 's gas chambers deutsche welle spoke with thomas blatt , one of few to escape from the nazi-run sobibor extermination camp .
he says he does n't care whether john demjanjuk is jailed for working at the camp , just that he tells the truth . thomas blatt was one of the few to survive the sobibor extermination camp in nazi-occupied poland during world war ii .
the 82-year-old is now a key witness in the munich trial of john demjanjuk , who is alleged to have been a guard at sobibor .
deutsche welle : why did you decide to come to germany for this trial ?
thomas blatt : because when i escaped from sobibor , i promised myself that if i survived , i will do everything to tell the story of sobibor .
and that 's what i 'm doing .
and i know that demjanjuk knows a lot , because demjanjuk was in the middle of the holocaust .
and he denies that it is him , that he was not a guard at sobibor , but he was .
i do n't care if demjanjuk is in jail or not .
i do care that he should tell the truth .
and the truth is , that he was a guard at sobibor .
sobibor was not a simple concentration camp .
sobibor was an extermination camp .
at sobibor the guards were simple murderers .
in a concentration camp a guard was a guard , … responsible -lsb- for preventing -rsb- people from running away .
but at sobibor they were simple murderers .
you said that among the guards at sobibor some were sadistic .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : demjanjuk 's wartime identification card is a major piece of evidence against him i said that they were sadistic and that some guards escaped from sobibor .
but demjanjuk did not escape .
he was there all the time with the nazis .
i do n't say that i -lsb- saw -rsb- him for sure .
-lsb- the guards -rsb- were very sadistic .
and we were more afraid of the guards than we were of the germans .
i 'm sure i know that he was a guard .
it is my duty to tell .
he should tell what sobibor was for .
what will be your reaction if there is not enough evidence to find mr. demjanjuk guilty ?
i believe that he will tell the truth , the way it was in sobibor .
and this will be part of history .
this will be -lsb- something -rsb- for the new generation to learn .
because what he has seen , few people have seen .
i strongly believe he will tell the truth .
and later demjanjuk could go free .
for me his testimony is very important , and that 's why i am in munich following demjanjuk 's story .
i am sorry in a way for demjanjuk .
he 's an old man , 89 years old .
he 's sick , he has a family .
so i 'm sorry in a way .
and i think that many people think the same way : he 's an old man , he 's suffered so much .
but i also see the other side of demjanjuk .
i see him as a terrible sadist , a murderer .
he did n't run away from his work .
interview : michael lawton editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de suspected nazi prison camp guard deported to germany the us has deported an alleged former nazi prison camp guard to germany .
jewish leaders hailed john demjanjuk 's deportation , saying they hoped it was n't too late for the 89-year-old to be brought to justice .
-lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- opinion : no statute of limitations on horrors of the holocaust after decades of judicial wrangling , the alleged nazi criminal john demjanjuk is to stand trial in germany .
on tuesday he was flown to munich and brought to a prison awaiting trial .
cornelia rabitz has this commentary : -lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- us seeks to clear path for demjanjuk deportation , again the us government has sought to clear the way to deport alleged former death camp guard john demjanjuk , just days after a us court postponed his deportation to wait for proof that he is fit to travel to germany .
-lrb- 21.04.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic michael lawton talks to raphael gross of the fritz bauer institute for holocaust studies about john demjanjuk nazi war crimes suspect john demjanjuk deported to germany -lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live world in progress development in a globalized world listen live international relations world bank president robert zoellick talks about the challenges of a multi-lateral world .
watch the interview learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan new web site check out deutsche welle 's new asia page in english .
dw asia online news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's newest media partner latin america take a multimedia journey discover the region and its people © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
sobibor survivor : demjanjuk trial will go down in history -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 19.01.2011 home news germany europe world from tierra del fuego to tijuana asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de world war ii -pipe- 13.05.2009 sobibor survivor : demjanjuk trial will go down in history großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some 250,000 jews , gypsies and political prisoners were murdered in sobibor 's gas chambers deutsche welle spoke with thomas blatt , one of few to escape from the nazi-run sobibor extermination camp .
he says he does n't care whether john demjanjuk is jailed for working at the camp , just that he tells the truth . thomas blatt was one of the few to survive the sobibor extermination camp in nazi-occupied poland during world war ii .
the 82-year-old is now a key witness in the munich trial of john demjanjuk , who is alleged to have been a guard at sobibor .
deutsche welle : why did you decide to come to germany for this trial ?
thomas blatt : because when i escaped from sobibor , i promised myself that if i survived , i will do everything to tell the story of sobibor .
and that 's what i 'm doing .
and i know that demjanjuk knows a lot , because demjanjuk was in the middle of the holocaust .
and he denies that it is him , that he was not a guard at sobibor , but he was .
i do n't care if demjanjuk is in jail or not .
i do care that he should tell the truth .
and the truth is , that he was a guard at sobibor .
sobibor was not a simple concentration camp .
sobibor was an extermination camp .
at sobibor the guards were simple murderers .
in a concentration camp a guard was a guard , … responsible -lsb- for preventing -rsb- people from running away .
but at sobibor they were simple murderers .
you said that among the guards at sobibor some were sadistic .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : demjanjuk 's wartime identification card is a major piece of evidence against him i said that they were sadistic and that some guards escaped from sobibor .
but demjanjuk did not escape .
he was there all the time with the nazis .
i do n't say that i -lsb- saw -rsb- him for sure .
-lsb- the guards -rsb- were very sadistic .
and we were more afraid of the guards than we were of the germans .
i 'm sure i know that he was a guard .
it is my duty to tell .
he should tell what sobibor was for .
what will be your reaction if there is not enough evidence to find mr. demjanjuk guilty ?
i believe that he will tell the truth , the way it was in sobibor .
and this will be part of history .
this will be -lsb- something -rsb- for the new generation to learn .
because what he has seen , few people have seen .
i strongly believe he will tell the truth .
and later demjanjuk could go free .
for me his testimony is very important , and that 's why i am in munich following demjanjuk 's story .
i am sorry in a way for demjanjuk .
he 's an old man , 89 years old .
he 's sick , he has a family .
so i 'm sorry in a way .
and i think that many people think the same way : he 's an old man , he 's suffered so much .
but i also see the other side of demjanjuk .
i see him as a terrible sadist , a murderer .
he did n't run away from his work .
interview : michael lawton editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de suspected nazi prison camp guard deported to germany the us has deported an alleged former nazi prison camp guard to germany .
jewish leaders hailed john demjanjuk 's deportation , saying they hoped it was n't too late for the 89-year-old to be brought to justice .
-lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- opinion : no statute of limitations on horrors of the holocaust after decades of judicial wrangling , the alleged nazi criminal john demjanjuk is to stand trial in germany .
on tuesday he was flown to munich and brought to a prison awaiting trial .
cornelia rabitz has this commentary : -lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- us seeks to clear path for demjanjuk deportation , again the us government has sought to clear the way to deport alleged former death camp guard john demjanjuk , just days after a us court postponed his deportation to wait for proof that he is fit to travel to germany .
-lrb- 21.04.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic michael lawton talks to raphael gross of the fritz bauer institute for holocaust studies about john demjanjuk nazi war crimes suspect john demjanjuk deported to germany -lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan latin america take a multimedia journey discover the region and its people news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's newest media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
wolfsburg , bayern and hertha win matches -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 22.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de bundesliga -pipe- 13.05.2009 wolfsburg , bayern and hertha win matches großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : wolfsburg 's grafite celebrates bundesliga leaders vfl wolfsburg and their two main challengers bayern munich and hertha berlin showed the way on tuesday as they won their midweek league matches . hertha berlin secured a 2-1 victory at cologne .
wolfsburg beat borussia dortmund 3-0 , and bayern munich scored three times in the second half en route to a 3-0 victory over bayer leverkusen .
wolfsburg and bayern are now at the top of the table with 63 points and two games remaining , with wolfsburg just two goals better than their rivals from southern germany .
hertha berlin are a point behind the two , while vfb stuttgart could move to 61 points if they win at schalke 04 on wednesday .
the other game on tuesday saw bottom club karlsruhe sc all but relegated after giving away a 2-0 lead against hanover 96 before finally losing 3-2 .
wolfsburg striking duo grafite and edin dzeko again provided the goals that kept the northern german side at the top .
dzeko opened the scoring in the 14th minute with his 21st goal of the season , before the brazilian grafite added a second goal two minutes after the restart .
dzeko scored his second goal six minutes from the end after being set up by grafite , who heads the goal scorer standings with 24 goals .
dortmund ended the game with ten men after kevin-prince boateng was sent off in the 75th minute - just eight minutes after coming on as a substitute .
wolfsburg coach felix magath said that his side wanted to do well after losing their last game at vfb stuttgart 4-1 , adding , " we went in search of goals from the word go . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : dortmund 's head coach juergen klopp klopp believes dortmund coach juergen klopp said , “ we have the quality and at the end of the day , that will come through . "
he noted that wolfsburg played very well and said , " they deserved to win .
they are a strong side and we certainly do not think that we lost badly .
at the end of the day , the number of goals scored against us , does not matter really . "
bayern wins again in munich , the visitors were denied two penalties in the first half , but could do nothing as luca toni , franck ribery and lukas podolski scored the goals that kept bayern in the hunt for a 22nd german championship .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : jupp heynckes bayern has now won the last three games under new coach jupp heynckes , who took over when juergen klinsmann was sacked .
he changed the team on a few positions and gave germany striker podolski , who spent most of the time on the bench under klinsmann , a starting place .
podolski , who scored one goal and set up the others , saying , " we did well as a team and trained well .
i think you can see that on the field .
the new coach gave me the trust and played me from the beginning and i tried to repay him on the field . "
bayern manager uli hoeness said that his side could have won by a higher score .
" we decided not to tell the players what the other scores were and i still do not think that the championship will be decided on goal difference .
one team will still slip up . "
cicero gave berlin the lead in cologne three minutes from the break , before patrick ebert added a second midway through the second half with a shot that took a wicked deflection .
adil chihi pulled one back for cologne late in the game with his first-ever bundesliga goal .
karlsruhe looked on course for an important victory against hanover after alexander lashvili and lars stindl gave the home side a 2-0 lead after just 32 minutes .
however , sergio pinto and mikael forssell equalized matters before the break and hanno balitsch found a winner for hanover at the end of 64 minutes .
karlsruhe are last in the table with just 23 points and could be relegated on wednesday if three of the four teams directly above them win . av / ai / dpa / ap send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de wolfsburg on course for first-ever bundesliga title wolfsburg remain on target thrashing hoffenheim 4-0 as bayern win their first match in post-klinsmann era with four matches to play this season .
-lrb- 02.05.2009 -rrb- bremen ends hamburg hopes for bundesliga title bremen once again outclassed hamburg when they beat their northern german rivals 2-0 in a bundesliga match on sunday , all but killing off the side 's hopes for a league title .
-lrb- 10.05.2009 -rrb- gomez scores four as stuttgart thrashes wolfsburg mario gomez scored all four goals to take vfb stuttgart to a stunning 4-1 victory over bundesliga leaders vfl wolfsburg on saturday .
defending champions bayern munich won 3-1 against energie cottbus .
-lrb- 09.05.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results at a glance .
dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia moenchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
pope visits west bank , calls for palestinian statehood -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de religion -pipe- 13.05.2009 pope visits west bank , calls for palestinian statehood großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : palestinians gave an enthusiastic welcome to pope benedict during a visit to bethlehem , pope benedict xvi voiced support for palestinian aspirations of an independent homeland and said he hoped the wall that israel has erected in and around the west bank would come down . speaking in bethlehem after holding a mass in manger square , the pope pressed calls to remove the wall and watch towers that seal bethlehem off from jerusalem .
" towering over us ... is a stark reminder of the stalemate that relations between israelis and palestinians seem to have reached - the wall , " the pope said as he stood in the shadow of israel 's separation wall in the aida refugee camp , which houses refugees from israel 's creation in 1948 .
the pope said it 's " understandable that palestinians feel frustrated , " adding that " their legitimate aspirations for permanent homes , for an independent palestinian state , remain unfulfilled . "
the camp is home to around 5,000 refugees .
bildunterschrift : palestinian children at the aida refugee camp next to a poster of the pope " i have seen , ... overshadowing much of bethlehem , the wall that intrudes into your territories , separating neighbors and dividing families , " the pope said in the town believed to be the birthplace of jesus christ .
" although walls can be easily built , we all know that they do not last forever .
they can be taken down . "
pope lends support to palestinian statehood earlier , thousands greeted the pope 's black limousine as he made his way to manger square where he said mass for about 5,000 people next to the church of the nativity that marks the spot where christians believe jesus was born to mary in a stable .
one of the aims of the pope 's visit is to attempt to preserve a shrinking christian presence in the middle east .
the christian population of bethlehem has decreased dramatically in recent years through emigration . thousands of christians left the town after a palestinian uprising in 2000 and was met by an israeli security clampdown and the start of construction of the barrier .
the pope acknowledged israel 's security concerns as well as palestinian suffering , and urged people not to " resort to acts of violence or terrorism . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : pope benedict xvi outside of the church of the nativity in bethlehem the pope said his heart went out to those caught up in the conflict in gaza , adding that he was praying for an end to the israeli embargo of the gaza strip .
earlier , the pontiff told palestinian president mahmoud abbas that he backed the creation of a palestinian state .
" the holy see supports the right of your people to a sovereign palestinian homeland in the land of your forefathers , secure and at peace with your neighbors , within internationally recognized borders , " he said .
the pope 's comments are the vatican 's strongest and most symbolic public backing yet for an independent palestinian state .
the two-state solution is supported by abbas , arab nations and western powers .
but the new israeli prime minister , benjamin netanyahu , has declined so far to endorse it .
visit dogged by controversy the german-born pope 's week-long trip to the middle east , his first visit to the region , has not been without controversy .
on tuesday , a row erupted over the pope 's membership as a teenager of the hitler youth , as he paid a historic visit to holy sites in jerusalem .
vatican spokesman , federico lombardi , said the pontiff had " never , never , never " belonged to the organization , but later changed his version , saying that he had been a member but his membership was compulsory .
in his own 1997 memoirs , pope benedict had said he had been registered with the hitler youth while he was at a seminary .
the latest row comes on the heels of comments by some israeli leaders complaining that the pope did not go far enough in offering emotion in remarks he made on monday at the yad vashem memorial to the jewish dead of the holocaust . sp , pfd reuters / ap / dpa send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de pope continues balancing act on tour of holy sites in jerusalem pope benedict xvi became the first pope to enter a politically-charged shrine in jerusalem sacred to jews and muslims .
the pope continues to face criticism on the second day of a week-long visit to the region .
-lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- pope continues middle east tour as criticism of yad vashem speech grows pope benedict xvi used a service at jerusalem 's yad vashem memorial to express " deep compassion " for the victims of the holocaust .
but jewish leaders in germany and israel criticized the pope for not going far enough .
-lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- pope seeks to salve holocaust wounds pope benedict xvi is on his first trip to israel .
he has used a speech to seek to heal the wounds created by , among other things , his reinstatement of a holocaust-denying bishop .
-lrb- 11.05.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic pope benedict calls israel 's security barrier in the west bank " tragic " feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
pope visits west bank , calls for palestinian statehood -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 21.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de religion -pipe- 13.05.2009 pope visits west bank , calls for palestinian statehood großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : palestinians gave an enthusiastic welcome to pope benedict during a visit to bethlehem , pope benedict xvi voiced support for palestinian aspirations of an independent homeland and said he hoped the wall that israel has erected in and around the west bank would come down . speaking in bethlehem after holding a mass in manger square , the pope pressed calls to remove the wall and watch towers that seal bethlehem off from jerusalem .
" towering over us ... is a stark reminder of the stalemate that relations between israelis and palestinians seem to have reached - the wall , " the pope said as he stood in the shadow of israel 's separation wall in the aida refugee camp , which houses refugees from israel 's creation in 1948 .
the pope said it 's " understandable that palestinians feel frustrated , " adding that " their legitimate aspirations for permanent homes , for an independent palestinian state , remain unfulfilled . "
the camp is home to around 5,000 refugees .
bildunterschrift : palestinian children at the aida refugee camp next to a poster of the pope " i have seen , ... overshadowing much of bethlehem , the wall that intrudes into your territories , separating neighbors and dividing families , " the pope said in the town believed to be the birthplace of jesus christ .
" although walls can be easily built , we all know that they do not last forever .
they can be taken down . "
pope lends support to palestinian statehood earlier , thousands greeted the pope 's black limousine as he made his way to manger square where he said mass for about 5,000 people next to the church of the nativity that marks the spot where christians believe jesus was born to mary in a stable .
one of the aims of the pope 's visit is to attempt to preserve a shrinking christian presence in the middle east .
the christian population of bethlehem has decreased dramatically in recent years through emigration . thousands of christians left the town after a palestinian uprising in 2000 and was met by an israeli security clampdown and the start of construction of the barrier .
the pope acknowledged israel 's security concerns as well as palestinian suffering , and urged people not to " resort to acts of violence or terrorism . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : pope benedict xvi outside of the church of the nativity in bethlehem the pope said his heart went out to those caught up in the conflict in gaza , adding that he was praying for an end to the israeli embargo of the gaza strip .
earlier , the pontiff told palestinian president mahmoud abbas that he backed the creation of a palestinian state .
" the holy see supports the right of your people to a sovereign palestinian homeland in the land of your forefathers , secure and at peace with your neighbors , within internationally recognized borders , " he said .
the pope 's comments are the vatican 's strongest and most symbolic public backing yet for an independent palestinian state .
the two-state solution is supported by abbas , arab nations and western powers .
but the new israeli prime minister , benjamin netanyahu , has declined so far to endorse it .
visit dogged by controversy the german-born pope 's week-long trip to the middle east , his first visit to the region , has not been without controversy .
on tuesday , a row erupted over the pope 's membership as a teenager of the hitler youth , as he paid a historic visit to holy sites in jerusalem .
vatican spokesman , federico lombardi , said the pontiff had " never , never , never " belonged to the organization , but later changed his version , saying that he had been a member but his membership was compulsory .
in his own 1997 memoirs , pope benedict had said he had been registered with the hitler youth while he was at a seminary .
the latest row comes on the heels of comments by some israeli leaders complaining that the pope did not go far enough in offering emotion in remarks he made on monday at the yad vashem memorial to the jewish dead of the holocaust . sp , pfd reuters / ap / dpa send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de pope continues balancing act on tour of holy sites in jerusalem pope benedict xvi became the first pope to enter a politically-charged shrine in jerusalem sacred to jews and muslims .
the pope continues to face criticism on the second day of a week-long visit to the region .
-lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- pope continues middle east tour as criticism of yad vashem speech grows pope benedict xvi used a service at jerusalem 's yad vashem memorial to express " deep compassion " for the victims of the holocaust .
but jewish leaders in germany and israel criticized the pope for not going far enough .
-lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- pope seeks to salve holocaust wounds pope benedict xvi is on his first trip to israel .
he has used a speech to seek to heal the wounds created by , among other things , his reinstatement of a holocaust-denying bishop .
-lrb- 11.05.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic pope benedict calls israel 's security barrier in the west bank " tragic " feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
berlin unveils plan to help rid banks of toxic assets -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 04.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de economy -pipe- 13.05.2009 berlin unveils plan to help rid banks of toxic assets großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : banks can now move to clean up their balance sheets the german cabinet has approved a draft law to help rid lenders of an estimated 200 billion euros -lrb- $ 272 billion -rrb- in worthless assets .
banks can swap the assets against guaranteed state loans for up to 20 years . the aim of the " bad bank " plan is to clean up lenders ' balance sheets and restore confidence in the financial sector .
the bill , drafted by finance minister peer steinbrueck , would enable banks to receive state guaranteed loans on commercial terms , in exchange for offloading their troubled assets .
through the government 's financial market stabilization fund , soffin , lenders would be able to swap toxic assets for guaranteed state loans worth 90 percent of the original value of the assets .
lenders would pay an annual fee and be able to " freeze " the assets until better times come along . after a maximum of 20 years , they would have to pay back any losses to the government .
some believe the german banks hold more than 200 billion euros of troubled assets .
" in the interests of the real economy , we are buying time so that the so-called toxic assets can be cleared up , " explained chancellor angela merkel 's chief of staff , thomas de maiziere .
what 's worthless today , may not be tomorrow bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : german finance minister peer steinbrueck says taxpayers will not foot the bill " it 's not clear how toxic these assets really are , " said finance expert , otto salms of the liberal free democrats -lrb- fdp -rrb- .
" some of these assets may well be worth more again once the crisis ends and the economy recovers .
if that 's the case , the banks may end up having to write off much less at a later date than they would if they were forced to liquidate these assets today . "
economic recovery and financial liquidity go hand in hand .
one of the factors that 's been driving the crisis around the world is that banks have stopped lending to each other because they have n't been able to assess the size of the financial black holes on each other 's balance sheets .
berlin hopes that by removing bad holdings from balance sheets banks will start lending to each other again , as well as to businesses and consumers .
this in turn would help kick-start the german economy , the biggest in europe , which is expected to shrink by six percent this year .
shareholders , not taxpayers , to bear the burden under the plan , which comes five months before a general election , any liabilities at the end of maturity would accrue to shareholders , and not to the taxpayer .
" it 's only right that whoever made profits through taking high risks over the years , must also be prepared to take the losses , " explained financial expert johannes kahrs , of the social democrats -lrb- spd -rrb- , the coalition partners of chancellor angela merkel 's christian democrats -lrb- cdu -rrb- . "
i think that 's reasonable , it 's a basic economic principle . "
some critics say the scheme is flawed because it is voluntary .
banks are not to be forced to dispose of toxic assets through the soffin national rescue program .
the government insists that " good banks " are interesting for investors and a cleaned up , reliable balance sheet will attract capital .
the draft legislation still has to go before both the lower and upper houses of parliament , the bundestag und bundesrat . wl / pfd / afp / ard send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de financial watchdog chief calls for " bad bank " for toxic assets the head of a watchdog committee of germany 's bank stabilization fund has called for the creation of a " bad bank " that could buy up toxic assets and unblock interbank lending .
-lrb- 11.01.2009 -rrb- us mortgage crisis hits german banks the battered subprime mortgage market in the united states is increasingly impacting the us economy .
now , losses from risky us home loans to borrowers with poor credit histories have swept across the atlantic .
-lrb- 31.07.2007 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic the german cabinet backs plan to relieve the country 's banks of their toxic assets 9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit tagesthema we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
art german photographer lala aufsberg 's work is a fascinating historical record of the 20th century .
watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
wolfsburg , bayern and hertha win matches -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de bundesliga -pipe- 13.05.2009 wolfsburg , bayern and hertha win matches großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : wolfsburg 's grafite celebrates bundesliga leaders vfl wolfsburg and their two main challengers bayern munich and hertha berlin showed the way on tuesday as they won their midweek league matches . hertha berlin secured a 2-1 victory at cologne .
wolfsburg beat borussia dortmund 3-0 , and bayern munich scored three times in the second half en route to a 3-0 victory over bayer leverkusen .
wolfsburg and bayern are now at the top of the table with 63 points and two games remaining , with wolfsburg just two goals better than their rivals from southern germany .
hertha berlin are a point behind the two , while vfb stuttgart could move to 61 points if they win at schalke 04 on wednesday .
the other game on tuesday saw bottom club karlsruhe sc all but relegated after giving away a 2-0 lead against hanover 96 before finally losing 3-2 .
wolfsburg striking duo grafite and edin dzeko again provided the goals that kept the northern german side at the top .
dzeko opened the scoring in the 14th minute with his 21st goal of the season , before the brazilian grafite added a second goal two minutes after the restart .
dzeko scored his second goal six minutes from the end after being set up by grafite , who heads the goal scorer standings with 24 goals .
dortmund ended the game with ten men after kevin-prince boateng was sent off in the 75th minute - just eight minutes after coming on as a substitute .
wolfsburg coach felix magath said that his side wanted to do well after losing their last game at vfb stuttgart 4-1 , adding , " we went in search of goals from the word go . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : dortmund 's head coach juergen klopp klopp believes dortmund coach juergen klopp said , “ we have the quality and at the end of the day , that will come through . "
he noted that wolfsburg played very well and said , " they deserved to win .
they are a strong side and we certainly do not think that we lost badly .
at the end of the day , the number of goals scored against us , does not matter really . "
bayern wins again in munich , the visitors were denied two penalties in the first half , but could do nothing as luca toni , franck ribery and lukas podolski scored the goals that kept bayern in the hunt for a 22nd german championship .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : jupp heynckes bayern has now won the last three games under new coach jupp heynckes , who took over when juergen klinsmann was sacked .
he changed the team on a few positions and gave germany striker podolski , who spent most of the time on the bench under klinsmann , a starting place .
podolski , who scored one goal and set up the others , saying , " we did well as a team and trained well .
i think you can see that on the field .
the new coach gave me the trust and played me from the beginning and i tried to repay him on the field . "
bayern manager uli hoeness said that his side could have won by a higher score .
" we decided not to tell the players what the other scores were and i still do not think that the championship will be decided on goal difference .
one team will still slip up . "
cicero gave berlin the lead in cologne three minutes from the break , before patrick ebert added a second midway through the second half with a shot that took a wicked deflection .
adil chihi pulled one back for cologne late in the game with his first-ever bundesliga goal .
karlsruhe looked on course for an important victory against hanover after alexander lashvili and lars stindl gave the home side a 2-0 lead after just 32 minutes .
however , sergio pinto and mikael forssell equalized matters before the break and hanno balitsch found a winner for hanover at the end of 64 minutes .
karlsruhe are last in the table with just 23 points and could be relegated on wednesday if three of the four teams directly above them win . av / ai / dpa / ap send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de wolfsburg on course for first-ever bundesliga title wolfsburg remain on target thrashing hoffenheim 4-0 as bayern win their first match in post-klinsmann era with four matches to play this season .
-lrb- 02.05.2009 -rrb- bremen ends hamburg hopes for bundesliga title bremen once again outclassed hamburg when they beat their northern german rivals 2-0 in a bundesliga match on sunday , all but killing off the side 's hopes for a league title .
-lrb- 10.05.2009 -rrb- gomez scores four as stuttgart thrashes wolfsburg mario gomez scored all four goals to take vfb stuttgart to a stunning 4-1 victory over bundesliga leaders vfl wolfsburg on saturday .
defending champions bayern munich won 3-1 against energie cottbus .
-lrb- 09.05.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report bundesliga predictions match day nine picks the dw sports team picks the scores in the bundesliga ... for the ninth time .
scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results at a glance .
dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia moenchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
wolfsburg , bayern and hertha win matches -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 19.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de bundesliga -pipe- 13.05.2009 wolfsburg , bayern and hertha win matches großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : wolfsburg 's grafite celebrates bundesliga leaders vfl wolfsburg and their two main challengers bayern munich and hertha berlin showed the way on tuesday as they won their midweek league matches . hertha berlin secured a 2-1 victory at cologne .
wolfsburg beat borussia dortmund 3-0 , and bayern munich scored three times in the second half en route to a 3-0 victory over bayer leverkusen .
wolfsburg and bayern are now at the top of the table with 63 points and two games remaining , with wolfsburg just two goals better than their rivals from southern germany .
hertha berlin are a point behind the two , while vfb stuttgart could move to 61 points if they win at schalke 04 on wednesday .
the other game on tuesday saw bottom club karlsruhe sc all but relegated after giving away a 2-0 lead against hanover 96 before finally losing 3-2 .
wolfsburg striking duo grafite and edin dzeko again provided the goals that kept the northern german side at the top .
dzeko opened the scoring in the 14th minute with his 21st goal of the season , before the brazilian grafite added a second goal two minutes after the restart .
dzeko scored his second goal six minutes from the end after being set up by grafite , who heads the goal scorer standings with 24 goals .
dortmund ended the game with ten men after kevin-prince boateng was sent off in the 75th minute - just eight minutes after coming on as a substitute .
wolfsburg coach felix magath said that his side wanted to do well after losing their last game at vfb stuttgart 4-1 , adding , " we went in search of goals from the word go . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : dortmund 's head coach juergen klopp klopp believes dortmund coach juergen klopp said , “ we have the quality and at the end of the day , that will come through . "
he noted that wolfsburg played very well and said , " they deserved to win .
they are a strong side and we certainly do not think that we lost badly .
at the end of the day , the number of goals scored against us , does not matter really . "
bayern wins again in munich , the visitors were denied two penalties in the first half , but could do nothing as luca toni , franck ribery and lukas podolski scored the goals that kept bayern in the hunt for a 22nd german championship .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : jupp heynckes bayern has now won the last three games under new coach jupp heynckes , who took over when juergen klinsmann was sacked .
he changed the team on a few positions and gave germany striker podolski , who spent most of the time on the bench under klinsmann , a starting place .
podolski , who scored one goal and set up the others , saying , " we did well as a team and trained well .
i think you can see that on the field .
the new coach gave me the trust and played me from the beginning and i tried to repay him on the field . "
bayern manager uli hoeness said that his side could have won by a higher score .
" we decided not to tell the players what the other scores were and i still do not think that the championship will be decided on goal difference .
one team will still slip up . "
cicero gave berlin the lead in cologne three minutes from the break , before patrick ebert added a second midway through the second half with a shot that took a wicked deflection .
adil chihi pulled one back for cologne late in the game with his first-ever bundesliga goal .
karlsruhe looked on course for an important victory against hanover after alexander lashvili and lars stindl gave the home side a 2-0 lead after just 32 minutes .
however , sergio pinto and mikael forssell equalized matters before the break and hanno balitsch found a winner for hanover at the end of 64 minutes .
karlsruhe are last in the table with just 23 points and could be relegated on wednesday if three of the four teams directly above them win . av / ai / dpa / ap send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de wolfsburg on course for first-ever bundesliga title wolfsburg remain on target thrashing hoffenheim 4-0 as bayern win their first match in post-klinsmann era with four matches to play this season .
-lrb- 02.05.2009 -rrb- bremen ends hamburg hopes for bundesliga title bremen once again outclassed hamburg when they beat their northern german rivals 2-0 in a bundesliga match on sunday , all but killing off the side 's hopes for a league title .
-lrb- 10.05.2009 -rrb- gomez scores four as stuttgart thrashes wolfsburg mario gomez scored all four goals to take vfb stuttgart to a stunning 4-1 victory over bundesliga leaders vfl wolfsburg on saturday .
defending champions bayern munich won 3-1 against energie cottbus .
-lrb- 09.05.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live bundesliga predictions wakey wakey ! !
dw 's pundits - and the bundesliga - come out of hibernation with the match day 18 predictions .
dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report high scorer freiburg 's papiss demba cisse opens up to dw-tv 's bundesliga kick off ! about his goalscoring ways .
watch the report scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results at a glance .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia moenchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
wolfsburg , bayern and hertha win matches -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 01.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de bundesliga -pipe- 13.05.2009 wolfsburg , bayern and hertha win matches großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : wolfsburg 's grafite celebrates bundesliga leaders vfl wolfsburg and their two main challengers bayern munich and hertha berlin showed the way on tuesday as they won their midweek league matches . hertha berlin secured a 2-1 victory at cologne .
wolfsburg beat borussia dortmund 3-0 , and bayern munich scored three times in the second half en route to a 3-0 victory over bayer leverkusen .
wolfsburg and bayern are now at the top of the table with 63 points and two games remaining , with wolfsburg just two goals better than their rivals from southern germany .
hertha berlin are a point behind the two , while vfb stuttgart could move to 61 points if they win at schalke 04 on wednesday .
the other game on tuesday saw bottom club karlsruhe sc all but relegated after giving away a 2-0 lead against hanover 96 before finally losing 3-2 .
wolfsburg striking duo grafite and edin dzeko again provided the goals that kept the northern german side at the top .
dzeko opened the scoring in the 14th minute with his 21st goal of the season , before the brazilian grafite added a second goal two minutes after the restart .
dzeko scored his second goal six minutes from the end after being set up by grafite , who heads the goal scorer standings with 24 goals .
dortmund ended the game with ten men after kevin-prince boateng was sent off in the 75th minute - just eight minutes after coming on as a substitute .
wolfsburg coach felix magath said that his side wanted to do well after losing their last game at vfb stuttgart 4-1 , adding , " we went in search of goals from the word go . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : dortmund 's head coach juergen klopp klopp believes dortmund coach juergen klopp said , “ we have the quality and at the end of the day , that will come through . "
he noted that wolfsburg played very well and said , " they deserved to win .
they are a strong side and we certainly do not think that we lost badly .
at the end of the day , the number of goals scored against us , does not matter really . "
bayern wins again in munich , the visitors were denied two penalties in the first half , but could do nothing as luca toni , franck ribery and lukas podolski scored the goals that kept bayern in the hunt for a 22nd german championship .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : jupp heynckes bayern has now won the last three games under new coach jupp heynckes , who took over when juergen klinsmann was sacked .
he changed the team on a few positions and gave germany striker podolski , who spent most of the time on the bench under klinsmann , a starting place .
podolski , who scored one goal and set up the others , saying , " we did well as a team and trained well .
i think you can see that on the field .
the new coach gave me the trust and played me from the beginning and i tried to repay him on the field . "
bayern manager uli hoeness said that his side could have won by a higher score .
" we decided not to tell the players what the other scores were and i still do not think that the championship will be decided on goal difference .
one team will still slip up . "
cicero gave berlin the lead in cologne three minutes from the break , before patrick ebert added a second midway through the second half with a shot that took a wicked deflection .
adil chihi pulled one back for cologne late in the game with his first-ever bundesliga goal .
karlsruhe looked on course for an important victory against hanover after alexander lashvili and lars stindl gave the home side a 2-0 lead after just 32 minutes .
however , sergio pinto and mikael forssell equalized matters before the break and hanno balitsch found a winner for hanover at the end of 64 minutes .
karlsruhe are last in the table with just 23 points and could be relegated on wednesday if three of the four teams directly above them win . av / ai / dpa / ap send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de wolfsburg on course for first-ever bundesliga title wolfsburg remain on target thrashing hoffenheim 4-0 as bayern win their first match in post-klinsmann era with four matches to play this season .
-lrb- 02.05.2009 -rrb- bremen ends hamburg hopes for bundesliga title bremen once again outclassed hamburg when they beat their northern german rivals 2-0 in a bundesliga match on sunday , all but killing off the side 's hopes for a league title .
-lrb- 10.05.2009 -rrb- gomez scores four as stuttgart thrashes wolfsburg mario gomez scored all four goals to take vfb stuttgart to a stunning 4-1 victory over bundesliga leaders vfl wolfsburg on saturday .
defending champions bayern munich won 3-1 against energie cottbus .
-lrb- 09.05.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 dw-tv europe live made in germany we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live spectrum listen live dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report bundesliga predictions hands down dw pundits hope a palm and 50 cents are all it takes to get the scores right on match day 14 .
scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results at a glance .
dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia moenchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg cantona 's revolution former footballer , now actor eric cantona wants to start a revolution targetting the banks .
listen to the report © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
wolfsburg , bayern and hertha win matches -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 16.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de bundesliga -pipe- 13.05.2009 wolfsburg , bayern and hertha win matches großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : wolfsburg 's grafite celebrates bundesliga leaders vfl wolfsburg and their two main challengers bayern munich and hertha berlin showed the way on tuesday as they won their midweek league matches . hertha berlin secured a 2-1 victory at cologne .
wolfsburg beat borussia dortmund 3-0 , and bayern munich scored three times in the second half en route to a 3-0 victory over bayer leverkusen .
wolfsburg and bayern are now at the top of the table with 63 points and two games remaining , with wolfsburg just two goals better than their rivals from southern germany .
hertha berlin are a point behind the two , while vfb stuttgart could move to 61 points if they win at schalke 04 on wednesday .
the other game on tuesday saw bottom club karlsruhe sc all but relegated after giving away a 2-0 lead against hanover 96 before finally losing 3-2 .
wolfsburg striking duo grafite and edin dzeko again provided the goals that kept the northern german side at the top .
dzeko opened the scoring in the 14th minute with his 21st goal of the season , before the brazilian grafite added a second goal two minutes after the restart .
dzeko scored his second goal six minutes from the end after being set up by grafite , who heads the goal scorer standings with 24 goals .
dortmund ended the game with ten men after kevin-prince boateng was sent off in the 75th minute - just eight minutes after coming on as a substitute .
wolfsburg coach felix magath said that his side wanted to do well after losing their last game at vfb stuttgart 4-1 , adding , " we went in search of goals from the word go . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : dortmund 's head coach juergen klopp klopp believes dortmund coach juergen klopp said , “ we have the quality and at the end of the day , that will come through . "
he noted that wolfsburg played very well and said , " they deserved to win .
they are a strong side and we certainly do not think that we lost badly .
at the end of the day , the number of goals scored against us , does not matter really . "
bayern wins again in munich , the visitors were denied two penalties in the first half , but could do nothing as luca toni , franck ribery and lukas podolski scored the goals that kept bayern in the hunt for a 22nd german championship .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : jupp heynckes bayern has now won the last three games under new coach jupp heynckes , who took over when juergen klinsmann was sacked .
he changed the team on a few positions and gave germany striker podolski , who spent most of the time on the bench under klinsmann , a starting place .
podolski , who scored one goal and set up the others , saying , " we did well as a team and trained well .
i think you can see that on the field .
the new coach gave me the trust and played me from the beginning and i tried to repay him on the field . "
bayern manager uli hoeness said that his side could have won by a higher score .
" we decided not to tell the players what the other scores were and i still do not think that the championship will be decided on goal difference .
one team will still slip up . "
cicero gave berlin the lead in cologne three minutes from the break , before patrick ebert added a second midway through the second half with a shot that took a wicked deflection .
adil chihi pulled one back for cologne late in the game with his first-ever bundesliga goal .
karlsruhe looked on course for an important victory against hanover after alexander lashvili and lars stindl gave the home side a 2-0 lead after just 32 minutes .
however , sergio pinto and mikael forssell equalized matters before the break and hanno balitsch found a winner for hanover at the end of 64 minutes .
karlsruhe are last in the table with just 23 points and could be relegated on wednesday if three of the four teams directly above them win . av / ai / dpa / ap send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de wolfsburg on course for first-ever bundesliga title wolfsburg remain on target thrashing hoffenheim 4-0 as bayern win their first match in post-klinsmann era with four matches to play this season .
-lrb- 02.05.2009 -rrb- bremen ends hamburg hopes for bundesliga title bremen once again outclassed hamburg when they beat their northern german rivals 2-0 in a bundesliga match on sunday , all but killing off the side 's hopes for a league title .
-lrb- 10.05.2009 -rrb- gomez scores four as stuttgart thrashes wolfsburg mario gomez scored all four goals to take vfb stuttgart to a stunning 4-1 victory over bundesliga leaders vfl wolfsburg on saturday .
defending champions bayern munich won 3-1 against energie cottbus .
-lrb- 09.05.2009 -rrb- 9799 dw-tv europe live popxport - das deutsche musikmagazin we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inside europe listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-radio listen to the latest from german soccer on dw-radio .
sports report anti-racism girls wanted : scouting for germany 's next generation of female football talent listen to the audio art women 's football - a source of inspiration watch the video video women 's soccer is more popular than ever in the us .
watch the video final standings click here for the final 2010-11 bundesliga table . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
wolfsburg , bayern and hertha win matches -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 10.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de bundesliga -pipe- 13.05.2009 wolfsburg , bayern and hertha win matches großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : wolfsburg 's grafite celebrates bundesliga leaders vfl wolfsburg and their two main challengers bayern munich and hertha berlin showed the way on tuesday as they won their midweek league matches . hertha berlin secured a 2-1 victory at cologne .
wolfsburg beat borussia dortmund 3-0 , and bayern munich scored three times in the second half en route to a 3-0 victory over bayer leverkusen .
wolfsburg and bayern are now at the top of the table with 63 points and two games remaining , with wolfsburg just two goals better than their rivals from southern germany .
hertha berlin are a point behind the two , while vfb stuttgart could move to 61 points if they win at schalke 04 on wednesday .
the other game on tuesday saw bottom club karlsruhe sc all but relegated after giving away a 2-0 lead against hanover 96 before finally losing 3-2 .
wolfsburg striking duo grafite and edin dzeko again provided the goals that kept the northern german side at the top .
dzeko opened the scoring in the 14th minute with his 21st goal of the season , before the brazilian grafite added a second goal two minutes after the restart .
dzeko scored his second goal six minutes from the end after being set up by grafite , who heads the goal scorer standings with 24 goals .
dortmund ended the game with ten men after kevin-prince boateng was sent off in the 75th minute - just eight minutes after coming on as a substitute .
wolfsburg coach felix magath said that his side wanted to do well after losing their last game at vfb stuttgart 4-1 , adding , " we went in search of goals from the word go . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : dortmund 's head coach juergen klopp klopp believes dortmund coach juergen klopp said , “ we have the quality and at the end of the day , that will come through . "
he noted that wolfsburg played very well and said , " they deserved to win .
they are a strong side and we certainly do not think that we lost badly .
at the end of the day , the number of goals scored against us , does not matter really . "
bayern wins again in munich , the visitors were denied two penalties in the first half , but could do nothing as luca toni , franck ribery and lukas podolski scored the goals that kept bayern in the hunt for a 22nd german championship .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : jupp heynckes bayern has now won the last three games under new coach jupp heynckes , who took over when juergen klinsmann was sacked .
he changed the team on a few positions and gave germany striker podolski , who spent most of the time on the bench under klinsmann , a starting place .
podolski , who scored one goal and set up the others , saying , " we did well as a team and trained well .
i think you can see that on the field .
the new coach gave me the trust and played me from the beginning and i tried to repay him on the field . "
bayern manager uli hoeness said that his side could have won by a higher score .
" we decided not to tell the players what the other scores were and i still do not think that the championship will be decided on goal difference .
one team will still slip up . "
cicero gave berlin the lead in cologne three minutes from the break , before patrick ebert added a second midway through the second half with a shot that took a wicked deflection .
adil chihi pulled one back for cologne late in the game with his first-ever bundesliga goal .
karlsruhe looked on course for an important victory against hanover after alexander lashvili and lars stindl gave the home side a 2-0 lead after just 32 minutes .
however , sergio pinto and mikael forssell equalized matters before the break and hanno balitsch found a winner for hanover at the end of 64 minutes .
karlsruhe are last in the table with just 23 points and could be relegated on wednesday if three of the four teams directly above them win . av / ai / dpa / ap send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de wolfsburg on course for first-ever bundesliga title wolfsburg remain on target thrashing hoffenheim 4-0 as bayern win their first match in post-klinsmann era with four matches to play this season .
-lrb- 02.05.2009 -rrb- bremen ends hamburg hopes for bundesliga title bremen once again outclassed hamburg when they beat their northern german rivals 2-0 in a bundesliga match on sunday , all but killing off the side 's hopes for a league title .
-lrb- 10.05.2009 -rrb- gomez scores four as stuttgart thrashes wolfsburg mario gomez scored all four goals to take vfb stuttgart to a stunning 4-1 victory over bundesliga leaders vfl wolfsburg on saturday .
defending champions bayern munich won 3-1 against energie cottbus .
-lrb- 09.05.2009 -rrb- 9799 dw-tv europe live journal - news with business we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio listen to the latest from german soccer on dw-radio .
sports report © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
french lawmakers to pull the plug on internet pirates -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 11.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de internet -pipe- 13.05.2009 french lawmakers to pull the plug on internet pirates großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : sarkozy championed the new legislation france has passed a bill that will let authorities track illegal downloading over the internet and disconnect repeat offenders .
opponents are critical of the law , arguing that access to the web is a fundamental right . the french senate on wednesday overwhelmingly voted into law a controversial measure that will cut off internet access to people who repeatedly download copyrighted music , films or video games without paying .
the vote , which had already passed the lower house by a narrow margin on tuesday , represents a success for president nicolas sarkozy , who championed the groundbreaking law .
the opposition socialists alienated many of their traditional supporters in the arts world by fighting the move .
the legislation aims to protect the revenues of record and film companies and recording artists .
after two warnings pirates will be cut off the tough new laws would punish music download pirates by shutting off their internet access for up to a year .
under the terms of the bill , internet pirates will receive two warnings , but their internet connection will be cut after the third offence .
during the time they are disconnected , they will have to continue paying their internet provider .
the music and film industries in france and abroad have shown wide support for the bill , but consumer groups and the socialist opposition have warned it would be difficult to implement .
opponents have criticized the penalties , and say access to the internet should be a fundamental right .
consumer groups said they feared intrusive monitoring of online activity and warn that innocent users may be unfairly punished if hackers use their accounts to download files .
the new law 's introduction onto the statute books is likely to be delayed by at least a month .
opponents have promised to challenge the legislation in france 's top court . ch / ncy / afp / reuters send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de major german online companies agree to block child porn websites german internet providers have grudgingly agreed to block websites containing child pornography .
critics say their deal with the government wo n't make much of a difference .
-lrb- 17.04.2009 -rrb- german artists defend copyright in google era google might reign as the unchallenged king of german search engines , but a lawsuit over the company 's popular image search feature brings into question the rights of german artists in the internet age .
-lrb- 21.10.2008 -rrb- new data law could benefit music pirates germany 's music industry fears that a new telephone data law could become a carte blanche for internet users , who download tunes illegally .
until now , they 've traced music pirates with the help of phone records .
-lrb- 30.03.2008 -rrb- 9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live kino - the german film magazine we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live european business week food , gas and patriotism listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
europe 's borders african refugees flee unrest and arrive on island of malta with hopes for a better life .
watch the video art glass art has been made on the island of murano for centuries , but it still has an exciting future .
watch the video nuclear energy politicians in nuclear giant france decry germany 's decision to abandon the technology .
listen to the audio europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
french lawmakers to pull the plug on internet pirates -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 17.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de internet -pipe- 13.05.2009 french lawmakers to pull the plug on internet pirates großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : sarkozy championed the new legislation france has passed a bill that will let authorities track illegal downloading over the internet and disconnect repeat offenders .
opponents are critical of the law , arguing that access to the web is a fundamental right . the french senate on wednesday overwhelmingly voted into law a controversial measure that will cut off internet access to people who repeatedly download copyrighted music , films or video games without paying .
the vote , which had already passed the lower house by a narrow margin on tuesday , represents a success for president nicolas sarkozy , who championed the groundbreaking law .
the opposition socialists alienated many of their traditional supporters in the arts world by fighting the move .
the legislation aims to protect the revenues of record and film companies and recording artists .
after two warnings pirates will be cut off the tough new laws would punish music download pirates by shutting off their internet access for up to a year .
under the terms of the bill , internet pirates will receive two warnings , but their internet connection will be cut after the third offence .
during the time they are disconnected , they will have to continue paying their internet provider .
the music and film industries in france and abroad have shown wide support for the bill , but consumer groups and the socialist opposition have warned it would be difficult to implement .
opponents have criticized the penalties , and say access to the internet should be a fundamental right .
consumer groups said they feared intrusive monitoring of online activity and warn that innocent users may be unfairly punished if hackers use their accounts to download files .
the new law 's introduction onto the statute books is likely to be delayed by at least a month .
opponents have promised to challenge the legislation in france 's top court . ch / ncy / afp / reuters send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de major german online companies agree to block child porn websites german internet providers have grudgingly agreed to block websites containing child pornography .
critics say their deal with the government wo n't make much of a difference .
-lrb- 17.04.2009 -rrb- german artists defend copyright in google era google might reign as the unchallenged king of german search engines , but a lawsuit over the company 's popular image search feature brings into question the rights of german artists in the internet age .
-lrb- 21.10.2008 -rrb- new data law could benefit music pirates germany 's music industry fears that a new telephone data law could become a carte blanche for internet users , who download tunes illegally .
until now , they 've traced music pirates with the help of phone records .
-lrb- 30.03.2008 -rrb- 9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - news with interview we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live radio d listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
austria there is no mention of women in the austrian national anthem , but that is about to change .
listen to the audio education british parents are responding to government education cuts by setting up their own schools .
watch the video urban exploration ruins of buildings in belgium are eyesores for some , but gateways to urban exploration for others .
watch the video inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
the rhino mafia where to serve ?
soliders with dual citizenship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
french lawmakers to pull the plug on internet pirates -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 28.10.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de internet -pipe- 13.05.2009 french lawmakers to pull the plug on internet pirates großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : sarkozy championed the new legislation france has passed a bill that will let authorities track illegal downloading over the internet and disconnect repeat offenders .
opponents are critical of the law , arguing that access to the web is a fundamental right . the french senate on wednesday overwhelmingly voted into law a controversial measure that will cut off internet access to people who repeatedly download copyrighted music , films or video games without paying .
the vote , which had already passed the lower house by a narrow margin on tuesday , represents a success for president nicolas sarkozy , who championed the groundbreaking law .
the opposition socialists alienated many of their traditional supporters in the arts world by fighting the move .
the legislation aims to protect the revenues of record and film companies and recording artists .
after two warnings pirates will be cut off the tough new laws would punish music download pirates by shutting off their internet access for up to a year .
under the terms of the bill , internet pirates will receive two warnings , but their internet connection will be cut after the third offence .
during the time they are disconnected , they will have to continue paying their internet provider .
the music and film industries in france and abroad have shown wide support for the bill , but consumer groups and the socialist opposition have warned it would be difficult to implement .
opponents have criticized the penalties , and say access to the internet should be a fundamental right .
consumer groups said they feared intrusive monitoring of online activity and warn that innocent users may be unfairly punished if hackers use their accounts to download files .
the new law 's introduction onto the statute books is likely to be delayed by at least a month .
opponents have promised to challenge the legislation in france 's top court . ch / ncy / afp / reuters send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de major german online companies agree to block child porn websites german internet providers have grudgingly agreed to block websites containing child pornography .
critics say their deal with the government wo n't make much of a difference .
-lrb- 17.04.2009 -rrb- german artists defend copyright in google era google might reign as the unchallenged king of german search engines , but a lawsuit over the company 's popular image search feature brings into question the rights of german artists in the internet age .
-lrb- 21.10.2008 -rrb- new data law could benefit music pirates germany 's music industry fears that a new telephone data law could become a carte blanche for internet users , who download tunes illegally .
until now , they 've traced music pirates with the help of phone records .
-lrb- 30.03.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live motor mobil we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live world in progress development in a globalized world listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
quo vadis bosnia ?
betancourt book sparks controversy in france technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
french lawmakers to pull the plug on internet pirates -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 19.01.2011 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de internet -pipe- 13.05.2009 french lawmakers to pull the plug on internet pirates großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : sarkozy championed the new legislation france has passed a bill that will let authorities track illegal downloading over the internet and disconnect repeat offenders .
opponents are critical of the law , arguing that access to the web is a fundamental right . the french senate on wednesday overwhelmingly voted into law a controversial measure that will cut off internet access to people who repeatedly download copyrighted music , films or video games without paying .
the vote , which had already passed the lower house by a narrow margin on tuesday , represents a success for president nicolas sarkozy , who championed the groundbreaking law .
the opposition socialists alienated many of their traditional supporters in the arts world by fighting the move .
the legislation aims to protect the revenues of record and film companies and recording artists .
after two warnings pirates will be cut off the tough new laws would punish music download pirates by shutting off their internet access for up to a year .
under the terms of the bill , internet pirates will receive two warnings , but their internet connection will be cut after the third offence .
during the time they are disconnected , they will have to continue paying their internet provider .
the music and film industries in france and abroad have shown wide support for the bill , but consumer groups and the socialist opposition have warned it would be difficult to implement .
opponents have criticized the penalties , and say access to the internet should be a fundamental right .
consumer groups said they feared intrusive monitoring of online activity and warn that innocent users may be unfairly punished if hackers use their accounts to download files .
the new law 's introduction onto the statute books is likely to be delayed by at least a month .
opponents have promised to challenge the legislation in france 's top court . ch / ncy / afp / reuters send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de major german online companies agree to block child porn websites german internet providers have grudgingly agreed to block websites containing child pornography .
critics say their deal with the government wo n't make much of a difference .
-lrb- 17.04.2009 -rrb- german artists defend copyright in google era google might reign as the unchallenged king of german search engines , but a lawsuit over the company 's popular image search feature brings into question the rights of german artists in the internet age .
-lrb- 21.10.2008 -rrb- new data law could benefit music pirates germany 's music industry fears that a new telephone data law could become a carte blanche for internet users , who download tunes illegally .
until now , they 've traced music pirates with the help of phone records .
-lrb- 30.03.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live spectrum listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
italians hard hit by plastic bag ban east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
french lawmakers to pull the plug on internet pirates -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 16.09.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de internet -pipe- 13.05.2009 french lawmakers to pull the plug on internet pirates großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : sarkozy championed the new legislation france has passed a bill that will let authorities track illegal downloading over the internet and disconnect repeat offenders .
opponents are critical of the law , arguing that access to the web is a fundamental right . the french senate on wednesday overwhelmingly voted into law a controversial measure that will cut off internet access to people who repeatedly download copyrighted music , films or video games without paying .
the vote , which had already passed the lower house by a narrow margin on tuesday , represents a success for president nicolas sarkozy , who championed the groundbreaking law .
the opposition socialists alienated many of their traditional supporters in the arts world by fighting the move .
the legislation aims to protect the revenues of record and film companies and recording artists .
after two warnings pirates will be cut off the tough new laws would punish music download pirates by shutting off their internet access for up to a year .
under the terms of the bill , internet pirates will receive two warnings , but their internet connection will be cut after the third offence .
during the time they are disconnected , they will have to continue paying their internet provider .
the music and film industries in france and abroad have shown wide support for the bill , but consumer groups and the socialist opposition have warned it would be difficult to implement .
opponents have criticized the penalties , and say access to the internet should be a fundamental right .
consumer groups said they feared intrusive monitoring of online activity and warn that innocent users may be unfairly punished if hackers use their accounts to download files .
the new law 's introduction onto the statute books is likely to be delayed by at least a month .
opponents have promised to challenge the legislation in france 's top court . ch / ncy / afp / reuters send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de major german online companies agree to block child porn websites german internet providers have grudgingly agreed to block websites containing child pornography .
critics say their deal with the government wo n't make much of a difference .
-lrb- 17.04.2009 -rrb- german artists defend copyright in google era google might reign as the unchallenged king of german search engines , but a lawsuit over the company 's popular image search feature brings into question the rights of german artists in the internet age .
-lrb- 21.10.2008 -rrb- new data law could benefit music pirates germany 's music industry fears that a new telephone data law could become a carte blanche for internet users , who download tunes illegally .
until now , they 've traced music pirates with the help of phone records .
-lrb- 30.03.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inside europe listen live people natascha kampusch , the austrian who was kept prisoner from age 10 to 18 , publishes her autobigraphy .
listen to the report postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket are the gay games necessary ?
love parade - the end of an era oracle paul takes the plunge europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
van gaal to become next bayern munich coach -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 19.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de soccer -pipe- 13.05.2009 van gaal to become next bayern munich coach großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : futuer bayern munich head coach louis van gaal bayern munich are set to sign dutch coach louis van gaal ending weeks of speculation over who will be in charge of the bundesliga soccer club next season . bayern munich have confirmed that dutch coach louis van gaal will join the defending bundesliga champions as head coach on a two-year contract as of july 1 .
he is to replace interim coach jupp heynkes , who took over after juergen klinsmann was fired last month .
the coach who has led az alkmaar to their first dutch league title since 1981 , had been bayern 's first choice for the job . other managers under consideration are said to have included inter manager jose mourinho and arsenal 's arsene wenger .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bayern chairman karl-heinz rummenigge munich pleased with choice " we are happy that in louis van gaal we have managed to secure such an experienced and successful coach for bayern munich , " said bayern chairman karl-heinz rummenigge in a statement posted on the club 's website on wednesday .
having steered ajax to the champions league title in 1995 , van gaal , 57 , has a wealth of experience having also led the giants from amsterdam to consecutive dutch titles in 1994 , 1995 and 1996 .
after leading barcelona to back-to-back spanish league titles in 1998 and 1999 , the only blip in an otherwise exceptional career was when he took charge of the netherlands in 2000 .
when the dutch failed to reach the world cup finals in japan and south korea in 2002 , he was replaced by dick advocaat .
van gaal inherits a squad that is level on points with bundesliga leaders wolfsburg with two games remaining in the season .
he is expected to be closely involved in transfer decisions at the end of this season .
in return for alkmaar agreeing to release van gaal before his contract expires , bayern have agreed to play a friendly against alkmaar in the summer of 2010 without charging a fee . nt / pfd , sid / reuters / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live spectrum listen live bundesliga predictions wakey wakey ! !
dw 's pundits - and the bundesliga - come out of hibernation with the match day 18 predictions .
dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report high scorer freiburg 's papiss demba cisse opens up to dw-tv 's bundesliga kick off ! about his goalscoring ways .
watch the report scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results at a glance .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia moenchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
van gaal to become next bayern munich coach -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 28.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de soccer -pipe- 13.05.2009 van gaal to become next bayern munich coach großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : futuer bayern munich head coach louis van gaal bayern munich are set to sign dutch coach louis van gaal ending weeks of speculation over who will be in charge of the bundesliga soccer club next season . bayern munich have confirmed that dutch coach louis van gaal will join the defending bundesliga champions as head coach on a two-year contract as of july 1 .
he is to replace interim coach jupp heynkes , who took over after juergen klinsmann was fired last month .
the coach who has led az alkmaar to their first dutch league title since 1981 , had been bayern 's first choice for the job . other managers under consideration are said to have included inter manager jose mourinho and arsenal 's arsene wenger .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bayern chairman karl-heinz rummenigge munich pleased with choice " we are happy that in louis van gaal we have managed to secure such an experienced and successful coach for bayern munich , " said bayern chairman karl-heinz rummenigge in a statement posted on the club 's website on wednesday .
having steered ajax to the champions league title in 1995 , van gaal , 57 , has a wealth of experience having also led the giants from amsterdam to consecutive dutch titles in 1994 , 1995 and 1996 .
after leading barcelona to back-to-back spanish league titles in 1998 and 1999 , the only blip in an otherwise exceptional career was when he took charge of the netherlands in 2000 .
when the dutch failed to reach the world cup finals in japan and south korea in 2002 , he was replaced by dick advocaat .
van gaal inherits a squad that is level on points with bundesliga leaders wolfsburg with two games remaining in the season .
he is expected to be closely involved in transfer decisions at the end of this season .
in return for alkmaar agreeing to release van gaal before his contract expires , bayern have agreed to play a friendly against alkmaar in the summer of 2010 without charging a fee . nt / pfd , sid / reuters / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results at a glance .
dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia moenchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
van gaal to become next bayern munich coach -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 02.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de soccer -pipe- 13.05.2009 van gaal to become next bayern munich coach großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : futuer bayern munich head coach louis van gaal bayern munich are set to sign dutch coach louis van gaal ending weeks of speculation over who will be in charge of the bundesliga soccer club next season . bayern munich have confirmed that dutch coach louis van gaal will join the defending bundesliga champions as head coach on a two-year contract as of july 1 .
he is to replace interim coach jupp heynkes , who took over after juergen klinsmann was fired last month .
the coach who has led az alkmaar to their first dutch league title since 1981 , had been bayern 's first choice for the job . other managers under consideration are said to have included inter manager jose mourinho and arsenal 's arsene wenger .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bayern chairman karl-heinz rummenigge munich pleased with choice " we are happy that in louis van gaal we have managed to secure such an experienced and successful coach for bayern munich , " said bayern chairman karl-heinz rummenigge in a statement posted on the club 's website on wednesday .
having steered ajax to the champions league title in 1995 , van gaal , 57 , has a wealth of experience having also led the giants from amsterdam to consecutive dutch titles in 1994 , 1995 and 1996 .
after leading barcelona to back-to-back spanish league titles in 1998 and 1999 , the only blip in an otherwise exceptional career was when he took charge of the netherlands in 2000 .
when the dutch failed to reach the world cup finals in japan and south korea in 2002 , he was replaced by dick advocaat .
van gaal inherits a squad that is level on points with bundesliga leaders wolfsburg with two games remaining in the season .
he is expected to be closely involved in transfer decisions at the end of this season .
in return for alkmaar agreeing to release van gaal before his contract expires , bayern have agreed to play a friendly against alkmaar in the summer of 2010 without charging a fee . nt / pfd , sid / reuters / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 dw-tv europe live made in germany we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report bundesliga predictions hands down dw pundits hope a palm and 50 cents are all it takes to get the scores right on match day 14 .
scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results at a glance .
dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia moenchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg cantona 's revolution former footballer , now actor eric cantona wants to start a revolution targetting the banks .
listen to the report © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
van gaal to become next bayern munich coach -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 17.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de soccer -pipe- 13.05.2009 van gaal to become next bayern munich coach großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : futuer bayern munich head coach louis van gaal bayern munich are set to sign dutch coach louis van gaal ending weeks of speculation over who will be in charge of the bundesliga soccer club next season . bayern munich have confirmed that dutch coach louis van gaal will join the defending bundesliga champions as head coach on a two-year contract as of july 1 .
he is to replace interim coach jupp heynkes , who took over after juergen klinsmann was fired last month .
the coach who has led az alkmaar to their first dutch league title since 1981 , had been bayern 's first choice for the job . other managers under consideration are said to have included inter manager jose mourinho and arsenal 's arsene wenger .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bayern chairman karl-heinz rummenigge munich pleased with choice " we are happy that in louis van gaal we have managed to secure such an experienced and successful coach for bayern munich , " said bayern chairman karl-heinz rummenigge in a statement posted on the club 's website on wednesday .
having steered ajax to the champions league title in 1995 , van gaal , 57 , has a wealth of experience having also led the giants from amsterdam to consecutive dutch titles in 1994 , 1995 and 1996 .
after leading barcelona to back-to-back spanish league titles in 1998 and 1999 , the only blip in an otherwise exceptional career was when he took charge of the netherlands in 2000 .
when the dutch failed to reach the world cup finals in japan and south korea in 2002 , he was replaced by dick advocaat .
van gaal inherits a squad that is level on points with bundesliga leaders wolfsburg with two games remaining in the season .
he is expected to be closely involved in transfer decisions at the end of this season .
in return for alkmaar agreeing to release van gaal before his contract expires , bayern have agreed to play a friendly against alkmaar in the summer of 2010 without charging a fee . nt / pfd , sid / reuters / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ? 9799 dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit wirtschaftsbilanz we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-radio listen to the latest from german soccer on dw-radio .
sports report anti-racism girls wanted : scouting for germany 's next generation of female football talent listen to the audio art women 's football - a source of inspiration watch the video video women 's soccer is more popular than ever in the us .
watch the video final standings click here for the final 2010-11 bundesliga table . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
berlin unveils plan to help rid banks of toxic assets -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 01.12.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de economy -pipe- 13.05.2009 berlin unveils plan to help rid banks of toxic assets großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : banks can now move to clean up their balance sheets the german cabinet has approved a draft law to help rid lenders of an estimated 200 billion euros -lrb- $ 272 billion -rrb- in worthless assets .
banks can swap the assets against guaranteed state loans for up to 20 years . the aim of the " bad bank " plan is to clean up lenders ' balance sheets and restore confidence in the financial sector .
the bill , drafted by finance minister peer steinbrueck , would enable banks to receive state guaranteed loans on commercial terms , in exchange for offloading their troubled assets .
through the government 's financial market stabilization fund , soffin , lenders would be able to swap toxic assets for guaranteed state loans worth 90 percent of the original value of the assets .
lenders would pay an annual fee and be able to " freeze " the assets until better times come along . after a maximum of 20 years , they would have to pay back any losses to the government .
some believe the german banks hold more than 200 billion euros of troubled assets .
" in the interests of the real economy , we are buying time so that the so-called toxic assets can be cleared up , " explained chancellor angela merkel 's chief of staff , thomas de maiziere .
what 's worthless today , may not be tomorrow bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : german finance minister peer steinbrueck says taxpayers will not foot the bill " it 's not clear how toxic these assets really are , " said finance expert , otto salms of the liberal free democrats -lrb- fdp -rrb- .
" some of these assets may well be worth more again once the crisis ends and the economy recovers .
if that 's the case , the banks may end up having to write off much less at a later date than they would if they were forced to liquidate these assets today . "
economic recovery and financial liquidity go hand in hand .
one of the factors that 's been driving the crisis around the world is that banks have stopped lending to each other because they have n't been able to assess the size of the financial black holes on each other 's balance sheets .
berlin hopes that by removing bad holdings from balance sheets banks will start lending to each other again , as well as to businesses and consumers .
this in turn would help kick-start the german economy , the biggest in europe , which is expected to shrink by six percent this year .
shareholders , not taxpayers , to bear the burden under the plan , which comes five months before a general election , any liabilities at the end of maturity would accrue to shareholders , and not to the taxpayer .
" it 's only right that whoever made profits through taking high risks over the years , must also be prepared to take the losses , " explained financial expert johannes kahrs , of the social democrats -lrb- spd -rrb- , the coalition partners of chancellor angela merkel 's christian democrats -lrb- cdu -rrb- . "
i think that 's reasonable , it 's a basic economic principle . "
some critics say the scheme is flawed because it is voluntary .
banks are not to be forced to dispose of toxic assets through the soffin national rescue program .
the government insists that " good banks " are interesting for investors and a cleaned up , reliable balance sheet will attract capital .
the draft legislation still has to go before both the lower and upper houses of parliament , the bundestag und bundesrat . wl / pfd / afp / ard send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de financial watchdog chief calls for " bad bank " for toxic assets the head of a watchdog committee of germany 's bank stabilization fund has called for the creation of a " bad bank " that could buy up toxic assets and unblock interbank lending .
-lrb- 11.01.2009 -rrb- us mortgage crisis hits german banks the battered subprime mortgage market in the united states is increasingly impacting the us economy .
now , losses from risky us home loans to borrowers with poor credit histories have swept across the atlantic .
-lrb- 31.07.2007 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic the german cabinet backs plan to relieve the country 's banks of their toxic assets feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live global 3000 we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
travel passau is called the three river city , but it is just as famous for its baroque splendor .
passau - baroque facades and vibrant arts watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
berlin unveils plan to help rid banks of toxic assets -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 15.10.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de economy -pipe- 13.05.2009 berlin unveils plan to help rid banks of toxic assets großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : banks can now move to clean up their balance sheets the german cabinet has approved a draft law to help rid lenders of an estimated 200 billion euros -lrb- $ 272 billion -rrb- in worthless assets .
banks can swap the assets against guaranteed state loans for up to 20 years . the aim of the " bad bank " plan is to clean up lenders ' balance sheets and restore confidence in the financial sector .
the bill , drafted by finance minister peer steinbrueck , would enable banks to receive state guaranteed loans on commercial terms , in exchange for offloading their troubled assets .
through the government 's financial market stabilization fund , soffin , lenders would be able to swap toxic assets for guaranteed state loans worth 90 percent of the original value of the assets .
lenders would pay an annual fee and be able to " freeze " the assets until better times come along . after a maximum of 20 years , they would have to pay back any losses to the government .
some believe the german banks hold more than 200 billion euros of troubled assets .
" in the interests of the real economy , we are buying time so that the so-called toxic assets can be cleared up , " explained chancellor angela merkel 's chief of staff , thomas de maiziere .
what 's worthless today , may not be tomorrow bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : german finance minister peer steinbrueck says taxpayers will not foot the bill " it 's not clear how toxic these assets really are , " said finance expert , otto salms of the liberal free democrats -lrb- fdp -rrb- .
" some of these assets may well be worth more again once the crisis ends and the economy recovers .
if that 's the case , the banks may end up having to write off much less at a later date than they would if they were forced to liquidate these assets today . "
economic recovery and financial liquidity go hand in hand .
one of the factors that 's been driving the crisis around the world is that banks have stopped lending to each other because they have n't been able to assess the size of the financial black holes on each other 's balance sheets .
berlin hopes that by removing bad holdings from balance sheets banks will start lending to each other again , as well as to businesses and consumers .
this in turn would help kick-start the german economy , the biggest in europe , which is expected to shrink by six percent this year .
shareholders , not taxpayers , to bear the burden under the plan , which comes five months before a general election , any liabilities at the end of maturity would accrue to shareholders , and not to the taxpayer .
" it 's only right that whoever made profits through taking high risks over the years , must also be prepared to take the losses , " explained financial expert johannes kahrs , of the social democrats -lrb- spd -rrb- , the coalition partners of chancellor angela merkel 's christian democrats -lrb- cdu -rrb- . "
i think that 's reasonable , it 's a basic economic principle . "
some critics say the scheme is flawed because it is voluntary .
banks are not to be forced to dispose of toxic assets through the soffin national rescue program .
the government insists that " good banks " are interesting for investors and a cleaned up , reliable balance sheet will attract capital .
the draft legislation still has to go before both the lower and upper houses of parliament , the bundestag und bundesrat . wl / pfd / afp / ard send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de financial watchdog chief calls for " bad bank " for toxic assets the head of a watchdog committee of germany 's bank stabilization fund has called for the creation of a " bad bank " that could buy up toxic assets and unblock interbank lending .
-lrb- 11.01.2009 -rrb- us mortgage crisis hits german banks the battered subprime mortgage market in the united states is increasingly impacting the us economy .
now , losses from risky us home loans to borrowers with poor credit histories have swept across the atlantic .
-lrb- 31.07.2007 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic the german cabinet backs plan to relieve the country 's banks of their toxic assets feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live living planet environment matters from around the world listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
berlin unveils plan to help rid banks of toxic assets -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.01.2011 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de economy -pipe- 13.05.2009 berlin unveils plan to help rid banks of toxic assets großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : banks can now move to clean up their balance sheets the german cabinet has approved a draft law to help rid lenders of an estimated 200 billion euros -lrb- $ 272 billion -rrb- in worthless assets .
banks can swap the assets against guaranteed state loans for up to 20 years . the aim of the " bad bank " plan is to clean up lenders ' balance sheets and restore confidence in the financial sector .
the bill , drafted by finance minister peer steinbrueck , would enable banks to receive state guaranteed loans on commercial terms , in exchange for offloading their troubled assets .
through the government 's financial market stabilization fund , soffin , lenders would be able to swap toxic assets for guaranteed state loans worth 90 percent of the original value of the assets .
lenders would pay an annual fee and be able to " freeze " the assets until better times come along . after a maximum of 20 years , they would have to pay back any losses to the government .
some believe the german banks hold more than 200 billion euros of troubled assets .
" in the interests of the real economy , we are buying time so that the so-called toxic assets can be cleared up , " explained chancellor angela merkel 's chief of staff , thomas de maiziere .
what 's worthless today , may not be tomorrow bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : german finance minister peer steinbrueck says taxpayers will not foot the bill " it 's not clear how toxic these assets really are , " said finance expert , otto salms of the liberal free democrats -lrb- fdp -rrb- .
" some of these assets may well be worth more again once the crisis ends and the economy recovers .
if that 's the case , the banks may end up having to write off much less at a later date than they would if they were forced to liquidate these assets today . "
economic recovery and financial liquidity go hand in hand .
one of the factors that 's been driving the crisis around the world is that banks have stopped lending to each other because they have n't been able to assess the size of the financial black holes on each other 's balance sheets .
berlin hopes that by removing bad holdings from balance sheets banks will start lending to each other again , as well as to businesses and consumers .
this in turn would help kick-start the german economy , the biggest in europe , which is expected to shrink by six percent this year .
shareholders , not taxpayers , to bear the burden under the plan , which comes five months before a general election , any liabilities at the end of maturity would accrue to shareholders , and not to the taxpayer .
" it 's only right that whoever made profits through taking high risks over the years , must also be prepared to take the losses , " explained financial expert johannes kahrs , of the social democrats -lrb- spd -rrb- , the coalition partners of chancellor angela merkel 's christian democrats -lrb- cdu -rrb- . "
i think that 's reasonable , it 's a basic economic principle . "
some critics say the scheme is flawed because it is voluntary .
banks are not to be forced to dispose of toxic assets through the soffin national rescue program .
the government insists that " good banks " are interesting for investors and a cleaned up , reliable balance sheet will attract capital .
the draft legislation still has to go before both the lower and upper houses of parliament , the bundestag und bundesrat . wl / pfd / afp / ard send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de financial watchdog chief calls for " bad bank " for toxic assets the head of a watchdog committee of germany 's bank stabilization fund has called for the creation of a " bad bank " that could buy up toxic assets and unblock interbank lending .
-lrb- 11.01.2009 -rrb- us mortgage crisis hits german banks the battered subprime mortgage market in the united states is increasingly impacting the us economy .
now , losses from risky us home loans to borrowers with poor credit histories have swept across the atlantic .
-lrb- 31.07.2007 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic the german cabinet backs plan to relieve the country 's banks of their toxic assets feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
berlin unveils plan to help rid banks of toxic assets -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 08.09.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de economy -pipe- 13.05.2009 berlin unveils plan to help rid banks of toxic assets großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : banks can now move to clean up their balance sheets the german cabinet has approved a draft law to help rid lenders of an estimated 200 billion euros -lrb- $ 272 billion -rrb- in worthless assets .
banks can swap the assets against guaranteed state loans for up to 20 years . the aim of the " bad bank " plan is to clean up lenders ' balance sheets and restore confidence in the financial sector .
the bill , drafted by finance minister peer steinbrueck , would enable banks to receive state guaranteed loans on commercial terms , in exchange for offloading their troubled assets .
through the government 's financial market stabilization fund , soffin , lenders would be able to swap toxic assets for guaranteed state loans worth 90 percent of the original value of the assets .
lenders would pay an annual fee and be able to " freeze " the assets until better times come along . after a maximum of 20 years , they would have to pay back any losses to the government .
some believe the german banks hold more than 200 billion euros of troubled assets .
" in the interests of the real economy , we are buying time so that the so-called toxic assets can be cleared up , " explained chancellor angela merkel 's chief of staff , thomas de maiziere .
what 's worthless today , may not be tomorrow bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : german finance minister peer steinbrueck says taxpayers will not foot the bill " it 's not clear how toxic these assets really are , " said finance expert , otto salms of the liberal free democrats -lrb- fdp -rrb- .
" some of these assets may well be worth more again once the crisis ends and the economy recovers .
if that 's the case , the banks may end up having to write off much less at a later date than they would if they were forced to liquidate these assets today . "
economic recovery and financial liquidity go hand in hand .
one of the factors that 's been driving the crisis around the world is that banks have stopped lending to each other because they have n't been able to assess the size of the financial black holes on each other 's balance sheets .
berlin hopes that by removing bad holdings from balance sheets banks will start lending to each other again , as well as to businesses and consumers .
this in turn would help kick-start the german economy , the biggest in europe , which is expected to shrink by six percent this year .
shareholders , not taxpayers , to bear the burden under the plan , which comes five months before a general election , any liabilities at the end of maturity would accrue to shareholders , and not to the taxpayer .
" it 's only right that whoever made profits through taking high risks over the years , must also be prepared to take the losses , " explained financial expert johannes kahrs , of the social democrats -lrb- spd -rrb- , the coalition partners of chancellor angela merkel 's christian democrats -lrb- cdu -rrb- . "
i think that 's reasonable , it 's a basic economic principle . "
some critics say the scheme is flawed because it is voluntary .
banks are not to be forced to dispose of toxic assets through the soffin national rescue program .
the government insists that " good banks " are interesting for investors and a cleaned up , reliable balance sheet will attract capital .
the draft legislation still has to go before both the lower and upper houses of parliament , the bundestag und bundesrat . wl / pfd / afp / ard send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de financial watchdog chief calls for " bad bank " for toxic assets the head of a watchdog committee of germany 's bank stabilization fund has called for the creation of a " bad bank " that could buy up toxic assets and unblock interbank lending .
-lrb- 11.01.2009 -rrb- us mortgage crisis hits german banks the battered subprime mortgage market in the united states is increasingly impacting the us economy .
now , losses from risky us home loans to borrowers with poor credit histories have swept across the atlantic .
-lrb- 31.07.2007 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic the german cabinet backs plan to relieve the country 's banks of their toxic assets feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live drive it !
we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live arts on the air listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
italian suspect in german mob killings to be extradited to italy -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 09.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de crime -pipe- 13.05.2009 italian suspect in german mob killings to be extradited to italy großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : strangio has been top of the most-wanted lists both in germany and in italy giovanni strangio , an italian-born top suspect in a 2007 mafia shootout in germany , is to be extradited to italy , not germany , a dutch court ruled on wednesday . judge fred salomon said strangio , who was arrested in march in the netherlands , would be handed over to italian authorities because italy 's claim to the suspect was stronger than germany 's .
" the italian -lrb- extradition -rrb- request enjoys priority , " salomon said as he handed down the ruling in an amsterdam court . strangio , 30 , is an alleged leading member of the notorious southern italian mafia ' ndrangheta and one of the most wanted people in germany and italy .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the six victims in the duisburg mafia killings were shot in their cars he is suspected of being the ringleader of a shootout that left six rival clan members dead outside a pizzeria in duisburg , western germany , in august 2007 .
germany still wants strangio public prosecutors in duisburg had been trying to get strangio extradited to germany to try him in a local court .
but in recent weeks , it was widely expected that the dutch court would rule in favor of italy .
prosecutors in duisburg have agreed that strangio should be taken first to italy , spokesman detlef nowotsch said .
" we are stepping back for the time being , " nowotsch said .
" but that does n't mean that we do n't want strangio , " he added .
italy 's case for strangio stronger , judge says on wednesday , salomon said italy 's reasons for wanting to try strangio on home soil were more compelling than germany 's .
the judge said the german killings had been the result of clashes between rival clans in the italian town of san luca .
" therefore the relation with italy is bigger than the relation with duisburg where the crime took place , " salomon said .
the judge also pointed out that italy was seeking to prosecute strangio not only for the 2007 killings , but also for membership of a criminal organization .
" furthermore , all the victims had italian nationality , " he said .
strangio is to be transferred to italian custody from his dutch prison in the next 10 days .
killings draw attention to ' ndrangheta mafia the execution-style shootings in duisburg , which grabbed headlines in germany , stemmed from a feud between two rival clans .
the bloody crime drew international attention to the ' ndrangheta , a crime syndicate based in the southern italian region of calabria .
witnesses said they saw two attackers fire about 70 bullets at the six victims , aged 16 to 39 , as they were sitting in their cars after leaving the da bruno restaurant in the industrial city .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the killings outside the da bruno restaurant in duisburg sent shockwaves through germany the duisburg hit was believed to have been revenge for the 2006 christmas-time killing of maria strangio , a cousin of giovanni strangio and the wife of the head of the nirta-strangio clan , giovanni nirta , and the wounding of her son .
the battle between the rival clans has left 16 people dead since 1991 .
in march , an italian court jailed 31 people for the duisburg massacre , one of them for 13 years .
italy 's eurispes social studies institute has estimated ' ndrangheta 's turnover from trafficking in drugs and arms , prostitution and extortion in 2007 at 44 billion euros -lrb- $ 65 billion -rrb- .
strangio was arrested in march in the dutch town of diemen , after a lengthy probe involving telephone wire tapping , surveillance and close coordination between dutch , german and italian police . sp / pfd dpa / afp / reuters send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de dutch police arrest top suspect in duisburg mafia massacre dutch police have arrested an italian man named by authorities as the main suspect for the 2007 murder of six men outside a duisburg restaurant .
the man 's brother-in-law was also arrested during the operation .
-lrb- 13.03.2009 -rrb- police nab mafia boss tied to duisburg killings a suspected mafia boss who was implicated in the execution-style killings of six members of his clan in duisburg , germany , in 2007 , was finally tracked down in italy .
-lrb- 16.10.2008 -rrb- police arrest mafia boss with ties to duisburg massacre italian police arrested a wanted calabrian mafia boss who is the brother-in-law of a chief suspect in the august 2007 killings of six italians in duisburg , news reports said on thursday , aug .
7 .
-lrb- 07.08.2008 -rrb- 9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - news with business we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live arts on the air listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
art the 54th biennale contemporary art festival in venice spotlights artists from 88 countries .
watch the video turkey turkey 's opposition has undergone a makeover and is touting new rights for minority kurds .
listen to the audio nuclear energy politicians in nuclear giant france decry germany 's decision to abandon the technology .
listen to the audio europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
italian suspect in german mob killings to be extradited to italy -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 15.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de crime -pipe- 13.05.2009 italian suspect in german mob killings to be extradited to italy großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : strangio has been top of the most-wanted lists both in germany and in italy giovanni strangio , an italian-born top suspect in a 2007 mafia shootout in germany , is to be extradited to italy , not germany , a dutch court ruled on wednesday . judge fred salomon said strangio , who was arrested in march in the netherlands , would be handed over to italian authorities because italy 's claim to the suspect was stronger than germany 's .
" the italian -lrb- extradition -rrb- request enjoys priority , " salomon said as he handed down the ruling in an amsterdam court . strangio , 30 , is an alleged leading member of the notorious southern italian mafia ' ndrangheta and one of the most wanted people in germany and italy .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the six victims in the duisburg mafia killings were shot in their cars he is suspected of being the ringleader of a shootout that left six rival clan members dead outside a pizzeria in duisburg , western germany , in august 2007 .
germany still wants strangio public prosecutors in duisburg had been trying to get strangio extradited to germany to try him in a local court .
but in recent weeks , it was widely expected that the dutch court would rule in favor of italy .
prosecutors in duisburg have agreed that strangio should be taken first to italy , spokesman detlef nowotsch said .
" we are stepping back for the time being , " nowotsch said .
" but that does n't mean that we do n't want strangio , " he added .
italy 's case for strangio stronger , judge says on wednesday , salomon said italy 's reasons for wanting to try strangio on home soil were more compelling than germany 's .
the judge said the german killings had been the result of clashes between rival clans in the italian town of san luca .
" therefore the relation with italy is bigger than the relation with duisburg where the crime took place , " salomon said .
the judge also pointed out that italy was seeking to prosecute strangio not only for the 2007 killings , but also for membership of a criminal organization .
" furthermore , all the victims had italian nationality , " he said .
strangio is to be transferred to italian custody from his dutch prison in the next 10 days .
killings draw attention to ' ndrangheta mafia the execution-style shootings in duisburg , which grabbed headlines in germany , stemmed from a feud between two rival clans .
the bloody crime drew international attention to the ' ndrangheta , a crime syndicate based in the southern italian region of calabria .
witnesses said they saw two attackers fire about 70 bullets at the six victims , aged 16 to 39 , as they were sitting in their cars after leaving the da bruno restaurant in the industrial city .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the killings outside the da bruno restaurant in duisburg sent shockwaves through germany the duisburg hit was believed to have been revenge for the 2006 christmas-time killing of maria strangio , a cousin of giovanni strangio and the wife of the head of the nirta-strangio clan , giovanni nirta , and the wounding of her son .
the battle between the rival clans has left 16 people dead since 1991 .
in march , an italian court jailed 31 people for the duisburg massacre , one of them for 13 years .
italy 's eurispes social studies institute has estimated ' ndrangheta 's turnover from trafficking in drugs and arms , prostitution and extortion in 2007 at 44 billion euros -lrb- $ 65 billion -rrb- .
strangio was arrested in march in the dutch town of diemen , after a lengthy probe involving telephone wire tapping , surveillance and close coordination between dutch , german and italian police . sp / pfd dpa / afp / reuters send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de dutch police arrest top suspect in duisburg mafia massacre dutch police have arrested an italian man named by authorities as the main suspect for the 2007 murder of six men outside a duisburg restaurant .
the man 's brother-in-law was also arrested during the operation .
-lrb- 13.03.2009 -rrb- police nab mafia boss tied to duisburg killings a suspected mafia boss who was implicated in the execution-style killings of six members of his clan in duisburg , germany , in 2007 , was finally tracked down in italy .
-lrb- 16.10.2008 -rrb- police arrest mafia boss with ties to duisburg massacre italian police arrested a wanted calabrian mafia boss who is the brother-in-law of a chief suspect in the august 2007 killings of six italians in duisburg , news reports said on thursday , aug .
7 .
-lrb- 07.08.2008 -rrb- 9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit tagesthema we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
austria there is no mention of women in the austrian national anthem , but that is about to change .
listen to the audio education british parents are responding to government education cuts by setting up their own schools .
watch the video urban exploration ruins of buildings in belgium are eyesores for some , but gateways to urban exploration for others .
watch the video inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
the rhino mafia where to serve ?
soliders with dual citizenship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
italian suspect in german mob killings to be extradited to italy -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 26.10.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de crime -pipe- 13.05.2009 italian suspect in german mob killings to be extradited to italy großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : strangio has been top of the most-wanted lists both in germany and in italy giovanni strangio , an italian-born top suspect in a 2007 mafia shootout in germany , is to be extradited to italy , not germany , a dutch court ruled on wednesday . judge fred salomon said strangio , who was arrested in march in the netherlands , would be handed over to italian authorities because italy 's claim to the suspect was stronger than germany 's .
" the italian -lrb- extradition -rrb- request enjoys priority , " salomon said as he handed down the ruling in an amsterdam court . strangio , 30 , is an alleged leading member of the notorious southern italian mafia ' ndrangheta and one of the most wanted people in germany and italy .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the six victims in the duisburg mafia killings were shot in their cars he is suspected of being the ringleader of a shootout that left six rival clan members dead outside a pizzeria in duisburg , western germany , in august 2007 .
germany still wants strangio public prosecutors in duisburg had been trying to get strangio extradited to germany to try him in a local court .
but in recent weeks , it was widely expected that the dutch court would rule in favor of italy .
prosecutors in duisburg have agreed that strangio should be taken first to italy , spokesman detlef nowotsch said .
" we are stepping back for the time being , " nowotsch said .
" but that does n't mean that we do n't want strangio , " he added .
italy 's case for strangio stronger , judge says on wednesday , salomon said italy 's reasons for wanting to try strangio on home soil were more compelling than germany 's .
the judge said the german killings had been the result of clashes between rival clans in the italian town of san luca .
" therefore the relation with italy is bigger than the relation with duisburg where the crime took place , " salomon said .
the judge also pointed out that italy was seeking to prosecute strangio not only for the 2007 killings , but also for membership of a criminal organization .
" furthermore , all the victims had italian nationality , " he said .
strangio is to be transferred to italian custody from his dutch prison in the next 10 days .
killings draw attention to ' ndrangheta mafia the execution-style shootings in duisburg , which grabbed headlines in germany , stemmed from a feud between two rival clans .
the bloody crime drew international attention to the ' ndrangheta , a crime syndicate based in the southern italian region of calabria .
witnesses said they saw two attackers fire about 70 bullets at the six victims , aged 16 to 39 , as they were sitting in their cars after leaving the da bruno restaurant in the industrial city .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the killings outside the da bruno restaurant in duisburg sent shockwaves through germany the duisburg hit was believed to have been revenge for the 2006 christmas-time killing of maria strangio , a cousin of giovanni strangio and the wife of the head of the nirta-strangio clan , giovanni nirta , and the wounding of her son .
the battle between the rival clans has left 16 people dead since 1991 .
in march , an italian court jailed 31 people for the duisburg massacre , one of them for 13 years .
italy 's eurispes social studies institute has estimated ' ndrangheta 's turnover from trafficking in drugs and arms , prostitution and extortion in 2007 at 44 billion euros -lrb- $ 65 billion -rrb- .
strangio was arrested in march in the dutch town of diemen , after a lengthy probe involving telephone wire tapping , surveillance and close coordination between dutch , german and italian police . sp / pfd dpa / afp / reuters send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de dutch police arrest top suspect in duisburg mafia massacre dutch police have arrested an italian man named by authorities as the main suspect for the 2007 murder of six men outside a duisburg restaurant .
the man 's brother-in-law was also arrested during the operation .
-lrb- 13.03.2009 -rrb- police nab mafia boss tied to duisburg killings a suspected mafia boss who was implicated in the execution-style killings of six members of his clan in duisburg , germany , in 2007 , was finally tracked down in italy .
-lrb- 16.10.2008 -rrb- police arrest mafia boss with ties to duisburg massacre italian police arrested a wanted calabrian mafia boss who is the brother-in-law of a chief suspect in the august 2007 killings of six italians in duisburg , news reports said on thursday , aug .
7 .
-lrb- 07.08.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
quo vadis bosnia ?
betancourt book sparks controversy in france technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
italian suspect in german mob killings to be extradited to italy -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.01.2011 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de crime -pipe- 13.05.2009 italian suspect in german mob killings to be extradited to italy großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : strangio has been top of the most-wanted lists both in germany and in italy giovanni strangio , an italian-born top suspect in a 2007 mafia shootout in germany , is to be extradited to italy , not germany , a dutch court ruled on wednesday . judge fred salomon said strangio , who was arrested in march in the netherlands , would be handed over to italian authorities because italy 's claim to the suspect was stronger than germany 's .
" the italian -lrb- extradition -rrb- request enjoys priority , " salomon said as he handed down the ruling in an amsterdam court . strangio , 30 , is an alleged leading member of the notorious southern italian mafia ' ndrangheta and one of the most wanted people in germany and italy .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the six victims in the duisburg mafia killings were shot in their cars he is suspected of being the ringleader of a shootout that left six rival clan members dead outside a pizzeria in duisburg , western germany , in august 2007 .
germany still wants strangio public prosecutors in duisburg had been trying to get strangio extradited to germany to try him in a local court .
but in recent weeks , it was widely expected that the dutch court would rule in favor of italy .
prosecutors in duisburg have agreed that strangio should be taken first to italy , spokesman detlef nowotsch said .
" we are stepping back for the time being , " nowotsch said .
" but that does n't mean that we do n't want strangio , " he added .
italy 's case for strangio stronger , judge says on wednesday , salomon said italy 's reasons for wanting to try strangio on home soil were more compelling than germany 's .
the judge said the german killings had been the result of clashes between rival clans in the italian town of san luca .
" therefore the relation with italy is bigger than the relation with duisburg where the crime took place , " salomon said .
the judge also pointed out that italy was seeking to prosecute strangio not only for the 2007 killings , but also for membership of a criminal organization .
" furthermore , all the victims had italian nationality , " he said .
strangio is to be transferred to italian custody from his dutch prison in the next 10 days .
killings draw attention to ' ndrangheta mafia the execution-style shootings in duisburg , which grabbed headlines in germany , stemmed from a feud between two rival clans .
the bloody crime drew international attention to the ' ndrangheta , a crime syndicate based in the southern italian region of calabria .
witnesses said they saw two attackers fire about 70 bullets at the six victims , aged 16 to 39 , as they were sitting in their cars after leaving the da bruno restaurant in the industrial city .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the killings outside the da bruno restaurant in duisburg sent shockwaves through germany the duisburg hit was believed to have been revenge for the 2006 christmas-time killing of maria strangio , a cousin of giovanni strangio and the wife of the head of the nirta-strangio clan , giovanni nirta , and the wounding of her son .
the battle between the rival clans has left 16 people dead since 1991 .
in march , an italian court jailed 31 people for the duisburg massacre , one of them for 13 years .
italy 's eurispes social studies institute has estimated ' ndrangheta 's turnover from trafficking in drugs and arms , prostitution and extortion in 2007 at 44 billion euros -lrb- $ 65 billion -rrb- .
strangio was arrested in march in the dutch town of diemen , after a lengthy probe involving telephone wire tapping , surveillance and close coordination between dutch , german and italian police . sp / pfd dpa / afp / reuters send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de dutch police arrest top suspect in duisburg mafia massacre dutch police have arrested an italian man named by authorities as the main suspect for the 2007 murder of six men outside a duisburg restaurant .
the man 's brother-in-law was also arrested during the operation .
-lrb- 13.03.2009 -rrb- police nab mafia boss tied to duisburg killings a suspected mafia boss who was implicated in the execution-style killings of six members of his clan in duisburg , germany , in 2007 , was finally tracked down in italy .
-lrb- 16.10.2008 -rrb- police arrest mafia boss with ties to duisburg massacre italian police arrested a wanted calabrian mafia boss who is the brother-in-law of a chief suspect in the august 2007 killings of six italians in duisburg , news reports said on thursday , aug .
7 .
-lrb- 07.08.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
italians hard hit by plastic bag ban east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
italian suspect in german mob killings to be extradited to italy -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 20.09.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de crime -pipe- 13.05.2009 italian suspect in german mob killings to be extradited to italy großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : strangio has been top of the most-wanted lists both in germany and in italy giovanni strangio , an italian-born top suspect in a 2007 mafia shootout in germany , is to be extradited to italy , not germany , a dutch court ruled on wednesday . judge fred salomon said strangio , who was arrested in march in the netherlands , would be handed over to italian authorities because italy 's claim to the suspect was stronger than germany 's .
" the italian -lrb- extradition -rrb- request enjoys priority , " salomon said as he handed down the ruling in an amsterdam court . strangio , 30 , is an alleged leading member of the notorious southern italian mafia ' ndrangheta and one of the most wanted people in germany and italy .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the six victims in the duisburg mafia killings were shot in their cars he is suspected of being the ringleader of a shootout that left six rival clan members dead outside a pizzeria in duisburg , western germany , in august 2007 .
germany still wants strangio public prosecutors in duisburg had been trying to get strangio extradited to germany to try him in a local court .
but in recent weeks , it was widely expected that the dutch court would rule in favor of italy .
prosecutors in duisburg have agreed that strangio should be taken first to italy , spokesman detlef nowotsch said .
" we are stepping back for the time being , " nowotsch said .
" but that does n't mean that we do n't want strangio , " he added .
italy 's case for strangio stronger , judge says on wednesday , salomon said italy 's reasons for wanting to try strangio on home soil were more compelling than germany 's .
the judge said the german killings had been the result of clashes between rival clans in the italian town of san luca .
" therefore the relation with italy is bigger than the relation with duisburg where the crime took place , " salomon said .
the judge also pointed out that italy was seeking to prosecute strangio not only for the 2007 killings , but also for membership of a criminal organization .
" furthermore , all the victims had italian nationality , " he said .
strangio is to be transferred to italian custody from his dutch prison in the next 10 days .
killings draw attention to ' ndrangheta mafia the execution-style shootings in duisburg , which grabbed headlines in germany , stemmed from a feud between two rival clans .
the bloody crime drew international attention to the ' ndrangheta , a crime syndicate based in the southern italian region of calabria .
witnesses said they saw two attackers fire about 70 bullets at the six victims , aged 16 to 39 , as they were sitting in their cars after leaving the da bruno restaurant in the industrial city .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the killings outside the da bruno restaurant in duisburg sent shockwaves through germany the duisburg hit was believed to have been revenge for the 2006 christmas-time killing of maria strangio , a cousin of giovanni strangio and the wife of the head of the nirta-strangio clan , giovanni nirta , and the wounding of her son .
the battle between the rival clans has left 16 people dead since 1991 .
in march , an italian court jailed 31 people for the duisburg massacre , one of them for 13 years .
italy 's eurispes social studies institute has estimated ' ndrangheta 's turnover from trafficking in drugs and arms , prostitution and extortion in 2007 at 44 billion euros -lrb- $ 65 billion -rrb- .
strangio was arrested in march in the dutch town of diemen , after a lengthy probe involving telephone wire tapping , surveillance and close coordination between dutch , german and italian police . sp / pfd dpa / afp / reuters send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de dutch police arrest top suspect in duisburg mafia massacre dutch police have arrested an italian man named by authorities as the main suspect for the 2007 murder of six men outside a duisburg restaurant .
the man 's brother-in-law was also arrested during the operation .
-lrb- 13.03.2009 -rrb- police nab mafia boss tied to duisburg killings a suspected mafia boss who was implicated in the execution-style killings of six members of his clan in duisburg , germany , in 2007 , was finally tracked down in italy .
-lrb- 16.10.2008 -rrb- police arrest mafia boss with ties to duisburg massacre italian police arrested a wanted calabrian mafia boss who is the brother-in-law of a chief suspect in the august 2007 killings of six italians in duisburg , news reports said on thursday , aug .
7 .
-lrb- 07.08.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live people natascha kampusch , the austrian who was kept prisoner from age 10 to 18 , publishes her autobigraphy .
listen to the report postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
postcard from europe : technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket are the gay games necessary ?
love parade - the end of an era europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany agrees on bad bank scheme -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 01.12.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de banking -pipe- 13.05.2009 germany agrees on bad bank scheme großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : steinbrueck wants to reassure voters they wo n't wear the cost of the bail-out the german cabinet has agreed on a plan to clean up toxic assets from bank balance sheets .
in the run-up to the election , the issue has become highly politically charged . the scheme , which forms a key element of berlin 's bid to turn europe 's biggest economy around , would allow banks to park their toxic assets for up to 20 years , in specially created institutions .
banks would receive government backed bonds in return .
finance minister peer steinbrueck said the banks would still be held responsible for the toxic assets and , in the long run , they would bear the cost of transferring and holding the assets .
just five months out from a national election , the issue has proved politically prickly .
politicians are torn between the pressing need to revive germany 's foundering banking sector and burdening taxpayers with a huge bank bailout .
berlin hopes that once the toxic holdings have been removed from banks ' balance sheets , they will begin lending to each other and to businesses and consumers again .
that is meant to jolt the german economy back to life .
economic forecasters predict 6 percent shrinkage in europe 's biggest economy in 2009 . ch / ncy / afp / dpa send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german government steps in to clean up banks ' toxic assets the german government has drawn up a draft plan to clean up toxic assets from banks ' balance sheets , a key part of berlin 's bid to turn around europe 's biggest economy .
-lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- koehler blasts banks for keeping quiet over financial crisis in run up to presidential race , german president horst koehler has hit out at bankers ' greed , but is optimistic that the dark cloud of global financial crisis will have a silver lining .
-lrb- 02.05.2009 -rrb- leaked list reveals german banks have 816 billion euros in toxic assets a german newspaper has published a leaked list from the bafin financial oversight group that shows german banks are weighed down under 816 billion euros in toxic assets .
-lrb- 25.04.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic sweden 's bad bank scheme what is a bad bank ?
feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live pulse listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
travel passau is called the three river city , but it is just as famous for its baroque splendor .
passau - baroque facades and vibrant arts watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany agrees on bad bank scheme -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 26.09.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de banking -pipe- 13.05.2009 germany agrees on bad bank scheme großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : steinbrueck wants to reassure voters they wo n't wear the cost of the bail-out the german cabinet has agreed on a plan to clean up toxic assets from bank balance sheets .
in the run-up to the election , the issue has become highly politically charged . the scheme , which forms a key element of berlin 's bid to turn europe 's biggest economy around , would allow banks to park their toxic assets for up to 20 years , in specially created institutions .
banks would receive government backed bonds in return .
finance minister peer steinbrueck said the banks would still be held responsible for the toxic assets and , in the long run , they would bear the cost of transferring and holding the assets .
just five months out from a national election , the issue has proved politically prickly .
politicians are torn between the pressing need to revive germany 's foundering banking sector and burdening taxpayers with a huge bank bailout .
berlin hopes that once the toxic holdings have been removed from banks ' balance sheets , they will begin lending to each other and to businesses and consumers again .
that is meant to jolt the german economy back to life .
economic forecasters predict 6 percent shrinkage in europe 's biggest economy in 2009 . ch / ncy / afp / dpa send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german government steps in to clean up banks ' toxic assets the german government has drawn up a draft plan to clean up toxic assets from banks ' balance sheets , a key part of berlin 's bid to turn around europe 's biggest economy .
-lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- koehler blasts banks for keeping quiet over financial crisis in run up to presidential race , german president horst koehler has hit out at bankers ' greed , but is optimistic that the dark cloud of global financial crisis will have a silver lining .
-lrb- 02.05.2009 -rrb- leaked list reveals german banks have 816 billion euros in toxic assets a german newspaper has published a leaked list from the bafin financial oversight group that shows german banks are weighed down under 816 billion euros in toxic assets .
-lrb- 25.04.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic sweden 's bad bank scheme what is a bad bank ?
feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live popxport we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live hits in germany pop from the german top 100 listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany agrees on bad bank scheme -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.01.2011 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de banking -pipe- 13.05.2009 germany agrees on bad bank scheme großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : steinbrueck wants to reassure voters they wo n't wear the cost of the bail-out the german cabinet has agreed on a plan to clean up toxic assets from bank balance sheets .
in the run-up to the election , the issue has become highly politically charged . the scheme , which forms a key element of berlin 's bid to turn europe 's biggest economy around , would allow banks to park their toxic assets for up to 20 years , in specially created institutions .
banks would receive government backed bonds in return .
finance minister peer steinbrueck said the banks would still be held responsible for the toxic assets and , in the long run , they would bear the cost of transferring and holding the assets .
just five months out from a national election , the issue has proved politically prickly .
politicians are torn between the pressing need to revive germany 's foundering banking sector and burdening taxpayers with a huge bank bailout .
berlin hopes that once the toxic holdings have been removed from banks ' balance sheets , they will begin lending to each other and to businesses and consumers again .
that is meant to jolt the german economy back to life .
economic forecasters predict 6 percent shrinkage in europe 's biggest economy in 2009 . ch / ncy / afp / dpa send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german government steps in to clean up banks ' toxic assets the german government has drawn up a draft plan to clean up toxic assets from banks ' balance sheets , a key part of berlin 's bid to turn around europe 's biggest economy .
-lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- koehler blasts banks for keeping quiet over financial crisis in run up to presidential race , german president horst koehler has hit out at bankers ' greed , but is optimistic that the dark cloud of global financial crisis will have a silver lining .
-lrb- 02.05.2009 -rrb- leaked list reveals german banks have 816 billion euros in toxic assets a german newspaper has published a leaked list from the bafin financial oversight group that shows german banks are weighed down under 816 billion euros in toxic assets .
-lrb- 25.04.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic sweden 's bad bank scheme what is a bad bank ?
feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
french lawmakers to pull the plug on internet pirates -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 02.12.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de internet -pipe- 13.05.2009 french lawmakers to pull the plug on internet pirates großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : sarkozy championed the new legislation france has passed a bill that will let authorities track illegal downloading over the internet and disconnect repeat offenders .
opponents are critical of the law , arguing that access to the web is a fundamental right . the french senate on wednesday overwhelmingly voted into law a controversial measure that will cut off internet access to people who repeatedly download copyrighted music , films or video games without paying .
the vote , which had already passed the lower house by a narrow margin on tuesday , represents a success for president nicolas sarkozy , who championed the groundbreaking law .
the opposition socialists alienated many of their traditional supporters in the arts world by fighting the move .
the legislation aims to protect the revenues of record and film companies and recording artists .
after two warnings pirates will be cut off the tough new laws would punish music download pirates by shutting off their internet access for up to a year .
under the terms of the bill , internet pirates will receive two warnings , but their internet connection will be cut after the third offence .
during the time they are disconnected , they will have to continue paying their internet provider .
the music and film industries in france and abroad have shown wide support for the bill , but consumer groups and the socialist opposition have warned it would be difficult to implement .
opponents have criticized the penalties , and say access to the internet should be a fundamental right .
consumer groups said they feared intrusive monitoring of online activity and warn that innocent users may be unfairly punished if hackers use their accounts to download files .
the new law 's introduction onto the statute books is likely to be delayed by at least a month .
opponents have promised to challenge the legislation in france 's top court . ch / ncy / afp / reuters send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de major german online companies agree to block child porn websites german internet providers have grudgingly agreed to block websites containing child pornography .
critics say their deal with the government wo n't make much of a difference .
-lrb- 17.04.2009 -rrb- german artists defend copyright in google era google might reign as the unchallenged king of german search engines , but a lawsuit over the company 's popular image search feature brings into question the rights of german artists in the internet age .
-lrb- 21.10.2008 -rrb- new data law could benefit music pirates germany 's music industry fears that a new telephone data law could become a carte blanche for internet users , who download tunes illegally .
until now , they 've traced music pirates with the help of phone records .
-lrb- 30.03.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany agrees on bad bank scheme -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.10.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de banking -pipe- 13.05.2009 germany agrees on bad bank scheme großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : steinbrueck wants to reassure voters they wo n't wear the cost of the bail-out the german cabinet has agreed on a plan to clean up toxic assets from bank balance sheets .
in the run-up to the election , the issue has become highly politically charged . the scheme , which forms a key element of berlin 's bid to turn europe 's biggest economy around , would allow banks to park their toxic assets for up to 20 years , in specially created institutions .
banks would receive government backed bonds in return .
finance minister peer steinbrueck said the banks would still be held responsible for the toxic assets and , in the long run , they would bear the cost of transferring and holding the assets .
just five months out from a national election , the issue has proved politically prickly .
politicians are torn between the pressing need to revive germany 's foundering banking sector and burdening taxpayers with a huge bank bailout .
berlin hopes that once the toxic holdings have been removed from banks ' balance sheets , they will begin lending to each other and to businesses and consumers again .
that is meant to jolt the german economy back to life .
economic forecasters predict 6 percent shrinkage in europe 's biggest economy in 2009 . ch / ncy / afp / dpa send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german government steps in to clean up banks ' toxic assets the german government has drawn up a draft plan to clean up toxic assets from banks ' balance sheets , a key part of berlin 's bid to turn around europe 's biggest economy .
-lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- koehler blasts banks for keeping quiet over financial crisis in run up to presidential race , german president horst koehler has hit out at bankers ' greed , but is optimistic that the dark cloud of global financial crisis will have a silver lining .
-lrb- 02.05.2009 -rrb- leaked list reveals german banks have 816 billion euros in toxic assets a german newspaper has published a leaked list from the bafin financial oversight group that shows german banks are weighed down under 816 billion euros in toxic assets .
-lrb- 25.04.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic sweden 's bad bank scheme what is a bad bank ?
feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live pulse listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany agrees on bad bank scheme -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 10.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de banking -pipe- 13.05.2009 germany agrees on bad bank scheme großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : steinbrueck wants to reassure voters they wo n't wear the cost of the bail-out the german cabinet has agreed on a plan to clean up toxic assets from bank balance sheets .
in the run-up to the election , the issue has become highly politically charged . the scheme , which forms a key element of berlin 's bid to turn europe 's biggest economy around , would allow banks to park their toxic assets for up to 20 years , in specially created institutions .
banks would receive government backed bonds in return .
finance minister peer steinbrueck said the banks would still be held responsible for the toxic assets and , in the long run , they would bear the cost of transferring and holding the assets .
just five months out from a national election , the issue has proved politically prickly .
politicians are torn between the pressing need to revive germany 's foundering banking sector and burdening taxpayers with a huge bank bailout .
berlin hopes that once the toxic holdings have been removed from banks ' balance sheets , they will begin lending to each other and to businesses and consumers again .
that is meant to jolt the german economy back to life .
economic forecasters predict 6 percent shrinkage in europe 's biggest economy in 2009 . ch / ncy / afp / dpa send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german government steps in to clean up banks ' toxic assets the german government has drawn up a draft plan to clean up toxic assets from banks ' balance sheets , a key part of berlin 's bid to turn around europe 's biggest economy .
-lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- koehler blasts banks for keeping quiet over financial crisis in run up to presidential race , german president horst koehler has hit out at bankers ' greed , but is optimistic that the dark cloud of global financial crisis will have a silver lining .
-lrb- 02.05.2009 -rrb- leaked list reveals german banks have 816 billion euros in toxic assets a german newspaper has published a leaked list from the bafin financial oversight group that shows german banks are weighed down under 816 billion euros in toxic assets .
-lrb- 25.04.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic sweden 's bad bank scheme what is a bad bank ? 9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - news with in depth we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
business the historic german brand faber-castell celebrates 250 years of making pencils and pens .
watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
italian suspect in german mob killings to be extradited to italy -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 30.11.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de crime -pipe- 13.05.2009 italian suspect in german mob killings to be extradited to italy großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : strangio has been top of the most-wanted lists both in germany and in italy giovanni strangio , an italian-born top suspect in a 2007 mafia shootout in germany , is to be extradited to italy , not germany , a dutch court ruled on wednesday . judge fred salomon said strangio , who was arrested in march in the netherlands , would be handed over to italian authorities because italy 's claim to the suspect was stronger than germany 's .
" the italian -lrb- extradition -rrb- request enjoys priority , " salomon said as he handed down the ruling in an amsterdam court . strangio , 30 , is an alleged leading member of the notorious southern italian mafia ' ndrangheta and one of the most wanted people in germany and italy .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the six victims in the duisburg mafia killings were shot in their cars he is suspected of being the ringleader of a shootout that left six rival clan members dead outside a pizzeria in duisburg , western germany , in august 2007 .
germany still wants strangio public prosecutors in duisburg had been trying to get strangio extradited to germany to try him in a local court .
but in recent weeks , it was widely expected that the dutch court would rule in favor of italy .
prosecutors in duisburg have agreed that strangio should be taken first to italy , spokesman detlef nowotsch said .
" we are stepping back for the time being , " nowotsch said .
" but that does n't mean that we do n't want strangio , " he added .
italy 's case for strangio stronger , judge says on wednesday , salomon said italy 's reasons for wanting to try strangio on home soil were more compelling than germany 's .
the judge said the german killings had been the result of clashes between rival clans in the italian town of san luca .
" therefore the relation with italy is bigger than the relation with duisburg where the crime took place , " salomon said .
the judge also pointed out that italy was seeking to prosecute strangio not only for the 2007 killings , but also for membership of a criminal organization .
" furthermore , all the victims had italian nationality , " he said .
strangio is to be transferred to italian custody from his dutch prison in the next 10 days .
killings draw attention to ' ndrangheta mafia the execution-style shootings in duisburg , which grabbed headlines in germany , stemmed from a feud between two rival clans .
the bloody crime drew international attention to the ' ndrangheta , a crime syndicate based in the southern italian region of calabria .
witnesses said they saw two attackers fire about 70 bullets at the six victims , aged 16 to 39 , as they were sitting in their cars after leaving the da bruno restaurant in the industrial city .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the killings outside the da bruno restaurant in duisburg sent shockwaves through germany the duisburg hit was believed to have been revenge for the 2006 christmas-time killing of maria strangio , a cousin of giovanni strangio and the wife of the head of the nirta-strangio clan , giovanni nirta , and the wounding of her son .
the battle between the rival clans has left 16 people dead since 1991 .
in march , an italian court jailed 31 people for the duisburg massacre , one of them for 13 years .
italy 's eurispes social studies institute has estimated ' ndrangheta 's turnover from trafficking in drugs and arms , prostitution and extortion in 2007 at 44 billion euros -lrb- $ 65 billion -rrb- .
strangio was arrested in march in the dutch town of diemen , after a lengthy probe involving telephone wire tapping , surveillance and close coordination between dutch , german and italian police . sp / pfd dpa / afp / reuters send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de dutch police arrest top suspect in duisburg mafia massacre dutch police have arrested an italian man named by authorities as the main suspect for the 2007 murder of six men outside a duisburg restaurant .
the man 's brother-in-law was also arrested during the operation .
-lrb- 13.03.2009 -rrb- police nab mafia boss tied to duisburg killings a suspected mafia boss who was implicated in the execution-style killings of six members of his clan in duisburg , germany , in 2007 , was finally tracked down in italy .
-lrb- 16.10.2008 -rrb- police arrest mafia boss with ties to duisburg massacre italian police arrested a wanted calabrian mafia boss who is the brother-in-law of a chief suspect in the august 2007 killings of six italians in duisburg , news reports said on thursday , aug .
7 .
-lrb- 07.08.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
pope visits west bank , calls for palestinian statehood -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 10.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear soundscape 10 dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de religion -pipe- 13.05.2009 pope visits west bank , calls for palestinian statehood großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : palestinians gave an enthusiastic welcome to pope benedict during a visit to bethlehem , pope benedict xvi voiced support for palestinian aspirations of an independent homeland and said he hoped the wall that israel has erected in and around the west bank would come down . speaking in bethlehem after holding a mass in manger square , the pope pressed calls to remove the wall and watch towers that seal bethlehem off from jerusalem .
" towering over us ... is a stark reminder of the stalemate that relations between israelis and palestinians seem to have reached - the wall , " the pope said as he stood in the shadow of israel 's separation wall in the aida refugee camp , which houses refugees from israel 's creation in 1948 .
the pope said it 's " understandable that palestinians feel frustrated , " adding that " their legitimate aspirations for permanent homes , for an independent palestinian state , remain unfulfilled . "
the camp is home to around 5,000 refugees .
bildunterschrift : palestinian children at the aida refugee camp next to a poster of the pope " i have seen , ... overshadowing much of bethlehem , the wall that intrudes into your territories , separating neighbors and dividing families , " the pope said in the town believed to be the birthplace of jesus christ .
" although walls can be easily built , we all know that they do not last forever .
they can be taken down . "
pope lends support to palestinian statehood earlier , thousands greeted the pope 's black limousine as he made his way to manger square where he said mass for about 5,000 people next to the church of the nativity that marks the spot where christians believe jesus was born to mary in a stable .
one of the aims of the pope 's visit is to attempt to preserve a shrinking christian presence in the middle east .
the christian population of bethlehem has decreased dramatically in recent years through emigration . thousands of christians left the town after a palestinian uprising in 2000 and was met by an israeli security clampdown and the start of construction of the barrier .
the pope acknowledged israel 's security concerns as well as palestinian suffering , and urged people not to " resort to acts of violence or terrorism . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : pope benedict xvi outside of the church of the nativity in bethlehem the pope said his heart went out to those caught up in the conflict in gaza , adding that he was praying for an end to the israeli embargo of the gaza strip .
earlier , the pontiff told palestinian president mahmoud abbas that he backed the creation of a palestinian state .
" the holy see supports the right of your people to a sovereign palestinian homeland in the land of your forefathers , secure and at peace with your neighbors , within internationally recognized borders , " he said .
the pope 's comments are the vatican 's strongest and most symbolic public backing yet for an independent palestinian state .
the two-state solution is supported by abbas , arab nations and western powers .
but the new israeli prime minister , benjamin netanyahu , has declined so far to endorse it .
visit dogged by controversy the german-born pope 's week-long trip to the middle east , his first visit to the region , has not been without controversy .
on tuesday , a row erupted over the pope 's membership as a teenager of the hitler youth , as he paid a historic visit to holy sites in jerusalem .
vatican spokesman , federico lombardi , said the pontiff had " never , never , never " belonged to the organization , but later changed his version , saying that he had been a member but his membership was compulsory .
in his own 1997 memoirs , pope benedict had said he had been registered with the hitler youth while he was at a seminary .
the latest row comes on the heels of comments by some israeli leaders complaining that the pope did not go far enough in offering emotion in remarks he made on monday at the yad vashem memorial to the jewish dead of the holocaust . sp , pfd reuters / ap / dpa send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de pope continues balancing act on tour of holy sites in jerusalem pope benedict xvi became the first pope to enter a politically-charged shrine in jerusalem sacred to jews and muslims .
the pope continues to face criticism on the second day of a week-long visit to the region .
-lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- pope continues middle east tour as criticism of yad vashem speech grows pope benedict xvi used a service at jerusalem 's yad vashem memorial to express " deep compassion " for the victims of the holocaust .
but jewish leaders in germany and israel criticized the pope for not going far enough .
-lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- pope seeks to salve holocaust wounds pope benedict xvi is on his first trip to israel .
he has used a speech to seek to heal the wounds created by , among other things , his reinstatement of a holocaust-denying bishop .
-lrb- 11.05.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic pope benedict calls israel 's security barrier in the west bank " tragic " 9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany agrees on bad bank scheme -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 16.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de banking -pipe- 13.05.2009 germany agrees on bad bank scheme großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : steinbrueck wants to reassure voters they wo n't wear the cost of the bail-out the german cabinet has agreed on a plan to clean up toxic assets from bank balance sheets .
in the run-up to the election , the issue has become highly politically charged . the scheme , which forms a key element of berlin 's bid to turn europe 's biggest economy around , would allow banks to park their toxic assets for up to 20 years , in specially created institutions .
banks would receive government backed bonds in return .
finance minister peer steinbrueck said the banks would still be held responsible for the toxic assets and , in the long run , they would bear the cost of transferring and holding the assets .
just five months out from a national election , the issue has proved politically prickly .
politicians are torn between the pressing need to revive germany 's foundering banking sector and burdening taxpayers with a huge bank bailout .
berlin hopes that once the toxic holdings have been removed from banks ' balance sheets , they will begin lending to each other and to businesses and consumers again .
that is meant to jolt the german economy back to life .
economic forecasters predict 6 percent shrinkage in europe 's biggest economy in 2009 . ch / ncy / afp / dpa send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german government steps in to clean up banks ' toxic assets the german government has drawn up a draft plan to clean up toxic assets from banks ' balance sheets , a key part of berlin 's bid to turn around europe 's biggest economy .
-lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- koehler blasts banks for keeping quiet over financial crisis in run up to presidential race , german president horst koehler has hit out at bankers ' greed , but is optimistic that the dark cloud of global financial crisis will have a silver lining .
-lrb- 02.05.2009 -rrb- leaked list reveals german banks have 816 billion euros in toxic assets a german newspaper has published a leaked list from the bafin financial oversight group that shows german banks are weighed down under 816 billion euros in toxic assets .
-lrb- 25.04.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic sweden 's bad bank scheme what is a bad bank ? 9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx - leben und kultur in europa we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
digital street art artists in berlin reinvent graffiti by projecting light onto buildings using computer systems .
watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
van gaal to become next bayern munich coach -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 10.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de soccer -pipe- 13.05.2009 van gaal to become next bayern munich coach großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : futuer bayern munich head coach louis van gaal bayern munich are set to sign dutch coach louis van gaal ending weeks of speculation over who will be in charge of the bundesliga soccer club next season . bayern munich have confirmed that dutch coach louis van gaal will join the defending bundesliga champions as head coach on a two-year contract as of july 1 .
he is to replace interim coach jupp heynkes , who took over after juergen klinsmann was fired last month .
the coach who has led az alkmaar to their first dutch league title since 1981 , had been bayern 's first choice for the job . other managers under consideration are said to have included inter manager jose mourinho and arsenal 's arsene wenger .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bayern chairman karl-heinz rummenigge munich pleased with choice " we are happy that in louis van gaal we have managed to secure such an experienced and successful coach for bayern munich , " said bayern chairman karl-heinz rummenigge in a statement posted on the club 's website on wednesday .
having steered ajax to the champions league title in 1995 , van gaal , 57 , has a wealth of experience having also led the giants from amsterdam to consecutive dutch titles in 1994 , 1995 and 1996 .
after leading barcelona to back-to-back spanish league titles in 1998 and 1999 , the only blip in an otherwise exceptional career was when he took charge of the netherlands in 2000 .
when the dutch failed to reach the world cup finals in japan and south korea in 2002 , he was replaced by dick advocaat .
van gaal inherits a squad that is level on points with bundesliga leaders wolfsburg with two games remaining in the season .
he is expected to be closely involved in transfer decisions at the end of this season .
in return for alkmaar agreeing to release van gaal before his contract expires , bayern have agreed to play a friendly against alkmaar in the summer of 2010 without charging a fee . nt / pfd , sid / reuters / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ? 9799 dw-tv europe live euromaxx - lifestyle europe we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio listen to the latest from german soccer on dw-radio .
sports report final standings click here for the final 2010-11 bundesliga table . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
van gaal to become next bayern munich coach -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 22.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de soccer -pipe- 13.05.2009 van gaal to become next bayern munich coach großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : futuer bayern munich head coach louis van gaal bayern munich are set to sign dutch coach louis van gaal ending weeks of speculation over who will be in charge of the bundesliga soccer club next season . bayern munich have confirmed that dutch coach louis van gaal will join the defending bundesliga champions as head coach on a two-year contract as of july 1 .
he is to replace interim coach jupp heynkes , who took over after juergen klinsmann was fired last month .
the coach who has led az alkmaar to their first dutch league title since 1981 , had been bayern 's first choice for the job . other managers under consideration are said to have included inter manager jose mourinho and arsenal 's arsene wenger .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bayern chairman karl-heinz rummenigge munich pleased with choice " we are happy that in louis van gaal we have managed to secure such an experienced and successful coach for bayern munich , " said bayern chairman karl-heinz rummenigge in a statement posted on the club 's website on wednesday .
having steered ajax to the champions league title in 1995 , van gaal , 57 , has a wealth of experience having also led the giants from amsterdam to consecutive dutch titles in 1994 , 1995 and 1996 .
after leading barcelona to back-to-back spanish league titles in 1998 and 1999 , the only blip in an otherwise exceptional career was when he took charge of the netherlands in 2000 .
when the dutch failed to reach the world cup finals in japan and south korea in 2002 , he was replaced by dick advocaat .
van gaal inherits a squad that is level on points with bundesliga leaders wolfsburg with two games remaining in the season .
he is expected to be closely involved in transfer decisions at the end of this season .
in return for alkmaar agreeing to release van gaal before his contract expires , bayern have agreed to play a friendly against alkmaar in the summer of 2010 without charging a fee . nt / pfd , sid / reuters / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results at a glance .
dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia moenchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
cannes rolls out the world 's most famous red carpet once again -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 11.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle music art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de film -pipe- 13.05.2009 cannes rolls out the world 's most famous red carpet once again großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : in a cannes first , an animated film opened the festival each may , a festival held on the french riviera draws a collection of the world 's leading cinema minds from all corners of the globe : the cannes film festival .
this year 's edition kicked off on wednesday . the 62nd gathering of cinema 's elite in the resort town of cannes , which sits on france 's mediterranean coast , remains one of the world 's most esteemed and prestigious film festivals .
to win the coveted palme d 'or prize for best film at cannes could be described as a crowning achievement for any producer , director , actor or film studio involved in the production .
unlike other well-known film festivals , such as those in berlin and venice , the focus at cannes is usually on aesthetics : beautiful cinema .
though this year 's 20 entries take on more brutal tones .
this includes american quentin tarantino 's ultra-violent " inglourious basterds , " about a group of bloodthirsty nazi hunters , and korean park chan wook 's priest-turned-vampire flick " bak-jwi " -lrb- " thirst " -rrb- , which has already been racing up the movie charts in his home country .
maverick danish director lars von trier also raises the horror notch this year with his " antichrist , " in which willem dafoe and charlotte gainsbourg find themselves confronting their inner fears and some dark forces in a deserted cabin in the woods .
bildunterschrift : german director wim wenders ' film " paris , texas " is a past winner at cannes german co-production this year also sees a motion picture from germany-born director michael haneke , who directed the 2001 palme d 'or-winning film " the piano teacher . "
his latest cannes entry , " das weisse band " -lrb- " the white ribbon " -rrb- , is set in a village in protestant northern germany in 1913 .
haneke 's tale recreates a country on the eve of world war i , told through the lives of members of a youth choir run by the village school teacher and their families .
little more has been written about the film , the result of haneke 's strict policy of silence in the lead up to his films ' openings .
the film was a joint production between studios in germany , france , austria and italy .
if " the white ribbon " finds success at cannes this year , it would not be the first german co-production to make a name for itself at the festival .
in 1979 , volker schloendorff 's screen adaptation of " die blechtrommel " -lrb- " the tin drum " -rrb- took the top prize , as did wim wenders ' 1984 film " paris , texas . "
new and old faces bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : de niro will always be remembered for his leading role in " taxi driver " these films went on to become part of cinematic history , as do most palme d 'or winners .
this venerated list includes francis ford coppola 's " apocalypse now , " bunuel 's " viridiana , " visconti 's " the leopard " and scorsese 's " taxi driver . "
this year , all eyes will be on 3-d comedy " up " from us director pete docter , which is the first animated film to open the 12-day festival .
the story features an old man who ties balloons to his house in the hope of fulfilling a boyhood dream of flying to south america .
meanwhile , a man bent on avenging the death of his daughter in hong kong director jonnie to 's " vengeance " is also screening , and seven years after shaking up a storm in cannes with his story of rape in " irreversible , " france 's gaspar noe is back at the festival with " enter the void " about a brutal murder .
belt tightening bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the glitterati wo n't be stopped by the financial crisis with the economic crisis having cut a swathe through the world film industry over the last year , filmmakers from hollywood through to bollywood have faced cost-cutting , studio layoffs and an ever more cautious army of producers and movie financiers .
already signs have emerged that the motion picture business has scaled back plans for the lavish parties and extravagant promotional events that have always been a feature of the festival .
but all bets are that whatever the economic climate , this year 's gathering is still likely to celebrate movie-making and the cult of the celebrity with considerable style and flair . dfm / pfd / dpa / afp / reuters send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de germany 's film industry celebrates banner year in 2008 german productions contributed decisively to a banner year in the nation 's film industry in 2008 , continuing last year 's upbeat trend .
-lrb- 05.02.2009 -rrb- lights , camera , action for kosslick as berlinale approaches armed with a mischievous smile and twinkling eyes , dieter kosslick revels in his role as the director of the berlinale , which kicks off this year with a film about the illegal machinations of an international bank .
-lrb- 03.02.2009 -rrb- german love triangle squares off at venice film festival " jerichow , " a love triangle by german director christian petzold , screened at the venice film festival , the first german entry competing for the golden lion since 2004 .
it faces strong competition from the us and italy .
-lrb- 29.08.2008 -rrb- 9799 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
twitter follow dw culture keep up on europe 's culture and lifestyle scene .
culture calendar july happenings from wagner to world music - find out what 's going on in germany 's cultural scene .
podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's free podcast series .
somewhere between poet and singer : meet hans unstern ' german pop ' homepage word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
view from my window radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
soundscape 100 concert hour arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
cannes rolls out the world 's most famous red carpet once again -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 10.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle music art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de film -pipe- 13.05.2009 cannes rolls out the world 's most famous red carpet once again großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : in a cannes first , an animated film opened the festival each may , a festival held on the french riviera draws a collection of the world 's leading cinema minds from all corners of the globe : the cannes film festival .
this year 's edition kicked off on wednesday . the 62nd gathering of cinema 's elite in the resort town of cannes , which sits on france 's mediterranean coast , remains one of the world 's most esteemed and prestigious film festivals .
to win the coveted palme d 'or prize for best film at cannes could be described as a crowning achievement for any producer , director , actor or film studio involved in the production .
unlike other well-known film festivals , such as those in berlin and venice , the focus at cannes is usually on aesthetics : beautiful cinema .
though this year 's 20 entries take on more brutal tones .
this includes american quentin tarantino 's ultra-violent " inglourious basterds , " about a group of bloodthirsty nazi hunters , and korean park chan wook 's priest-turned-vampire flick " bak-jwi " -lrb- " thirst " -rrb- , which has already been racing up the movie charts in his home country .
maverick danish director lars von trier also raises the horror notch this year with his " antichrist , " in which willem dafoe and charlotte gainsbourg find themselves confronting their inner fears and some dark forces in a deserted cabin in the woods .
bildunterschrift : german director wim wenders ' film " paris , texas " is a past winner at cannes german co-production this year also sees a motion picture from germany-born director michael haneke , who directed the 2001 palme d 'or-winning film " the piano teacher . "
his latest cannes entry , " das weisse band " -lrb- " the white ribbon " -rrb- , is set in a village in protestant northern germany in 1913 .
haneke 's tale recreates a country on the eve of world war i , told through the lives of members of a youth choir run by the village school teacher and their families .
little more has been written about the film , the result of haneke 's strict policy of silence in the lead up to his films ' openings .
the film was a joint production between studios in germany , france , austria and italy .
if " the white ribbon " finds success at cannes this year , it would not be the first german co-production to make a name for itself at the festival .
in 1979 , volker schloendorff 's screen adaptation of " die blechtrommel " -lrb- " the tin drum " -rrb- took the top prize , as did wim wenders ' 1984 film " paris , texas . "
new and old faces bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : de niro will always be remembered for his leading role in " taxi driver " these films went on to become part of cinematic history , as do most palme d 'or winners .
this venerated list includes francis ford coppola 's " apocalypse now , " bunuel 's " viridiana , " visconti 's " the leopard " and scorsese 's " taxi driver . "
this year , all eyes will be on 3-d comedy " up " from us director pete docter , which is the first animated film to open the 12-day festival .
the story features an old man who ties balloons to his house in the hope of fulfilling a boyhood dream of flying to south america .
meanwhile , a man bent on avenging the death of his daughter in hong kong director jonnie to 's " vengeance " is also screening , and seven years after shaking up a storm in cannes with his story of rape in " irreversible , " france 's gaspar noe is back at the festival with " enter the void " about a brutal murder .
belt tightening bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the glitterati wo n't be stopped by the financial crisis with the economic crisis having cut a swathe through the world film industry over the last year , filmmakers from hollywood through to bollywood have faced cost-cutting , studio layoffs and an ever more cautious army of producers and movie financiers .
already signs have emerged that the motion picture business has scaled back plans for the lavish parties and extravagant promotional events that have always been a feature of the festival .
but all bets are that whatever the economic climate , this year 's gathering is still likely to celebrate movie-making and the cult of the celebrity with considerable style and flair . dfm / pfd / dpa / afp / reuters send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de germany 's film industry celebrates banner year in 2008 german productions contributed decisively to a banner year in the nation 's film industry in 2008 , continuing last year 's upbeat trend .
-lrb- 05.02.2009 -rrb- lights , camera , action for kosslick as berlinale approaches armed with a mischievous smile and twinkling eyes , dieter kosslick revels in his role as the director of the berlinale , which kicks off this year with a film about the illegal machinations of an international bank .
-lrb- 03.02.2009 -rrb- german love triangle squares off at venice film festival " jerichow , " a love triangle by german director christian petzold , screened at the venice film festival , the first german entry competing for the golden lion since 2004 .
it faces strong competition from the us and italy .
-lrb- 29.08.2008 -rrb- 9799 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
twitter follow dw culture keep up on europe 's culture and lifestyle scene .
travel take a close-up look at some of europe 's most exciting cities .
oxford , britain schwerin , germany las palmas , spain reykjavik , iceland darmstadt , germany podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's new free podcast .
' clip ' homepage clip no. 13 - get back to basics with the singer-songwriter rock of the alin coen band subscribe on itunes get the rss feed word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
soundscape 100 concert hour arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
cannes rolls out the world 's most famous red carpet once again -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 21.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de film -pipe- 13.05.2009 cannes rolls out the world 's most famous red carpet once again großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : in a cannes first , an animated film opened the festival each may , a festival held on the french riviera draws a collection of the world 's leading cinema minds from all corners of the globe : the cannes film festival .
this year 's edition kicked off on wednesday . the 62nd gathering of cinema 's elite in the resort town of cannes , which sits on france 's mediterranean coast , remains one of the world 's most esteemed and prestigious film festivals .
to win the coveted palme d 'or prize for best film at cannes could be described as a crowning achievement for any producer , director , actor or film studio involved in the production .
unlike other well-known film festivals , such as those in berlin and venice , the focus at cannes is usually on aesthetics : beautiful cinema .
though this year 's 20 entries take on more brutal tones .
this includes american quentin tarantino 's ultra-violent " inglourious basterds , " about a group of bloodthirsty nazi hunters , and korean park chan wook 's priest-turned-vampire flick " bak-jwi " -lrb- " thirst " -rrb- , which has already been racing up the movie charts in his home country .
maverick danish director lars von trier also raises the horror notch this year with his " antichrist , " in which willem dafoe and charlotte gainsbourg find themselves confronting their inner fears and some dark forces in a deserted cabin in the woods .
bildunterschrift : german director wim wenders ' film " paris , texas " is a past winner at cannes german co-production this year also sees a motion picture from germany-born director michael haneke , who directed the 2001 palme d 'or-winning film " the piano teacher . "
his latest cannes entry , " das weisse band " -lrb- " the white ribbon " -rrb- , is set in a village in protestant northern germany in 1913 .
haneke 's tale recreates a country on the eve of world war i , told through the lives of members of a youth choir run by the village school teacher and their families .
little more has been written about the film , the result of haneke 's strict policy of silence in the lead up to his films ' openings .
the film was a joint production between studios in germany , france , austria and italy .
if " the white ribbon " finds success at cannes this year , it would not be the first german co-production to make a name for itself at the festival .
in 1979 , volker schloendorff 's screen adaptation of " die blechtrommel " -lrb- " the tin drum " -rrb- took the top prize , as did wim wenders ' 1984 film " paris , texas . "
new and old faces bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : de niro will always be remembered for his leading role in " taxi driver " these films went on to become part of cinematic history , as do most palme d 'or winners .
this venerated list includes francis ford coppola 's " apocalypse now , " bunuel 's " viridiana , " visconti 's " the leopard " and scorsese 's " taxi driver . "
this year , all eyes will be on 3-d comedy " up " from us director pete docter , which is the first animated film to open the 12-day festival .
the story features an old man who ties balloons to his house in the hope of fulfilling a boyhood dream of flying to south america .
meanwhile , a man bent on avenging the death of his daughter in hong kong director jonnie to 's " vengeance " is also screening , and seven years after shaking up a storm in cannes with his story of rape in " irreversible , " france 's gaspar noe is back at the festival with " enter the void " about a brutal murder .
belt tightening bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the glitterati wo n't be stopped by the financial crisis with the economic crisis having cut a swathe through the world film industry over the last year , filmmakers from hollywood through to bollywood have faced cost-cutting , studio layoffs and an ever more cautious army of producers and movie financiers .
already signs have emerged that the motion picture business has scaled back plans for the lavish parties and extravagant promotional events that have always been a feature of the festival .
but all bets are that whatever the economic climate , this year 's gathering is still likely to celebrate movie-making and the cult of the celebrity with considerable style and flair . dfm / pfd / dpa / afp / reuters send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de germany 's film industry celebrates banner year in 2008 german productions contributed decisively to a banner year in the nation 's film industry in 2008 , continuing last year 's upbeat trend .
-lrb- 05.02.2009 -rrb- lights , camera , action for kosslick as berlinale approaches armed with a mischievous smile and twinkling eyes , dieter kosslick revels in his role as the director of the berlinale , which kicks off this year with a film about the illegal machinations of an international bank .
-lrb- 03.02.2009 -rrb- german love triangle squares off at venice film festival " jerichow , " a love triangle by german director christian petzold , screened at the venice film festival , the first german entry competing for the golden lion since 2004 .
it faces strong competition from the us and italy .
-lrb- 29.08.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live picture gallery fat and felt nearly 25 years after his death , joseph beuys is remembered for his broad view of art .
travel explore some of germany 's most spectacular historic castles .
marksburg albrechtsburg castle hohenzollern castle dw-tv : euromaxx podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's new free podcast .
clip no. 1 - luis und laserpower clip no. 2 - abel & cain clip no. 3 - baby benzin clip no. 4 - the intersphere subscribe on itunes get the rss feed word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
hits in germany concert hour music this week arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
cannes rolls out the world 's most famous red carpet once again -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de film -pipe- 13.05.2009 cannes rolls out the world 's most famous red carpet once again großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : in a cannes first , an animated film opened the festival each may , a festival held on the french riviera draws a collection of the world 's leading cinema minds from all corners of the globe : the cannes film festival .
this year 's edition kicked off on wednesday . the 62nd gathering of cinema 's elite in the resort town of cannes , which sits on france 's mediterranean coast , remains one of the world 's most esteemed and prestigious film festivals .
to win the coveted palme d 'or prize for best film at cannes could be described as a crowning achievement for any producer , director , actor or film studio involved in the production .
unlike other well-known film festivals , such as those in berlin and venice , the focus at cannes is usually on aesthetics : beautiful cinema .
though this year 's 20 entries take on more brutal tones .
this includes american quentin tarantino 's ultra-violent " inglourious basterds , " about a group of bloodthirsty nazi hunters , and korean park chan wook 's priest-turned-vampire flick " bak-jwi " -lrb- " thirst " -rrb- , which has already been racing up the movie charts in his home country .
maverick danish director lars von trier also raises the horror notch this year with his " antichrist , " in which willem dafoe and charlotte gainsbourg find themselves confronting their inner fears and some dark forces in a deserted cabin in the woods .
bildunterschrift : german director wim wenders ' film " paris , texas " is a past winner at cannes german co-production this year also sees a motion picture from germany-born director michael haneke , who directed the 2001 palme d 'or-winning film " the piano teacher . "
his latest cannes entry , " das weisse band " -lrb- " the white ribbon " -rrb- , is set in a village in protestant northern germany in 1913 .
haneke 's tale recreates a country on the eve of world war i , told through the lives of members of a youth choir run by the village school teacher and their families .
little more has been written about the film , the result of haneke 's strict policy of silence in the lead up to his films ' openings .
the film was a joint production between studios in germany , france , austria and italy .
if " the white ribbon " finds success at cannes this year , it would not be the first german co-production to make a name for itself at the festival .
in 1979 , volker schloendorff 's screen adaptation of " die blechtrommel " -lrb- " the tin drum " -rrb- took the top prize , as did wim wenders ' 1984 film " paris , texas . "
new and old faces bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : de niro will always be remembered for his leading role in " taxi driver " these films went on to become part of cinematic history , as do most palme d 'or winners .
this venerated list includes francis ford coppola 's " apocalypse now , " bunuel 's " viridiana , " visconti 's " the leopard " and scorsese 's " taxi driver . "
this year , all eyes will be on 3-d comedy " up " from us director pete docter , which is the first animated film to open the 12-day festival .
the story features an old man who ties balloons to his house in the hope of fulfilling a boyhood dream of flying to south america .
meanwhile , a man bent on avenging the death of his daughter in hong kong director jonnie to 's " vengeance " is also screening , and seven years after shaking up a storm in cannes with his story of rape in " irreversible , " france 's gaspar noe is back at the festival with " enter the void " about a brutal murder .
belt tightening bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the glitterati wo n't be stopped by the financial crisis with the economic crisis having cut a swathe through the world film industry over the last year , filmmakers from hollywood through to bollywood have faced cost-cutting , studio layoffs and an ever more cautious army of producers and movie financiers .
already signs have emerged that the motion picture business has scaled back plans for the lavish parties and extravagant promotional events that have always been a feature of the festival .
but all bets are that whatever the economic climate , this year 's gathering is still likely to celebrate movie-making and the cult of the celebrity with considerable style and flair . dfm / pfd / dpa / afp / reuters send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de germany 's film industry celebrates banner year in 2008 german productions contributed decisively to a banner year in the nation 's film industry in 2008 , continuing last year 's upbeat trend .
-lrb- 05.02.2009 -rrb- lights , camera , action for kosslick as berlinale approaches armed with a mischievous smile and twinkling eyes , dieter kosslick revels in his role as the director of the berlinale , which kicks off this year with a film about the illegal machinations of an international bank .
-lrb- 03.02.2009 -rrb- german love triangle squares off at venice film festival " jerichow , " a love triangle by german director christian petzold , screened at the venice film festival , the first german entry competing for the golden lion since 2004 .
it faces strong competition from the us and italy .
-lrb- 29.08.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live pulse listen live audio slide show aerial theater a young norwegian acrobat is following her passion - despite rope burns .
music dw presents podcasts of performances by top artists at the 2010 beethovenfest .
podcasts on itunes more on beethoven podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's new free podcast .
clip no. 1 - luis und laserpower clip no. 2 - abel & cain clip no. 3 - baby benzin clip no. 4 - the intersphere clip no. 5 - shantel clip no. 6 - klee subscribe on itunes get the rss feed word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
hits in germany concert hour music this week arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
cannes rolls out the world 's most famous red carpet once again -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de film -pipe- 13.05.2009 cannes rolls out the world 's most famous red carpet once again großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : in a cannes first , an animated film opened the festival each may , a festival held on the french riviera draws a collection of the world 's leading cinema minds from all corners of the globe : the cannes film festival .
this year 's edition kicked off on wednesday . the 62nd gathering of cinema 's elite in the resort town of cannes , which sits on france 's mediterranean coast , remains one of the world 's most esteemed and prestigious film festivals .
to win the coveted palme d 'or prize for best film at cannes could be described as a crowning achievement for any producer , director , actor or film studio involved in the production .
unlike other well-known film festivals , such as those in berlin and venice , the focus at cannes is usually on aesthetics : beautiful cinema .
though this year 's 20 entries take on more brutal tones .
this includes american quentin tarantino 's ultra-violent " inglourious basterds , " about a group of bloodthirsty nazi hunters , and korean park chan wook 's priest-turned-vampire flick " bak-jwi " -lrb- " thirst " -rrb- , which has already been racing up the movie charts in his home country .
maverick danish director lars von trier also raises the horror notch this year with his " antichrist , " in which willem dafoe and charlotte gainsbourg find themselves confronting their inner fears and some dark forces in a deserted cabin in the woods .
bildunterschrift : german director wim wenders ' film " paris , texas " is a past winner at cannes german co-production this year also sees a motion picture from germany-born director michael haneke , who directed the 2001 palme d 'or-winning film " the piano teacher . "
his latest cannes entry , " das weisse band " -lrb- " the white ribbon " -rrb- , is set in a village in protestant northern germany in 1913 .
haneke 's tale recreates a country on the eve of world war i , told through the lives of members of a youth choir run by the village school teacher and their families .
little more has been written about the film , the result of haneke 's strict policy of silence in the lead up to his films ' openings .
the film was a joint production between studios in germany , france , austria and italy .
if " the white ribbon " finds success at cannes this year , it would not be the first german co-production to make a name for itself at the festival .
in 1979 , volker schloendorff 's screen adaptation of " die blechtrommel " -lrb- " the tin drum " -rrb- took the top prize , as did wim wenders ' 1984 film " paris , texas . "
new and old faces bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : de niro will always be remembered for his leading role in " taxi driver " these films went on to become part of cinematic history , as do most palme d 'or winners .
this venerated list includes francis ford coppola 's " apocalypse now , " bunuel 's " viridiana , " visconti 's " the leopard " and scorsese 's " taxi driver . "
this year , all eyes will be on 3-d comedy " up " from us director pete docter , which is the first animated film to open the 12-day festival .
the story features an old man who ties balloons to his house in the hope of fulfilling a boyhood dream of flying to south america .
meanwhile , a man bent on avenging the death of his daughter in hong kong director jonnie to 's " vengeance " is also screening , and seven years after shaking up a storm in cannes with his story of rape in " irreversible , " france 's gaspar noe is back at the festival with " enter the void " about a brutal murder .
belt tightening bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the glitterati wo n't be stopped by the financial crisis with the economic crisis having cut a swathe through the world film industry over the last year , filmmakers from hollywood through to bollywood have faced cost-cutting , studio layoffs and an ever more cautious army of producers and movie financiers .
already signs have emerged that the motion picture business has scaled back plans for the lavish parties and extravagant promotional events that have always been a feature of the festival .
but all bets are that whatever the economic climate , this year 's gathering is still likely to celebrate movie-making and the cult of the celebrity with considerable style and flair . dfm / pfd / dpa / afp / reuters send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de germany 's film industry celebrates banner year in 2008 german productions contributed decisively to a banner year in the nation 's film industry in 2008 , continuing last year 's upbeat trend .
-lrb- 05.02.2009 -rrb- lights , camera , action for kosslick as berlinale approaches armed with a mischievous smile and twinkling eyes , dieter kosslick revels in his role as the director of the berlinale , which kicks off this year with a film about the illegal machinations of an international bank .
-lrb- 03.02.2009 -rrb- german love triangle squares off at venice film festival " jerichow , " a love triangle by german director christian petzold , screened at the venice film festival , the first german entry competing for the golden lion since 2004 .
it faces strong competition from the us and italy .
-lrb- 29.08.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's new free podcast .
' clip ' homepage clip no. 6 - klee clip no. 7 - einshoch6 clip no. 8 - johannes stankowski clip no. 9 - the bonny situation subscribe on itunes get the rss feed visit germany dw-tv tells you the top things to visit in this fun rhineland city .
" recommended " as video on demand download here -lrb- mp4 -rrb- cologne cologne carnival the claudius therme ' suenner im walfisch ' brewery -lrb- german -rrb- word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
hits in germany concert hour music this week arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth music dw presents podcasts of performances by top artists at the 2010 beethovenfest .
podcasts on itunes more on beethoven news quiz test your knowledge with the news quiz ! © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
cannes rolls out the world 's most famous red carpet once again -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 01.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de film -pipe- 13.05.2009 cannes rolls out the world 's most famous red carpet once again großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : in a cannes first , an animated film opened the festival each may , a festival held on the french riviera draws a collection of the world 's leading cinema minds from all corners of the globe : the cannes film festival .
this year 's edition kicked off on wednesday . the 62nd gathering of cinema 's elite in the resort town of cannes , which sits on france 's mediterranean coast , remains one of the world 's most esteemed and prestigious film festivals .
to win the coveted palme d 'or prize for best film at cannes could be described as a crowning achievement for any producer , director , actor or film studio involved in the production .
unlike other well-known film festivals , such as those in berlin and venice , the focus at cannes is usually on aesthetics : beautiful cinema .
though this year 's 20 entries take on more brutal tones .
this includes american quentin tarantino 's ultra-violent " inglourious basterds , " about a group of bloodthirsty nazi hunters , and korean park chan wook 's priest-turned-vampire flick " bak-jwi " -lrb- " thirst " -rrb- , which has already been racing up the movie charts in his home country .
maverick danish director lars von trier also raises the horror notch this year with his " antichrist , " in which willem dafoe and charlotte gainsbourg find themselves confronting their inner fears and some dark forces in a deserted cabin in the woods .
bildunterschrift : german director wim wenders ' film " paris , texas " is a past winner at cannes german co-production this year also sees a motion picture from germany-born director michael haneke , who directed the 2001 palme d 'or-winning film " the piano teacher . "
his latest cannes entry , " das weisse band " -lrb- " the white ribbon " -rrb- , is set in a village in protestant northern germany in 1913 .
haneke 's tale recreates a country on the eve of world war i , told through the lives of members of a youth choir run by the village school teacher and their families .
little more has been written about the film , the result of haneke 's strict policy of silence in the lead up to his films ' openings .
the film was a joint production between studios in germany , france , austria and italy .
if " the white ribbon " finds success at cannes this year , it would not be the first german co-production to make a name for itself at the festival .
in 1979 , volker schloendorff 's screen adaptation of " die blechtrommel " -lrb- " the tin drum " -rrb- took the top prize , as did wim wenders ' 1984 film " paris , texas . "
new and old faces bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : de niro will always be remembered for his leading role in " taxi driver " these films went on to become part of cinematic history , as do most palme d 'or winners .
this venerated list includes francis ford coppola 's " apocalypse now , " bunuel 's " viridiana , " visconti 's " the leopard " and scorsese 's " taxi driver . "
this year , all eyes will be on 3-d comedy " up " from us director pete docter , which is the first animated film to open the 12-day festival .
the story features an old man who ties balloons to his house in the hope of fulfilling a boyhood dream of flying to south america .
meanwhile , a man bent on avenging the death of his daughter in hong kong director jonnie to 's " vengeance " is also screening , and seven years after shaking up a storm in cannes with his story of rape in " irreversible , " france 's gaspar noe is back at the festival with " enter the void " about a brutal murder .
belt tightening bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the glitterati wo n't be stopped by the financial crisis with the economic crisis having cut a swathe through the world film industry over the last year , filmmakers from hollywood through to bollywood have faced cost-cutting , studio layoffs and an ever more cautious army of producers and movie financiers .
already signs have emerged that the motion picture business has scaled back plans for the lavish parties and extravagant promotional events that have always been a feature of the festival .
but all bets are that whatever the economic climate , this year 's gathering is still likely to celebrate movie-making and the cult of the celebrity with considerable style and flair . dfm / pfd / dpa / afp / reuters send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de germany 's film industry celebrates banner year in 2008 german productions contributed decisively to a banner year in the nation 's film industry in 2008 , continuing last year 's upbeat trend .
-lrb- 05.02.2009 -rrb- lights , camera , action for kosslick as berlinale approaches armed with a mischievous smile and twinkling eyes , dieter kosslick revels in his role as the director of the berlinale , which kicks off this year with a film about the illegal machinations of an international bank .
-lrb- 03.02.2009 -rrb- german love triangle squares off at venice film festival " jerichow , " a love triangle by german director christian petzold , screened at the venice film festival , the first german entry competing for the golden lion since 2004 .
it faces strong competition from the us and italy .
-lrb- 29.08.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
picture gallery christmas markets holiday cheer ís easy to come by during the advent season in germany .
podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's new free podcast .
' clip ' homepage clip no. 3 - baby benzin clip no. 4 - the intersphere clip no. 5 - shantel clip no. 6 - klee clip no. 7 - einshoch6 subscribe on itunes get the rss feed word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
hits in germany concert hour music this week arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth music dw presents podcasts of performances by top artists at the 2010 beethovenfest .
podcasts on itunes more on beethoven © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
sobibor survivor : demjanjuk trial will go down in history -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 10.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de world war ii -pipe- 13.05.2009 sobibor survivor : demjanjuk trial will go down in history großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some 250,000 jews , gypsies and political prisoners were murdered in sobibor 's gas chambers deutsche welle spoke with thomas blatt , one of few to escape from the nazi-run sobibor extermination camp .
he says he does n't care whether john demjanjuk is jailed for working at the camp , just that he tells the truth . thomas blatt was one of the few to survive the sobibor extermination camp in nazi-occupied poland during world war ii .
the 82-year-old is now a key witness in the munich trial of john demjanjuk , who is alleged to have been a guard at sobibor .
deutsche welle : why did you decide to come to germany for this trial ?
thomas blatt : because when i escaped from sobibor , i promised myself that if i survived , i will do everything to tell the story of sobibor .
and that 's what i 'm doing .
and i know that demjanjuk knows a lot , because demjanjuk was in the middle of the holocaust .
and he denies that it is him , that he was not a guard at sobibor , but he was .
i do n't care if demjanjuk is in jail or not .
i do care that he should tell the truth .
and the truth is , that he was a guard at sobibor .
sobibor was not a simple concentration camp .
sobibor was an extermination camp .
at sobibor the guards were simple murderers .
in a concentration camp a guard was a guard , … responsible -lsb- for preventing -rsb- people from running away .
but at sobibor they were simple murderers .
you said that among the guards at sobibor some were sadistic .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : demjanjuk 's wartime identification card is a major piece of evidence against him i said that they were sadistic and that some guards escaped from sobibor .
but demjanjuk did not escape .
he was there all the time with the nazis .
i do n't say that i -lsb- saw -rsb- him for sure .
-lsb- the guards -rsb- were very sadistic .
and we were more afraid of the guards than we were of the germans .
i 'm sure i know that he was a guard .
it is my duty to tell .
he should tell what sobibor was for .
what will be your reaction if there is not enough evidence to find mr. demjanjuk guilty ?
i believe that he will tell the truth , the way it was in sobibor .
and this will be part of history .
this will be -lsb- something -rsb- for the new generation to learn .
because what he has seen , few people have seen .
i strongly believe he will tell the truth .
and later demjanjuk could go free .
for me his testimony is very important , and that 's why i am in munich following demjanjuk 's story .
i am sorry in a way for demjanjuk .
he 's an old man , 89 years old .
he 's sick , he has a family .
so i 'm sorry in a way .
and i think that many people think the same way : he 's an old man , he 's suffered so much .
but i also see the other side of demjanjuk .
i see him as a terrible sadist , a murderer .
he did n't run away from his work .
interview : michael lawton editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de suspected nazi prison camp guard deported to germany the us has deported an alleged former nazi prison camp guard to germany .
jewish leaders hailed john demjanjuk 's deportation , saying they hoped it was n't too late for the 89-year-old to be brought to justice .
-lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- opinion : no statute of limitations on horrors of the holocaust after decades of judicial wrangling , the alleged nazi criminal john demjanjuk is to stand trial in germany .
on tuesday he was flown to munich and brought to a prison awaiting trial .
cornelia rabitz has this commentary : -lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- us seeks to clear path for demjanjuk deportation , again the us government has sought to clear the way to deport alleged former death camp guard john demjanjuk , just days after a us court postponed his deportation to wait for proof that he is fit to travel to germany .
-lrb- 21.04.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic michael lawton talks to raphael gross of the fritz bauer institute for holocaust studies about john demjanjuk nazi war crimes suspect john demjanjuk deported to germany -lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- 9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
revolution calling women have played a crucial role in the arab uprisings , using the internet to spread the message .
watch the video security concerns there is a growing connection between security and natural resources .
listen to the interview podcast series life without the arts would be a lot less colorful , but guides like lukas help experience the arts .
download the podcast international conference media representatives around the world gather in bonn to discuss human rights .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
pope visits west bank , calls for palestinian statehood -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 11.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de religion -pipe- 13.05.2009 pope visits west bank , calls for palestinian statehood großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : palestinians gave an enthusiastic welcome to pope benedict during a visit to bethlehem , pope benedict xvi voiced support for palestinian aspirations of an independent homeland and said he hoped the wall that israel has erected in and around the west bank would come down . speaking in bethlehem after holding a mass in manger square , the pope pressed calls to remove the wall and watch towers that seal bethlehem off from jerusalem .
" towering over us ... is a stark reminder of the stalemate that relations between israelis and palestinians seem to have reached - the wall , " the pope said as he stood in the shadow of israel 's separation wall in the aida refugee camp , which houses refugees from israel 's creation in 1948 .
the pope said it 's " understandable that palestinians feel frustrated , " adding that " their legitimate aspirations for permanent homes , for an independent palestinian state , remain unfulfilled . "
the camp is home to around 5,000 refugees .
bildunterschrift : palestinian children at the aida refugee camp next to a poster of the pope " i have seen , ... overshadowing much of bethlehem , the wall that intrudes into your territories , separating neighbors and dividing families , " the pope said in the town believed to be the birthplace of jesus christ .
" although walls can be easily built , we all know that they do not last forever .
they can be taken down . "
pope lends support to palestinian statehood earlier , thousands greeted the pope 's black limousine as he made his way to manger square where he said mass for about 5,000 people next to the church of the nativity that marks the spot where christians believe jesus was born to mary in a stable .
one of the aims of the pope 's visit is to attempt to preserve a shrinking christian presence in the middle east .
the christian population of bethlehem has decreased dramatically in recent years through emigration . thousands of christians left the town after a palestinian uprising in 2000 and was met by an israeli security clampdown and the start of construction of the barrier .
the pope acknowledged israel 's security concerns as well as palestinian suffering , and urged people not to " resort to acts of violence or terrorism . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : pope benedict xvi outside of the church of the nativity in bethlehem the pope said his heart went out to those caught up in the conflict in gaza , adding that he was praying for an end to the israeli embargo of the gaza strip .
earlier , the pontiff told palestinian president mahmoud abbas that he backed the creation of a palestinian state .
" the holy see supports the right of your people to a sovereign palestinian homeland in the land of your forefathers , secure and at peace with your neighbors , within internationally recognized borders , " he said .
the pope 's comments are the vatican 's strongest and most symbolic public backing yet for an independent palestinian state .
the two-state solution is supported by abbas , arab nations and western powers .
but the new israeli prime minister , benjamin netanyahu , has declined so far to endorse it .
visit dogged by controversy the german-born pope 's week-long trip to the middle east , his first visit to the region , has not been without controversy .
on tuesday , a row erupted over the pope 's membership as a teenager of the hitler youth , as he paid a historic visit to holy sites in jerusalem .
vatican spokesman , federico lombardi , said the pontiff had " never , never , never " belonged to the organization , but later changed his version , saying that he had been a member but his membership was compulsory .
in his own 1997 memoirs , pope benedict had said he had been registered with the hitler youth while he was at a seminary .
the latest row comes on the heels of comments by some israeli leaders complaining that the pope did not go far enough in offering emotion in remarks he made on monday at the yad vashem memorial to the jewish dead of the holocaust . sp , pfd reuters / ap / dpa send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de pope continues balancing act on tour of holy sites in jerusalem pope benedict xvi became the first pope to enter a politically-charged shrine in jerusalem sacred to jews and muslims .
the pope continues to face criticism on the second day of a week-long visit to the region .
-lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- pope continues middle east tour as criticism of yad vashem speech grows pope benedict xvi used a service at jerusalem 's yad vashem memorial to express " deep compassion " for the victims of the holocaust .
but jewish leaders in germany and israel criticized the pope for not going far enough .
-lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- pope seeks to salve holocaust wounds pope benedict xvi is on his first trip to israel .
he has used a speech to seek to heal the wounds created by , among other things , his reinstatement of a holocaust-denying bishop .
-lrb- 11.05.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic pope benedict calls israel 's security barrier in the west bank " tragic " 9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
pope visits west bank , calls for palestinian statehood -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 01.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de religion -pipe- 13.05.2009 pope visits west bank , calls for palestinian statehood großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : palestinians gave an enthusiastic welcome to pope benedict during a visit to bethlehem , pope benedict xvi voiced support for palestinian aspirations of an independent homeland and said he hoped the wall that israel has erected in and around the west bank would come down . speaking in bethlehem after holding a mass in manger square , the pope pressed calls to remove the wall and watch towers that seal bethlehem off from jerusalem .
" towering over us ... is a stark reminder of the stalemate that relations between israelis and palestinians seem to have reached - the wall , " the pope said as he stood in the shadow of israel 's separation wall in the aida refugee camp , which houses refugees from israel 's creation in 1948 .
the pope said it 's " understandable that palestinians feel frustrated , " adding that " their legitimate aspirations for permanent homes , for an independent palestinian state , remain unfulfilled . "
the camp is home to around 5,000 refugees .
bildunterschrift : palestinian children at the aida refugee camp next to a poster of the pope " i have seen , ... overshadowing much of bethlehem , the wall that intrudes into your territories , separating neighbors and dividing families , " the pope said in the town believed to be the birthplace of jesus christ .
" although walls can be easily built , we all know that they do not last forever .
they can be taken down . "
pope lends support to palestinian statehood earlier , thousands greeted the pope 's black limousine as he made his way to manger square where he said mass for about 5,000 people next to the church of the nativity that marks the spot where christians believe jesus was born to mary in a stable .
one of the aims of the pope 's visit is to attempt to preserve a shrinking christian presence in the middle east .
the christian population of bethlehem has decreased dramatically in recent years through emigration . thousands of christians left the town after a palestinian uprising in 2000 and was met by an israeli security clampdown and the start of construction of the barrier .
the pope acknowledged israel 's security concerns as well as palestinian suffering , and urged people not to " resort to acts of violence or terrorism . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : pope benedict xvi outside of the church of the nativity in bethlehem the pope said his heart went out to those caught up in the conflict in gaza , adding that he was praying for an end to the israeli embargo of the gaza strip .
earlier , the pontiff told palestinian president mahmoud abbas that he backed the creation of a palestinian state .
" the holy see supports the right of your people to a sovereign palestinian homeland in the land of your forefathers , secure and at peace with your neighbors , within internationally recognized borders , " he said .
the pope 's comments are the vatican 's strongest and most symbolic public backing yet for an independent palestinian state .
the two-state solution is supported by abbas , arab nations and western powers .
but the new israeli prime minister , benjamin netanyahu , has declined so far to endorse it .
visit dogged by controversy the german-born pope 's week-long trip to the middle east , his first visit to the region , has not been without controversy .
on tuesday , a row erupted over the pope 's membership as a teenager of the hitler youth , as he paid a historic visit to holy sites in jerusalem .
vatican spokesman , federico lombardi , said the pontiff had " never , never , never " belonged to the organization , but later changed his version , saying that he had been a member but his membership was compulsory .
in his own 1997 memoirs , pope benedict had said he had been registered with the hitler youth while he was at a seminary .
the latest row comes on the heels of comments by some israeli leaders complaining that the pope did not go far enough in offering emotion in remarks he made on monday at the yad vashem memorial to the jewish dead of the holocaust . sp , pfd reuters / ap / dpa send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de pope continues balancing act on tour of holy sites in jerusalem pope benedict xvi became the first pope to enter a politically-charged shrine in jerusalem sacred to jews and muslims .
the pope continues to face criticism on the second day of a week-long visit to the region .
-lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- pope continues middle east tour as criticism of yad vashem speech grows pope benedict xvi used a service at jerusalem 's yad vashem memorial to express " deep compassion " for the victims of the holocaust .
but jewish leaders in germany and israel criticized the pope for not going far enough .
-lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- pope seeks to salve holocaust wounds pope benedict xvi is on his first trip to israel .
he has used a speech to seek to heal the wounds created by , among other things , his reinstatement of a holocaust-denying bishop .
-lrb- 11.05.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic pope benedict calls israel 's security barrier in the west bank " tragic " feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany agrees on bad bank scheme -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de banking -pipe- 13.05.2009 germany agrees on bad bank scheme großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : steinbrueck wants to reassure voters they wo n't wear the cost of the bail-out the german cabinet has agreed on a plan to clean up toxic assets from bank balance sheets .
in the run-up to the election , the issue has become highly politically charged . the scheme , which forms a key element of berlin 's bid to turn europe 's biggest economy around , would allow banks to park their toxic assets for up to 20 years , in specially created institutions .
banks would receive government backed bonds in return .
finance minister peer steinbrueck said the banks would still be held responsible for the toxic assets and , in the long run , they would bear the cost of transferring and holding the assets .
just five months out from a national election , the issue has proved politically prickly .
politicians are torn between the pressing need to revive germany 's foundering banking sector and burdening taxpayers with a huge bank bailout .
berlin hopes that once the toxic holdings have been removed from banks ' balance sheets , they will begin lending to each other and to businesses and consumers again .
that is meant to jolt the german economy back to life .
economic forecasters predict 6 percent shrinkage in europe 's biggest economy in 2009 . ch / ncy / afp / dpa send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german government steps in to clean up banks ' toxic assets the german government has drawn up a draft plan to clean up toxic assets from banks ' balance sheets , a key part of berlin 's bid to turn around europe 's biggest economy .
-lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- koehler blasts banks for keeping quiet over financial crisis in run up to presidential race , german president horst koehler has hit out at bankers ' greed , but is optimistic that the dark cloud of global financial crisis will have a silver lining .
-lrb- 02.05.2009 -rrb- leaked list reveals german banks have 816 billion euros in toxic assets a german newspaper has published a leaked list from the bafin financial oversight group that shows german banks are weighed down under 816 billion euros in toxic assets .
-lrb- 25.04.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic sweden 's bad bank scheme what is a bad bank ? radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live kino we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
culture west german photographer thomas hoepker documented life abroad - in east germany - in the 1970s .
watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
sobibor survivor : demjanjuk trial will go down in history -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 06.12.2010 home news germany europe world from tierra del fuego to tijuana asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de world war ii -pipe- 13.05.2009 sobibor survivor : demjanjuk trial will go down in history großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some 250,000 jews , gypsies and political prisoners were murdered in sobibor 's gas chambers deutsche welle spoke with thomas blatt , one of few to escape from the nazi-run sobibor extermination camp .
he says he does n't care whether john demjanjuk is jailed for working at the camp , just that he tells the truth . thomas blatt was one of the few to survive the sobibor extermination camp in nazi-occupied poland during world war ii .
the 82-year-old is now a key witness in the munich trial of john demjanjuk , who is alleged to have been a guard at sobibor .
deutsche welle : why did you decide to come to germany for this trial ?
thomas blatt : because when i escaped from sobibor , i promised myself that if i survived , i will do everything to tell the story of sobibor .
and that 's what i 'm doing .
and i know that demjanjuk knows a lot , because demjanjuk was in the middle of the holocaust .
and he denies that it is him , that he was not a guard at sobibor , but he was .
i do n't care if demjanjuk is in jail or not .
i do care that he should tell the truth .
and the truth is , that he was a guard at sobibor .
sobibor was not a simple concentration camp .
sobibor was an extermination camp .
at sobibor the guards were simple murderers .
in a concentration camp a guard was a guard , … responsible -lsb- for preventing -rsb- people from running away .
but at sobibor they were simple murderers .
you said that among the guards at sobibor some were sadistic .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : demjanjuk 's wartime identification card is a major piece of evidence against him i said that they were sadistic and that some guards escaped from sobibor .
but demjanjuk did not escape .
he was there all the time with the nazis .
i do n't say that i -lsb- saw -rsb- him for sure .
-lsb- the guards -rsb- were very sadistic .
and we were more afraid of the guards than we were of the germans .
i 'm sure i know that he was a guard .
it is my duty to tell .
he should tell what sobibor was for .
what will be your reaction if there is not enough evidence to find mr. demjanjuk guilty ?
i believe that he will tell the truth , the way it was in sobibor .
and this will be part of history .
this will be -lsb- something -rsb- for the new generation to learn .
because what he has seen , few people have seen .
i strongly believe he will tell the truth .
and later demjanjuk could go free .
for me his testimony is very important , and that 's why i am in munich following demjanjuk 's story .
i am sorry in a way for demjanjuk .
he 's an old man , 89 years old .
he 's sick , he has a family .
so i 'm sorry in a way .
and i think that many people think the same way : he 's an old man , he 's suffered so much .
but i also see the other side of demjanjuk .
i see him as a terrible sadist , a murderer .
he did n't run away from his work .
interview : michael lawton editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de suspected nazi prison camp guard deported to germany the us has deported an alleged former nazi prison camp guard to germany .
jewish leaders hailed john demjanjuk 's deportation , saying they hoped it was n't too late for the 89-year-old to be brought to justice .
-lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- opinion : no statute of limitations on horrors of the holocaust after decades of judicial wrangling , the alleged nazi criminal john demjanjuk is to stand trial in germany .
on tuesday he was flown to munich and brought to a prison awaiting trial .
cornelia rabitz has this commentary : -lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- us seeks to clear path for demjanjuk deportation , again the us government has sought to clear the way to deport alleged former death camp guard john demjanjuk , just days after a us court postponed his deportation to wait for proof that he is fit to travel to germany .
-lrb- 21.04.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic michael lawton talks to raphael gross of the fritz bauer institute for holocaust studies about john demjanjuk nazi war crimes suspect john demjanjuk deported to germany -lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
bundeswehr how well-prepared will the new-look bundeswehr be for the challenges of the 21st century ?
watch the video learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan new web site check out deutsche welle 's new asia page in english .
dw asia online latin america take a multimedia journey discover the region and its people news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's newest media partner © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
sobibor survivor : demjanjuk trial will go down in history -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 28.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de world war ii -pipe- 13.05.2009 sobibor survivor : demjanjuk trial will go down in history großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some 250,000 jews , gypsies and political prisoners were murdered in sobibor 's gas chambers deutsche welle spoke with thomas blatt , one of few to escape from the nazi-run sobibor extermination camp .
he says he does n't care whether john demjanjuk is jailed for working at the camp , just that he tells the truth . thomas blatt was one of the few to survive the sobibor extermination camp in nazi-occupied poland during world war ii .
the 82-year-old is now a key witness in the munich trial of john demjanjuk , who is alleged to have been a guard at sobibor .
deutsche welle : why did you decide to come to germany for this trial ?
thomas blatt : because when i escaped from sobibor , i promised myself that if i survived , i will do everything to tell the story of sobibor .
and that 's what i 'm doing .
and i know that demjanjuk knows a lot , because demjanjuk was in the middle of the holocaust .
and he denies that it is him , that he was not a guard at sobibor , but he was .
i do n't care if demjanjuk is in jail or not .
i do care that he should tell the truth .
and the truth is , that he was a guard at sobibor .
sobibor was not a simple concentration camp .
sobibor was an extermination camp .
at sobibor the guards were simple murderers .
in a concentration camp a guard was a guard , … responsible -lsb- for preventing -rsb- people from running away .
but at sobibor they were simple murderers .
you said that among the guards at sobibor some were sadistic .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : demjanjuk 's wartime identification card is a major piece of evidence against him i said that they were sadistic and that some guards escaped from sobibor .
but demjanjuk did not escape .
he was there all the time with the nazis .
i do n't say that i -lsb- saw -rsb- him for sure .
-lsb- the guards -rsb- were very sadistic .
and we were more afraid of the guards than we were of the germans .
i 'm sure i know that he was a guard .
it is my duty to tell .
he should tell what sobibor was for .
what will be your reaction if there is not enough evidence to find mr. demjanjuk guilty ?
i believe that he will tell the truth , the way it was in sobibor .
and this will be part of history .
this will be -lsb- something -rsb- for the new generation to learn .
because what he has seen , few people have seen .
i strongly believe he will tell the truth .
and later demjanjuk could go free .
for me his testimony is very important , and that 's why i am in munich following demjanjuk 's story .
i am sorry in a way for demjanjuk .
he 's an old man , 89 years old .
he 's sick , he has a family .
so i 'm sorry in a way .
and i think that many people think the same way : he 's an old man , he 's suffered so much .
but i also see the other side of demjanjuk .
i see him as a terrible sadist , a murderer .
he did n't run away from his work .
interview : michael lawton editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de suspected nazi prison camp guard deported to germany the us has deported an alleged former nazi prison camp guard to germany .
jewish leaders hailed john demjanjuk 's deportation , saying they hoped it was n't too late for the 89-year-old to be brought to justice .
-lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- opinion : no statute of limitations on horrors of the holocaust after decades of judicial wrangling , the alleged nazi criminal john demjanjuk is to stand trial in germany .
on tuesday he was flown to munich and brought to a prison awaiting trial .
cornelia rabitz has this commentary : -lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- us seeks to clear path for demjanjuk deportation , again the us government has sought to clear the way to deport alleged former death camp guard john demjanjuk , just days after a us court postponed his deportation to wait for proof that he is fit to travel to germany .
-lrb- 21.04.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic michael lawton talks to raphael gross of the fritz bauer institute for holocaust studies about john demjanjuk nazi war crimes suspect john demjanjuk deported to germany -lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
in depth focus on libya dw-world looks at the turmoil in libya : what it means for tripoli and the rest of the world .
podcast series college grad leom left a modern life in cambodia 's capital to bring knowledge to a remote village .
download the report subscribe to the series on itunes past episodes international conference media representatives around the world gather in bonn to discuss human rights .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
sobibor survivor : demjanjuk trial will go down in history -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 16.10.2010 home news germany europe world from tierra del fuego to tijuana asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de world war ii -pipe- 13.05.2009 sobibor survivor : demjanjuk trial will go down in history großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some 250,000 jews , gypsies and political prisoners were murdered in sobibor 's gas chambers deutsche welle spoke with thomas blatt , one of few to escape from the nazi-run sobibor extermination camp .
he says he does n't care whether john demjanjuk is jailed for working at the camp , just that he tells the truth . thomas blatt was one of the few to survive the sobibor extermination camp in nazi-occupied poland during world war ii .
the 82-year-old is now a key witness in the munich trial of john demjanjuk , who is alleged to have been a guard at sobibor .
deutsche welle : why did you decide to come to germany for this trial ?
thomas blatt : because when i escaped from sobibor , i promised myself that if i survived , i will do everything to tell the story of sobibor .
and that 's what i 'm doing .
and i know that demjanjuk knows a lot , because demjanjuk was in the middle of the holocaust .
and he denies that it is him , that he was not a guard at sobibor , but he was .
i do n't care if demjanjuk is in jail or not .
i do care that he should tell the truth .
and the truth is , that he was a guard at sobibor .
sobibor was not a simple concentration camp .
sobibor was an extermination camp .
at sobibor the guards were simple murderers .
in a concentration camp a guard was a guard , … responsible -lsb- for preventing -rsb- people from running away .
but at sobibor they were simple murderers .
you said that among the guards at sobibor some were sadistic .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : demjanjuk 's wartime identification card is a major piece of evidence against him i said that they were sadistic and that some guards escaped from sobibor .
but demjanjuk did not escape .
he was there all the time with the nazis .
i do n't say that i -lsb- saw -rsb- him for sure .
-lsb- the guards -rsb- were very sadistic .
and we were more afraid of the guards than we were of the germans .
i 'm sure i know that he was a guard .
it is my duty to tell .
he should tell what sobibor was for .
what will be your reaction if there is not enough evidence to find mr. demjanjuk guilty ?
i believe that he will tell the truth , the way it was in sobibor .
and this will be part of history .
this will be -lsb- something -rsb- for the new generation to learn .
because what he has seen , few people have seen .
i strongly believe he will tell the truth .
and later demjanjuk could go free .
for me his testimony is very important , and that 's why i am in munich following demjanjuk 's story .
i am sorry in a way for demjanjuk .
he 's an old man , 89 years old .
he 's sick , he has a family .
so i 'm sorry in a way .
and i think that many people think the same way : he 's an old man , he 's suffered so much .
but i also see the other side of demjanjuk .
i see him as a terrible sadist , a murderer .
he did n't run away from his work .
interview : michael lawton editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de suspected nazi prison camp guard deported to germany the us has deported an alleged former nazi prison camp guard to germany .
jewish leaders hailed john demjanjuk 's deportation , saying they hoped it was n't too late for the 89-year-old to be brought to justice .
-lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- opinion : no statute of limitations on horrors of the holocaust after decades of judicial wrangling , the alleged nazi criminal john demjanjuk is to stand trial in germany .
on tuesday he was flown to munich and brought to a prison awaiting trial .
cornelia rabitz has this commentary : -lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- us seeks to clear path for demjanjuk deportation , again the us government has sought to clear the way to deport alleged former death camp guard john demjanjuk , just days after a us court postponed his deportation to wait for proof that he is fit to travel to germany .
-lrb- 21.04.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic michael lawton talks to raphael gross of the fritz bauer institute for holocaust studies about john demjanjuk nazi war crimes suspect john demjanjuk deported to germany -lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live life at gitmo dw-tv visits guantanamo bay for a closer look at the infamous detention camp watch the video learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan new web site check out deutsche welle 's new asia page in english .
dw asia online news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's newest media partner latin america take a multimedia journey discover the region and its people © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
sobibor survivor : demjanjuk trial will go down in history -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.09.2010 home news germany europe world from tierra del fuego to tijuana asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de world war ii -pipe- 13.05.2009 sobibor survivor : demjanjuk trial will go down in history großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some 250,000 jews , gypsies and political prisoners were murdered in sobibor 's gas chambers deutsche welle spoke with thomas blatt , one of few to escape from the nazi-run sobibor extermination camp .
he says he does n't care whether john demjanjuk is jailed for working at the camp , just that he tells the truth . thomas blatt was one of the few to survive the sobibor extermination camp in nazi-occupied poland during world war ii .
the 82-year-old is now a key witness in the munich trial of john demjanjuk , who is alleged to have been a guard at sobibor .
deutsche welle : why did you decide to come to germany for this trial ?
thomas blatt : because when i escaped from sobibor , i promised myself that if i survived , i will do everything to tell the story of sobibor .
and that 's what i 'm doing .
and i know that demjanjuk knows a lot , because demjanjuk was in the middle of the holocaust .
and he denies that it is him , that he was not a guard at sobibor , but he was .
i do n't care if demjanjuk is in jail or not .
i do care that he should tell the truth .
and the truth is , that he was a guard at sobibor .
sobibor was not a simple concentration camp .
sobibor was an extermination camp .
at sobibor the guards were simple murderers .
in a concentration camp a guard was a guard , … responsible -lsb- for preventing -rsb- people from running away .
but at sobibor they were simple murderers .
you said that among the guards at sobibor some were sadistic .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : demjanjuk 's wartime identification card is a major piece of evidence against him i said that they were sadistic and that some guards escaped from sobibor .
but demjanjuk did not escape .
he was there all the time with the nazis .
i do n't say that i -lsb- saw -rsb- him for sure .
-lsb- the guards -rsb- were very sadistic .
and we were more afraid of the guards than we were of the germans .
i 'm sure i know that he was a guard .
it is my duty to tell .
he should tell what sobibor was for .
what will be your reaction if there is not enough evidence to find mr. demjanjuk guilty ?
i believe that he will tell the truth , the way it was in sobibor .
and this will be part of history .
this will be -lsb- something -rsb- for the new generation to learn .
because what he has seen , few people have seen .
i strongly believe he will tell the truth .
and later demjanjuk could go free .
for me his testimony is very important , and that 's why i am in munich following demjanjuk 's story .
i am sorry in a way for demjanjuk .
he 's an old man , 89 years old .
he 's sick , he has a family .
so i 'm sorry in a way .
and i think that many people think the same way : he 's an old man , he 's suffered so much .
but i also see the other side of demjanjuk .
i see him as a terrible sadist , a murderer .
he did n't run away from his work .
interview : michael lawton editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de suspected nazi prison camp guard deported to germany the us has deported an alleged former nazi prison camp guard to germany .
jewish leaders hailed john demjanjuk 's deportation , saying they hoped it was n't too late for the 89-year-old to be brought to justice .
-lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- opinion : no statute of limitations on horrors of the holocaust after decades of judicial wrangling , the alleged nazi criminal john demjanjuk is to stand trial in germany .
on tuesday he was flown to munich and brought to a prison awaiting trial .
cornelia rabitz has this commentary : -lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- us seeks to clear path for demjanjuk deportation , again the us government has sought to clear the way to deport alleged former death camp guard john demjanjuk , just days after a us court postponed his deportation to wait for proof that he is fit to travel to germany .
-lrb- 21.04.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic michael lawton talks to raphael gross of the fritz bauer institute for holocaust studies about john demjanjuk nazi war crimes suspect john demjanjuk deported to germany -lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live burning books the international community has condemned plans by a florida church to burn copies of the koran .
watch the video afghan elections the us commander in afghanistan , general petraeus , wants more nato troops ahead of elections .
watch the video the aftermath deptuy head of deutsche welle south asia thomas bärthlein talks to asia compact from islamabad .
listen to the interview images from pakistan learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan new web site check out deutsche welle 's new asia page in english .
dw asia online news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's newest media partner latin america take a multimedia journey discover the region and its people © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
wolfsburg , bayern and hertha win matches -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 30.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de bundesliga -pipe- 13.05.2009 wolfsburg , bayern and hertha win matches großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : wolfsburg 's grafite celebrates bundesliga leaders vfl wolfsburg and their two main challengers bayern munich and hertha berlin showed the way on tuesday as they won their midweek league matches . hertha berlin secured a 2-1 victory at cologne .
wolfsburg beat borussia dortmund 3-0 , and bayern munich scored three times in the second half en route to a 3-0 victory over bayer leverkusen .
wolfsburg and bayern are now at the top of the table with 63 points and two games remaining , with wolfsburg just two goals better than their rivals from southern germany .
hertha berlin are a point behind the two , while vfb stuttgart could move to 61 points if they win at schalke 04 on wednesday .
the other game on tuesday saw bottom club karlsruhe sc all but relegated after giving away a 2-0 lead against hanover 96 before finally losing 3-2 .
wolfsburg striking duo grafite and edin dzeko again provided the goals that kept the northern german side at the top .
dzeko opened the scoring in the 14th minute with his 21st goal of the season , before the brazilian grafite added a second goal two minutes after the restart .
dzeko scored his second goal six minutes from the end after being set up by grafite , who heads the goal scorer standings with 24 goals .
dortmund ended the game with ten men after kevin-prince boateng was sent off in the 75th minute - just eight minutes after coming on as a substitute .
wolfsburg coach felix magath said that his side wanted to do well after losing their last game at vfb stuttgart 4-1 , adding , " we went in search of goals from the word go . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : dortmund 's head coach juergen klopp klopp believes dortmund coach juergen klopp said , “ we have the quality and at the end of the day , that will come through . "
he noted that wolfsburg played very well and said , " they deserved to win .
they are a strong side and we certainly do not think that we lost badly .
at the end of the day , the number of goals scored against us , does not matter really . "
bayern wins again in munich , the visitors were denied two penalties in the first half , but could do nothing as luca toni , franck ribery and lukas podolski scored the goals that kept bayern in the hunt for a 22nd german championship .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : jupp heynckes bayern has now won the last three games under new coach jupp heynckes , who took over when juergen klinsmann was sacked .
he changed the team on a few positions and gave germany striker podolski , who spent most of the time on the bench under klinsmann , a starting place .
podolski , who scored one goal and set up the others , saying , " we did well as a team and trained well .
i think you can see that on the field .
the new coach gave me the trust and played me from the beginning and i tried to repay him on the field . "
bayern manager uli hoeness said that his side could have won by a higher score .
" we decided not to tell the players what the other scores were and i still do not think that the championship will be decided on goal difference .
one team will still slip up . "
cicero gave berlin the lead in cologne three minutes from the break , before patrick ebert added a second midway through the second half with a shot that took a wicked deflection .
adil chihi pulled one back for cologne late in the game with his first-ever bundesliga goal .
karlsruhe looked on course for an important victory against hanover after alexander lashvili and lars stindl gave the home side a 2-0 lead after just 32 minutes .
however , sergio pinto and mikael forssell equalized matters before the break and hanno balitsch found a winner for hanover at the end of 64 minutes .
karlsruhe are last in the table with just 23 points and could be relegated on wednesday if three of the four teams directly above them win . av / ai / dpa / ap send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de wolfsburg on course for first-ever bundesliga title wolfsburg remain on target thrashing hoffenheim 4-0 as bayern win their first match in post-klinsmann era with four matches to play this season .
-lrb- 02.05.2009 -rrb- bremen ends hamburg hopes for bundesliga title bremen once again outclassed hamburg when they beat their northern german rivals 2-0 in a bundesliga match on sunday , all but killing off the side 's hopes for a league title .
-lrb- 10.05.2009 -rrb- gomez scores four as stuttgart thrashes wolfsburg mario gomez scored all four goals to take vfb stuttgart to a stunning 4-1 victory over bundesliga leaders vfl wolfsburg on saturday .
defending champions bayern munich won 3-1 against energie cottbus .
-lrb- 09.05.2009 -rrb- dw-tv europe live quadriga - der internationale talk we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus newslink plus - your link to europe listen live dw-radio would you listen ?
the best of german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report referees a new high-tech center in spain hopes to help referees improve their skills .
listen to the report media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
wolfsburg , bayern and hertha win matches -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 28.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de bundesliga -pipe- 13.05.2009 wolfsburg , bayern and hertha win matches großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : wolfsburg 's grafite celebrates bundesliga leaders vfl wolfsburg and their two main challengers bayern munich and hertha berlin showed the way on tuesday as they won their midweek league matches . hertha berlin secured a 2-1 victory at cologne .
wolfsburg beat borussia dortmund 3-0 , and bayern munich scored three times in the second half en route to a 3-0 victory over bayer leverkusen .
wolfsburg and bayern are now at the top of the table with 63 points and two games remaining , with wolfsburg just two goals better than their rivals from southern germany .
hertha berlin are a point behind the two , while vfb stuttgart could move to 61 points if they win at schalke 04 on wednesday .
the other game on tuesday saw bottom club karlsruhe sc all but relegated after giving away a 2-0 lead against hanover 96 before finally losing 3-2 .
wolfsburg striking duo grafite and edin dzeko again provided the goals that kept the northern german side at the top .
dzeko opened the scoring in the 14th minute with his 21st goal of the season , before the brazilian grafite added a second goal two minutes after the restart .
dzeko scored his second goal six minutes from the end after being set up by grafite , who heads the goal scorer standings with 24 goals .
dortmund ended the game with ten men after kevin-prince boateng was sent off in the 75th minute - just eight minutes after coming on as a substitute .
wolfsburg coach felix magath said that his side wanted to do well after losing their last game at vfb stuttgart 4-1 , adding , " we went in search of goals from the word go . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : dortmund 's head coach juergen klopp klopp believes dortmund coach juergen klopp said , “ we have the quality and at the end of the day , that will come through . "
he noted that wolfsburg played very well and said , " they deserved to win .
they are a strong side and we certainly do not think that we lost badly .
at the end of the day , the number of goals scored against us , does not matter really . "
bayern wins again in munich , the visitors were denied two penalties in the first half , but could do nothing as luca toni , franck ribery and lukas podolski scored the goals that kept bayern in the hunt for a 22nd german championship .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : jupp heynckes bayern has now won the last three games under new coach jupp heynckes , who took over when juergen klinsmann was sacked .
he changed the team on a few positions and gave germany striker podolski , who spent most of the time on the bench under klinsmann , a starting place .
podolski , who scored one goal and set up the others , saying , " we did well as a team and trained well .
i think you can see that on the field .
the new coach gave me the trust and played me from the beginning and i tried to repay him on the field . "
bayern manager uli hoeness said that his side could have won by a higher score .
" we decided not to tell the players what the other scores were and i still do not think that the championship will be decided on goal difference .
one team will still slip up . "
cicero gave berlin the lead in cologne three minutes from the break , before patrick ebert added a second midway through the second half with a shot that took a wicked deflection .
adil chihi pulled one back for cologne late in the game with his first-ever bundesliga goal .
karlsruhe looked on course for an important victory against hanover after alexander lashvili and lars stindl gave the home side a 2-0 lead after just 32 minutes .
however , sergio pinto and mikael forssell equalized matters before the break and hanno balitsch found a winner for hanover at the end of 64 minutes .
karlsruhe are last in the table with just 23 points and could be relegated on wednesday if three of the four teams directly above them win . av / ai / dpa / ap send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de wolfsburg on course for first-ever bundesliga title wolfsburg remain on target thrashing hoffenheim 4-0 as bayern win their first match in post-klinsmann era with four matches to play this season .
-lrb- 02.05.2009 -rrb- bremen ends hamburg hopes for bundesliga title bremen once again outclassed hamburg when they beat their northern german rivals 2-0 in a bundesliga match on sunday , all but killing off the side 's hopes for a league title .
-lrb- 10.05.2009 -rrb- gomez scores four as stuttgart thrashes wolfsburg mario gomez scored all four goals to take vfb stuttgart to a stunning 4-1 victory over bundesliga leaders vfl wolfsburg on saturday .
defending champions bayern munich won 3-1 against energie cottbus .
-lrb- 09.05.2009 -rrb- dw-tv europe live global 3000 - das globalisierungsmagazin we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live living in germany listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-radio listen to the latest from german soccer on dw-radio .
sports report women 's world cup the german women 's team got off to a good start in their attempt to defend their title at home .
listen to the audio .
world cup brazil 's hopes for winning this summer 's world cup depend on five-time player of the year marta .
watch the video anti-racism girls wanted : scouting for germany 's next generation of female football talent listen to the audio art women 's football - a source of inspiration watch the video video women 's soccer is more popular than ever in the us .
watch the video final standings click here for the final 2010-11 bundesliga table . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
wolfsburg , bayern and hertha win matches -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 10.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de bundesliga -pipe- 13.05.2009 wolfsburg , bayern and hertha win matches großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : wolfsburg 's grafite celebrates bundesliga leaders vfl wolfsburg and their two main challengers bayern munich and hertha berlin showed the way on tuesday as they won their midweek league matches . hertha berlin secured a 2-1 victory at cologne .
wolfsburg beat borussia dortmund 3-0 , and bayern munich scored three times in the second half en route to a 3-0 victory over bayer leverkusen .
wolfsburg and bayern are now at the top of the table with 63 points and two games remaining , with wolfsburg just two goals better than their rivals from southern germany .
hertha berlin are a point behind the two , while vfb stuttgart could move to 61 points if they win at schalke 04 on wednesday .
the other game on tuesday saw bottom club karlsruhe sc all but relegated after giving away a 2-0 lead against hanover 96 before finally losing 3-2 .
wolfsburg striking duo grafite and edin dzeko again provided the goals that kept the northern german side at the top .
dzeko opened the scoring in the 14th minute with his 21st goal of the season , before the brazilian grafite added a second goal two minutes after the restart .
dzeko scored his second goal six minutes from the end after being set up by grafite , who heads the goal scorer standings with 24 goals .
dortmund ended the game with ten men after kevin-prince boateng was sent off in the 75th minute - just eight minutes after coming on as a substitute .
wolfsburg coach felix magath said that his side wanted to do well after losing their last game at vfb stuttgart 4-1 , adding , " we went in search of goals from the word go . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : dortmund 's head coach juergen klopp klopp believes dortmund coach juergen klopp said , “ we have the quality and at the end of the day , that will come through . "
he noted that wolfsburg played very well and said , " they deserved to win .
they are a strong side and we certainly do not think that we lost badly .
at the end of the day , the number of goals scored against us , does not matter really . "
bayern wins again in munich , the visitors were denied two penalties in the first half , but could do nothing as luca toni , franck ribery and lukas podolski scored the goals that kept bayern in the hunt for a 22nd german championship .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : jupp heynckes bayern has now won the last three games under new coach jupp heynckes , who took over when juergen klinsmann was sacked .
he changed the team on a few positions and gave germany striker podolski , who spent most of the time on the bench under klinsmann , a starting place .
podolski , who scored one goal and set up the others , saying , " we did well as a team and trained well .
i think you can see that on the field .
the new coach gave me the trust and played me from the beginning and i tried to repay him on the field . "
bayern manager uli hoeness said that his side could have won by a higher score .
" we decided not to tell the players what the other scores were and i still do not think that the championship will be decided on goal difference .
one team will still slip up . "
cicero gave berlin the lead in cologne three minutes from the break , before patrick ebert added a second midway through the second half with a shot that took a wicked deflection .
adil chihi pulled one back for cologne late in the game with his first-ever bundesliga goal .
karlsruhe looked on course for an important victory against hanover after alexander lashvili and lars stindl gave the home side a 2-0 lead after just 32 minutes .
however , sergio pinto and mikael forssell equalized matters before the break and hanno balitsch found a winner for hanover at the end of 64 minutes .
karlsruhe are last in the table with just 23 points and could be relegated on wednesday if three of the four teams directly above them win . av / ai / dpa / ap send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de wolfsburg on course for first-ever bundesliga title wolfsburg remain on target thrashing hoffenheim 4-0 as bayern win their first match in post-klinsmann era with four matches to play this season .
-lrb- 02.05.2009 -rrb- bremen ends hamburg hopes for bundesliga title bremen once again outclassed hamburg when they beat their northern german rivals 2-0 in a bundesliga match on sunday , all but killing off the side 's hopes for a league title .
-lrb- 10.05.2009 -rrb- gomez scores four as stuttgart thrashes wolfsburg mario gomez scored all four goals to take vfb stuttgart to a stunning 4-1 victory over bundesliga leaders vfl wolfsburg on saturday .
defending champions bayern munich won 3-1 against energie cottbus .
-lrb- 09.05.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . dw-tv europe live typisch deutsch we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live pulse listen live dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results at a glance .
dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia moenchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
wolfsburg , bayern and hertha win matches -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de bundesliga -pipe- 13.05.2009 wolfsburg , bayern and hertha win matches großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : wolfsburg 's grafite celebrates bundesliga leaders vfl wolfsburg and their two main challengers bayern munich and hertha berlin showed the way on tuesday as they won their midweek league matches . hertha berlin secured a 2-1 victory at cologne .
wolfsburg beat borussia dortmund 3-0 , and bayern munich scored three times in the second half en route to a 3-0 victory over bayer leverkusen .
wolfsburg and bayern are now at the top of the table with 63 points and two games remaining , with wolfsburg just two goals better than their rivals from southern germany .
hertha berlin are a point behind the two , while vfb stuttgart could move to 61 points if they win at schalke 04 on wednesday .
the other game on tuesday saw bottom club karlsruhe sc all but relegated after giving away a 2-0 lead against hanover 96 before finally losing 3-2 .
wolfsburg striking duo grafite and edin dzeko again provided the goals that kept the northern german side at the top .
dzeko opened the scoring in the 14th minute with his 21st goal of the season , before the brazilian grafite added a second goal two minutes after the restart .
dzeko scored his second goal six minutes from the end after being set up by grafite , who heads the goal scorer standings with 24 goals .
dortmund ended the game with ten men after kevin-prince boateng was sent off in the 75th minute - just eight minutes after coming on as a substitute .
wolfsburg coach felix magath said that his side wanted to do well after losing their last game at vfb stuttgart 4-1 , adding , " we went in search of goals from the word go . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : dortmund 's head coach juergen klopp klopp believes dortmund coach juergen klopp said , “ we have the quality and at the end of the day , that will come through . "
he noted that wolfsburg played very well and said , " they deserved to win .
they are a strong side and we certainly do not think that we lost badly .
at the end of the day , the number of goals scored against us , does not matter really . "
bayern wins again in munich , the visitors were denied two penalties in the first half , but could do nothing as luca toni , franck ribery and lukas podolski scored the goals that kept bayern in the hunt for a 22nd german championship .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : jupp heynckes bayern has now won the last three games under new coach jupp heynckes , who took over when juergen klinsmann was sacked .
he changed the team on a few positions and gave germany striker podolski , who spent most of the time on the bench under klinsmann , a starting place .
podolski , who scored one goal and set up the others , saying , " we did well as a team and trained well .
i think you can see that on the field .
the new coach gave me the trust and played me from the beginning and i tried to repay him on the field . "
bayern manager uli hoeness said that his side could have won by a higher score .
" we decided not to tell the players what the other scores were and i still do not think that the championship will be decided on goal difference .
one team will still slip up . "
cicero gave berlin the lead in cologne three minutes from the break , before patrick ebert added a second midway through the second half with a shot that took a wicked deflection .
adil chihi pulled one back for cologne late in the game with his first-ever bundesliga goal .
karlsruhe looked on course for an important victory against hanover after alexander lashvili and lars stindl gave the home side a 2-0 lead after just 32 minutes .
however , sergio pinto and mikael forssell equalized matters before the break and hanno balitsch found a winner for hanover at the end of 64 minutes .
karlsruhe are last in the table with just 23 points and could be relegated on wednesday if three of the four teams directly above them win . av / ai / dpa / ap send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de wolfsburg on course for first-ever bundesliga title wolfsburg remain on target thrashing hoffenheim 4-0 as bayern win their first match in post-klinsmann era with four matches to play this season .
-lrb- 02.05.2009 -rrb- bremen ends hamburg hopes for bundesliga title bremen once again outclassed hamburg when they beat their northern german rivals 2-0 in a bundesliga match on sunday , all but killing off the side 's hopes for a league title .
-lrb- 10.05.2009 -rrb- gomez scores four as stuttgart thrashes wolfsburg mario gomez scored all four goals to take vfb stuttgart to a stunning 4-1 victory over bundesliga leaders vfl wolfsburg on saturday .
defending champions bayern munich won 3-1 against energie cottbus .
-lrb- 09.05.2009 -rrb- dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio listen to the latest from german soccer on dw-radio .
sports report national team live coverage !
follow @ dw _ sports on twitter for germany 's friendly against uruguay : may 29 , 17:45 utc .
scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
wolfsburg , bayern and hertha win matches -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 07.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de bundesliga -pipe- 13.05.2009 wolfsburg , bayern and hertha win matches großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : wolfsburg 's grafite celebrates bundesliga leaders vfl wolfsburg and their two main challengers bayern munich and hertha berlin showed the way on tuesday as they won their midweek league matches . hertha berlin secured a 2-1 victory at cologne .
wolfsburg beat borussia dortmund 3-0 , and bayern munich scored three times in the second half en route to a 3-0 victory over bayer leverkusen .
wolfsburg and bayern are now at the top of the table with 63 points and two games remaining , with wolfsburg just two goals better than their rivals from southern germany .
hertha berlin are a point behind the two , while vfb stuttgart could move to 61 points if they win at schalke 04 on wednesday .
the other game on tuesday saw bottom club karlsruhe sc all but relegated after giving away a 2-0 lead against hanover 96 before finally losing 3-2 .
wolfsburg striking duo grafite and edin dzeko again provided the goals that kept the northern german side at the top .
dzeko opened the scoring in the 14th minute with his 21st goal of the season , before the brazilian grafite added a second goal two minutes after the restart .
dzeko scored his second goal six minutes from the end after being set up by grafite , who heads the goal scorer standings with 24 goals .
dortmund ended the game with ten men after kevin-prince boateng was sent off in the 75th minute - just eight minutes after coming on as a substitute .
wolfsburg coach felix magath said that his side wanted to do well after losing their last game at vfb stuttgart 4-1 , adding , " we went in search of goals from the word go . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : dortmund 's head coach juergen klopp klopp believes dortmund coach juergen klopp said , “ we have the quality and at the end of the day , that will come through . "
he noted that wolfsburg played very well and said , " they deserved to win .
they are a strong side and we certainly do not think that we lost badly .
at the end of the day , the number of goals scored against us , does not matter really . "
bayern wins again in munich , the visitors were denied two penalties in the first half , but could do nothing as luca toni , franck ribery and lukas podolski scored the goals that kept bayern in the hunt for a 22nd german championship .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : jupp heynckes bayern has now won the last three games under new coach jupp heynckes , who took over when juergen klinsmann was sacked .
he changed the team on a few positions and gave germany striker podolski , who spent most of the time on the bench under klinsmann , a starting place .
podolski , who scored one goal and set up the others , saying , " we did well as a team and trained well .
i think you can see that on the field .
the new coach gave me the trust and played me from the beginning and i tried to repay him on the field . "
bayern manager uli hoeness said that his side could have won by a higher score .
" we decided not to tell the players what the other scores were and i still do not think that the championship will be decided on goal difference .
one team will still slip up . "
cicero gave berlin the lead in cologne three minutes from the break , before patrick ebert added a second midway through the second half with a shot that took a wicked deflection .
adil chihi pulled one back for cologne late in the game with his first-ever bundesliga goal .
karlsruhe looked on course for an important victory against hanover after alexander lashvili and lars stindl gave the home side a 2-0 lead after just 32 minutes .
however , sergio pinto and mikael forssell equalized matters before the break and hanno balitsch found a winner for hanover at the end of 64 minutes .
karlsruhe are last in the table with just 23 points and could be relegated on wednesday if three of the four teams directly above them win . av / ai / dpa / ap send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de wolfsburg on course for first-ever bundesliga title wolfsburg remain on target thrashing hoffenheim 4-0 as bayern win their first match in post-klinsmann era with four matches to play this season .
-lrb- 02.05.2009 -rrb- bremen ends hamburg hopes for bundesliga title bremen once again outclassed hamburg when they beat their northern german rivals 2-0 in a bundesliga match on sunday , all but killing off the side 's hopes for a league title .
-lrb- 10.05.2009 -rrb- gomez scores four as stuttgart thrashes wolfsburg mario gomez scored all four goals to take vfb stuttgart to a stunning 4-1 victory over bundesliga leaders vfl wolfsburg on saturday .
defending champions bayern munich won 3-1 against energie cottbus .
-lrb- 09.05.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live hits in germany pop from the german top 100 listen live dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results at a glance . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
wolfsburg , bayern and hertha win matches -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 05.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de bundesliga -pipe- 13.05.2009 wolfsburg , bayern and hertha win matches großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : wolfsburg 's grafite celebrates bundesliga leaders vfl wolfsburg and their two main challengers bayern munich and hertha berlin showed the way on tuesday as they won their midweek league matches . hertha berlin secured a 2-1 victory at cologne .
wolfsburg beat borussia dortmund 3-0 , and bayern munich scored three times in the second half en route to a 3-0 victory over bayer leverkusen .
wolfsburg and bayern are now at the top of the table with 63 points and two games remaining , with wolfsburg just two goals better than their rivals from southern germany .
hertha berlin are a point behind the two , while vfb stuttgart could move to 61 points if they win at schalke 04 on wednesday .
the other game on tuesday saw bottom club karlsruhe sc all but relegated after giving away a 2-0 lead against hanover 96 before finally losing 3-2 .
wolfsburg striking duo grafite and edin dzeko again provided the goals that kept the northern german side at the top .
dzeko opened the scoring in the 14th minute with his 21st goal of the season , before the brazilian grafite added a second goal two minutes after the restart .
dzeko scored his second goal six minutes from the end after being set up by grafite , who heads the goal scorer standings with 24 goals .
dortmund ended the game with ten men after kevin-prince boateng was sent off in the 75th minute - just eight minutes after coming on as a substitute .
wolfsburg coach felix magath said that his side wanted to do well after losing their last game at vfb stuttgart 4-1 , adding , " we went in search of goals from the word go . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : dortmund 's head coach juergen klopp klopp believes dortmund coach juergen klopp said , “ we have the quality and at the end of the day , that will come through . "
he noted that wolfsburg played very well and said , " they deserved to win .
they are a strong side and we certainly do not think that we lost badly .
at the end of the day , the number of goals scored against us , does not matter really . "
bayern wins again in munich , the visitors were denied two penalties in the first half , but could do nothing as luca toni , franck ribery and lukas podolski scored the goals that kept bayern in the hunt for a 22nd german championship .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : jupp heynckes bayern has now won the last three games under new coach jupp heynckes , who took over when juergen klinsmann was sacked .
he changed the team on a few positions and gave germany striker podolski , who spent most of the time on the bench under klinsmann , a starting place .
podolski , who scored one goal and set up the others , saying , " we did well as a team and trained well .
i think you can see that on the field .
the new coach gave me the trust and played me from the beginning and i tried to repay him on the field . "
bayern manager uli hoeness said that his side could have won by a higher score .
" we decided not to tell the players what the other scores were and i still do not think that the championship will be decided on goal difference .
one team will still slip up . "
cicero gave berlin the lead in cologne three minutes from the break , before patrick ebert added a second midway through the second half with a shot that took a wicked deflection .
adil chihi pulled one back for cologne late in the game with his first-ever bundesliga goal .
karlsruhe looked on course for an important victory against hanover after alexander lashvili and lars stindl gave the home side a 2-0 lead after just 32 minutes .
however , sergio pinto and mikael forssell equalized matters before the break and hanno balitsch found a winner for hanover at the end of 64 minutes .
karlsruhe are last in the table with just 23 points and could be relegated on wednesday if three of the four teams directly above them win . av / ai / dpa / ap send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de wolfsburg on course for first-ever bundesliga title wolfsburg remain on target thrashing hoffenheim 4-0 as bayern win their first match in post-klinsmann era with four matches to play this season .
-lrb- 02.05.2009 -rrb- bremen ends hamburg hopes for bundesliga title bremen once again outclassed hamburg when they beat their northern german rivals 2-0 in a bundesliga match on sunday , all but killing off the side 's hopes for a league title .
-lrb- 10.05.2009 -rrb- gomez scores four as stuttgart thrashes wolfsburg mario gomez scored all four goals to take vfb stuttgart to a stunning 4-1 victory over bundesliga leaders vfl wolfsburg on saturday .
defending champions bayern munich won 3-1 against energie cottbus .
-lrb- 09.05.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live learning by ear listen live bundesliga predictions bumpy progress dw 's soccer pundits are having their bumps felt in an attempt to predict match day 15 results .
dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report high scorer freiburg 's papiss demba cisse opens up to dw-tv 's bundesliga kick off ! about his goalscoring ways .
watch the report scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results at a glance .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia moenchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
participation .
power .
politics : tomorrow 's politicians -pipe- pulse -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 25.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
pulse programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : germany 's youth gear up for the future part one : getting down to basics part four : first-time voters part three : the world 's youngest politician pulse -pipe- 13.05.2009 participation .
power .
politics : tomorrow 's politicians großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : peacefully protesting is just one way that people get politically active in germany but it 's not the only way find out more about germany 's next generation of politicians .
they 're involved in the youth branches of political groups and are trying to make a difference . politics in your own country can be confusing at the best of times .
but trying to understand the politics of a foreign country , like germany , can be tough .
what and who is the chancellor ?
what are the different parties , and what do they stand for ?
do young germans even care about politics ? this four-part series breaks it all down and finds answers to these questions - just as germany 's so-called " super election year " begins .
local , state , presidential , and european elections will be topped off by the big federal election in september .
part two : tomorrow 's politicians profiles different youth branches of political groups and four politicians - all in their mid 20s - who aren ’ t waiting around for someone else to create change . catherine graue send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic click to listen to part two : tomorrow 's politicians feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live word of the week learn a quirky or interesting german word each week .
word of the week photos see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
participation .
power .
politics : tomorrow 's politicians -pipe- pulse -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 26.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
pulse reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : germany 's youth gear up for the future part one : getting down to basics part four : first-time voters part three : the world 's youngest politician pulse -pipe- 13.05.2009 participation .
power .
politics : tomorrow 's politicians großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : peacefully protesting is just one way that people get politically active in germany but it 's not the only way find out more about germany 's next generation of politicians .
they 're involved in the youth branches of political groups and are trying to make a difference . politics in your own country can be confusing at the best of times .
but trying to understand the politics of a foreign country , like germany , can be tough .
what and who is the chancellor ?
what are the different parties , and what do they stand for ?
do young germans even care about politics ? this four-part series breaks it all down and finds answers to these questions - just as germany 's so-called " super election year " begins .
local , state , presidential , and european elections will be topped off by the big federal election in september .
part two : tomorrow 's politicians profiles different youth branches of political groups and four politicians - all in their mid 20s - who aren ’ t waiting around for someone else to create change . catherine graue send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic click to listen to part two : tomorrow 's politicians dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live arts on the air vienna ’ s annual cultural festival listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
radio feature soundscape 100 from candy pop to r ' n ' b , indie rock to disco punk , we bring you the best from the german charts .
word of the week learn a quirky or interesting german word each week .
word of the week photos see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
view from my window © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
participation .
power .
politics : tomorrow 's politicians -pipe- pulse -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 04.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
pulse programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : germany 's youth gear up for the future part one : getting down to basics part four : first-time voters part three : the world 's youngest politician pulse -pipe- 13.05.2009 participation .
power .
politics : tomorrow 's politicians großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : peacefully protesting is just one way that people get politically active in germany but it 's not the only way find out more about germany 's next generation of politicians .
they 're involved in the youth branches of political groups and are trying to make a difference . politics in your own country can be confusing at the best of times .
but trying to understand the politics of a foreign country , like germany , can be tough .
what and who is the chancellor ?
what are the different parties , and what do they stand for ?
do young germans even care about politics ? this four-part series breaks it all down and finds answers to these questions - just as germany 's so-called " super election year " begins .
local , state , presidential , and european elections will be topped off by the big federal election in september .
part two : tomorrow 's politicians profiles different youth branches of political groups and four politicians - all in their mid 20s - who aren ’ t waiting around for someone else to create change . catherine graue send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic click to listen to part two : tomorrow 's politicians feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live living in germany listen live word of the week learn a quirky or interesting german word each week .
word of the week photos see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
participation .
power .
politics : tomorrow 's politicians -pipe- pulse -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
pulse reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : germany 's youth gear up for the future part one : getting down to basics part four : first-time voters part three : the world 's youngest politician pulse -pipe- 13.05.2009 participation .
power .
politics : tomorrow 's politicians großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : peacefully protesting is just one way that people get politically active in germany but it 's not the only way find out more about germany 's next generation of politicians .
they 're involved in the youth branches of political groups and are trying to make a difference . politics in your own country can be confusing at the best of times .
but trying to understand the politics of a foreign country , like germany , can be tough .
what and who is the chancellor ?
what are the different parties , and what do they stand for ?
do young germans even care about politics ? this four-part series breaks it all down and finds answers to these questions - just as germany 's so-called " super election year " begins .
local , state , presidential , and european elections will be topped off by the big federal election in september .
part two : tomorrow 's politicians profiles different youth branches of political groups and four politicians - all in their mid 20s - who aren ’ t waiting around for someone else to create change . catherine graue send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic click to listen to part two : tomorrow 's politicians dw-tv europe live talking germany - the german way of life we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live concert hour schwetzingen festival -lrb- 1 -rrb- listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
radio feature soundscape 100 from candy pop to r ' n ' b , indie rock to disco punk , we bring you the best from the german charts .
word of the week learn a quirky or interesting german word each week .
word of the week photos see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
view from my window © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
french lawmakers to pull the plug on internet pirates -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 11.10.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de internet -pipe- 13.05.2009 french lawmakers to pull the plug on internet pirates großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : sarkozy championed the new legislation france has passed a bill that will let authorities track illegal downloading over the internet and disconnect repeat offenders .
opponents are critical of the law , arguing that access to the web is a fundamental right . the french senate on wednesday overwhelmingly voted into law a controversial measure that will cut off internet access to people who repeatedly download copyrighted music , films or video games without paying .
the vote , which had already passed the lower house by a narrow margin on tuesday , represents a success for president nicolas sarkozy , who championed the groundbreaking law .
the opposition socialists alienated many of their traditional supporters in the arts world by fighting the move .
the legislation aims to protect the revenues of record and film companies and recording artists .
after two warnings pirates will be cut off the tough new laws would punish music download pirates by shutting off their internet access for up to a year .
under the terms of the bill , internet pirates will receive two warnings , but their internet connection will be cut after the third offence .
during the time they are disconnected , they will have to continue paying their internet provider .
the music and film industries in france and abroad have shown wide support for the bill , but consumer groups and the socialist opposition have warned it would be difficult to implement .
opponents have criticized the penalties , and say access to the internet should be a fundamental right .
consumer groups said they feared intrusive monitoring of online activity and warn that innocent users may be unfairly punished if hackers use their accounts to download files .
the new law 's introduction onto the statute books is likely to be delayed by at least a month .
opponents have promised to challenge the legislation in france 's top court . ch / ncy / afp / reuters send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de major german online companies agree to block child porn websites german internet providers have grudgingly agreed to block websites containing child pornography .
critics say their deal with the government wo n't make much of a difference .
-lrb- 17.04.2009 -rrb- german artists defend copyright in google era google might reign as the unchallenged king of german search engines , but a lawsuit over the company 's popular image search feature brings into question the rights of german artists in the internet age .
-lrb- 21.10.2008 -rrb- new data law could benefit music pirates germany 's music industry fears that a new telephone data law could become a carte blanche for internet users , who download tunes illegally .
until now , they 've traced music pirates with the help of phone records .
-lrb- 30.03.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live concert hour listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
quo vadis bosnia ?
betancourt book sparks controversy in france technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
french lawmakers to pull the plug on internet pirates -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de internet -pipe- 13.05.2009 french lawmakers to pull the plug on internet pirates großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : sarkozy championed the new legislation france has passed a bill that will let authorities track illegal downloading over the internet and disconnect repeat offenders .
opponents are critical of the law , arguing that access to the web is a fundamental right . the french senate on wednesday overwhelmingly voted into law a controversial measure that will cut off internet access to people who repeatedly download copyrighted music , films or video games without paying .
the vote , which had already passed the lower house by a narrow margin on tuesday , represents a success for president nicolas sarkozy , who championed the groundbreaking law .
the opposition socialists alienated many of their traditional supporters in the arts world by fighting the move .
the legislation aims to protect the revenues of record and film companies and recording artists .
after two warnings pirates will be cut off the tough new laws would punish music download pirates by shutting off their internet access for up to a year .
under the terms of the bill , internet pirates will receive two warnings , but their internet connection will be cut after the third offence .
during the time they are disconnected , they will have to continue paying their internet provider .
the music and film industries in france and abroad have shown wide support for the bill , but consumer groups and the socialist opposition have warned it would be difficult to implement .
opponents have criticized the penalties , and say access to the internet should be a fundamental right .
consumer groups said they feared intrusive monitoring of online activity and warn that innocent users may be unfairly punished if hackers use their accounts to download files .
the new law 's introduction onto the statute books is likely to be delayed by at least a month .
opponents have promised to challenge the legislation in france 's top court . ch / ncy / afp / reuters send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de major german online companies agree to block child porn websites german internet providers have grudgingly agreed to block websites containing child pornography .
critics say their deal with the government wo n't make much of a difference .
-lrb- 17.04.2009 -rrb- german artists defend copyright in google era google might reign as the unchallenged king of german search engines , but a lawsuit over the company 's popular image search feature brings into question the rights of german artists in the internet age .
-lrb- 21.10.2008 -rrb- new data law could benefit music pirates germany 's music industry fears that a new telephone data law could become a carte blanche for internet users , who download tunes illegally .
until now , they 've traced music pirates with the help of phone records .
-lrb- 30.03.2008 -rrb- radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
reader response change the guard ?
strauss-kahn 's fall prompts reader skepticism about european stewardship of the imf .
health uk practioners are taking the eu to court over a ban on chinese herbal medicines .
listen to the audio poland poles protest the visit by erika steinbach , representative of the germans expelled from poland .
listen to the audio postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
french burqa ban fits secular ideals is berlusconi giving italy a bad name ?
a dubious record for belgium inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
french lawmakers to pull the plug on internet pirates -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 05.12.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de internet -pipe- 13.05.2009 french lawmakers to pull the plug on internet pirates großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : sarkozy championed the new legislation france has passed a bill that will let authorities track illegal downloading over the internet and disconnect repeat offenders .
opponents are critical of the law , arguing that access to the web is a fundamental right . the french senate on wednesday overwhelmingly voted into law a controversial measure that will cut off internet access to people who repeatedly download copyrighted music , films or video games without paying .
the vote , which had already passed the lower house by a narrow margin on tuesday , represents a success for president nicolas sarkozy , who championed the groundbreaking law .
the opposition socialists alienated many of their traditional supporters in the arts world by fighting the move .
the legislation aims to protect the revenues of record and film companies and recording artists .
after two warnings pirates will be cut off the tough new laws would punish music download pirates by shutting off their internet access for up to a year .
under the terms of the bill , internet pirates will receive two warnings , but their internet connection will be cut after the third offence .
during the time they are disconnected , they will have to continue paying their internet provider .
the music and film industries in france and abroad have shown wide support for the bill , but consumer groups and the socialist opposition have warned it would be difficult to implement .
opponents have criticized the penalties , and say access to the internet should be a fundamental right .
consumer groups said they feared intrusive monitoring of online activity and warn that innocent users may be unfairly punished if hackers use their accounts to download files .
the new law 's introduction onto the statute books is likely to be delayed by at least a month .
opponents have promised to challenge the legislation in france 's top court . ch / ncy / afp / reuters send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de major german online companies agree to block child porn websites german internet providers have grudgingly agreed to block websites containing child pornography .
critics say their deal with the government wo n't make much of a difference .
-lrb- 17.04.2009 -rrb- german artists defend copyright in google era google might reign as the unchallenged king of german search engines , but a lawsuit over the company 's popular image search feature brings into question the rights of german artists in the internet age .
-lrb- 21.10.2008 -rrb- new data law could benefit music pirates germany 's music industry fears that a new telephone data law could become a carte blanche for internet users , who download tunes illegally .
until now , they 've traced music pirates with the help of phone records .
-lrb- 30.03.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live concert hour listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
french lawmakers to pull the plug on internet pirates -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 09.09.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de internet -pipe- 13.05.2009 french lawmakers to pull the plug on internet pirates großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : sarkozy championed the new legislation france has passed a bill that will let authorities track illegal downloading over the internet and disconnect repeat offenders .
opponents are critical of the law , arguing that access to the web is a fundamental right . the french senate on wednesday overwhelmingly voted into law a controversial measure that will cut off internet access to people who repeatedly download copyrighted music , films or video games without paying .
the vote , which had already passed the lower house by a narrow margin on tuesday , represents a success for president nicolas sarkozy , who championed the groundbreaking law .
the opposition socialists alienated many of their traditional supporters in the arts world by fighting the move .
the legislation aims to protect the revenues of record and film companies and recording artists .
after two warnings pirates will be cut off the tough new laws would punish music download pirates by shutting off their internet access for up to a year .
under the terms of the bill , internet pirates will receive two warnings , but their internet connection will be cut after the third offence .
during the time they are disconnected , they will have to continue paying their internet provider .
the music and film industries in france and abroad have shown wide support for the bill , but consumer groups and the socialist opposition have warned it would be difficult to implement .
opponents have criticized the penalties , and say access to the internet should be a fundamental right .
consumer groups said they feared intrusive monitoring of online activity and warn that innocent users may be unfairly punished if hackers use their accounts to download files .
the new law 's introduction onto the statute books is likely to be delayed by at least a month .
opponents have promised to challenge the legislation in france 's top court . ch / ncy / afp / reuters send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de major german online companies agree to block child porn websites german internet providers have grudgingly agreed to block websites containing child pornography .
critics say their deal with the government wo n't make much of a difference .
-lrb- 17.04.2009 -rrb- german artists defend copyright in google era google might reign as the unchallenged king of german search engines , but a lawsuit over the company 's popular image search feature brings into question the rights of german artists in the internet age .
-lrb- 21.10.2008 -rrb- new data law could benefit music pirates germany 's music industry fears that a new telephone data law could become a carte blanche for internet users , who download tunes illegally .
until now , they 've traced music pirates with the help of phone records .
-lrb- 30.03.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live politics russian prime minister vladimir putin appears determined to get back at the helm again as president .
listen to the report postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
it simply is n't cricket are the gay games necessary ?
love parade - the end of an era oracle paul takes the plunge venturing into mafia turf europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
participation .
power .
politics : tomorrow 's politicians -pipe- pulse -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 29.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
pulse reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : germany 's youth gear up for the future part one : getting down to basics part four : first-time voters part three : the world 's youngest politician pulse -pipe- 13.05.2009 participation .
power .
politics : tomorrow 's politicians großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : peacefully protesting is just one way that people get politically active in germany but it 's not the only way find out more about germany 's next generation of politicians .
they 're involved in the youth branches of political groups and are trying to make a difference . politics in your own country can be confusing at the best of times .
but trying to understand the politics of a foreign country , like germany , can be tough .
what and who is the chancellor ?
what are the different parties , and what do they stand for ?
do young germans even care about politics ? this four-part series breaks it all down and finds answers to these questions - just as germany 's so-called " super election year " begins .
local , state , presidential , and european elections will be topped off by the big federal election in september .
part two : tomorrow 's politicians profiles different youth branches of political groups and four politicians - all in their mid 20s - who aren ’ t waiting around for someone else to create change . catherine graue send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic click to listen to part two : tomorrow 's politicians dw-tv europe live euromaxx - lifestyle europe we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
radio feature soundscape 100 from candy pop to r ' n ' b , indie rock to disco punk , we bring you the best from the german charts .
word of the week learn a quirky or interesting german word each week .
word of the week photos see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
view from my window © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
french lawmakers to pull the plug on internet pirates -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 30.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de internet -pipe- 13.05.2009 french lawmakers to pull the plug on internet pirates großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : sarkozy championed the new legislation france has passed a bill that will let authorities track illegal downloading over the internet and disconnect repeat offenders .
opponents are critical of the law , arguing that access to the web is a fundamental right . the french senate on wednesday overwhelmingly voted into law a controversial measure that will cut off internet access to people who repeatedly download copyrighted music , films or video games without paying .
the vote , which had already passed the lower house by a narrow margin on tuesday , represents a success for president nicolas sarkozy , who championed the groundbreaking law .
the opposition socialists alienated many of their traditional supporters in the arts world by fighting the move .
the legislation aims to protect the revenues of record and film companies and recording artists .
after two warnings pirates will be cut off the tough new laws would punish music download pirates by shutting off their internet access for up to a year .
under the terms of the bill , internet pirates will receive two warnings , but their internet connection will be cut after the third offence .
during the time they are disconnected , they will have to continue paying their internet provider .
the music and film industries in france and abroad have shown wide support for the bill , but consumer groups and the socialist opposition have warned it would be difficult to implement .
opponents have criticized the penalties , and say access to the internet should be a fundamental right .
consumer groups said they feared intrusive monitoring of online activity and warn that innocent users may be unfairly punished if hackers use their accounts to download files .
the new law 's introduction onto the statute books is likely to be delayed by at least a month .
opponents have promised to challenge the legislation in france 's top court . ch / ncy / afp / reuters send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de major german online companies agree to block child porn websites german internet providers have grudgingly agreed to block websites containing child pornography .
critics say their deal with the government wo n't make much of a difference .
-lrb- 17.04.2009 -rrb- german artists defend copyright in google era google might reign as the unchallenged king of german search engines , but a lawsuit over the company 's popular image search feature brings into question the rights of german artists in the internet age .
-lrb- 21.10.2008 -rrb- new data law could benefit music pirates germany 's music industry fears that a new telephone data law could become a carte blanche for internet users , who download tunes illegally .
until now , they 've traced music pirates with the help of phone records .
-lrb- 30.03.2008 -rrb- radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit tagesthema we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
economics as the euro faces insecurity , the swiss franc is growing stronger - but not all swiss are happy .
watch the video soccer turkish soccer officials meet in geneva after a match-fixing scandal gets dozens arrested .
listen to the audio london 2012 london threw a party to celebrate one year before the summer olympics 2012 .
listen to the report eastern europe four years after romania joined the eu , its capital city bucharest is enjoying a renaissance .
watch the video inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
the rhino mafia where to serve ?
soliders with dual citizenship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
french lawmakers to pull the plug on internet pirates -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 28.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de internet -pipe- 13.05.2009 french lawmakers to pull the plug on internet pirates großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : sarkozy championed the new legislation france has passed a bill that will let authorities track illegal downloading over the internet and disconnect repeat offenders .
opponents are critical of the law , arguing that access to the web is a fundamental right . the french senate on wednesday overwhelmingly voted into law a controversial measure that will cut off internet access to people who repeatedly download copyrighted music , films or video games without paying .
the vote , which had already passed the lower house by a narrow margin on tuesday , represents a success for president nicolas sarkozy , who championed the groundbreaking law .
the opposition socialists alienated many of their traditional supporters in the arts world by fighting the move .
the legislation aims to protect the revenues of record and film companies and recording artists .
after two warnings pirates will be cut off the tough new laws would punish music download pirates by shutting off their internet access for up to a year .
under the terms of the bill , internet pirates will receive two warnings , but their internet connection will be cut after the third offence .
during the time they are disconnected , they will have to continue paying their internet provider .
the music and film industries in france and abroad have shown wide support for the bill , but consumer groups and the socialist opposition have warned it would be difficult to implement .
opponents have criticized the penalties , and say access to the internet should be a fundamental right .
consumer groups said they feared intrusive monitoring of online activity and warn that innocent users may be unfairly punished if hackers use their accounts to download files .
the new law 's introduction onto the statute books is likely to be delayed by at least a month .
opponents have promised to challenge the legislation in france 's top court . ch / ncy / afp / reuters send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de major german online companies agree to block child porn websites german internet providers have grudgingly agreed to block websites containing child pornography .
critics say their deal with the government wo n't make much of a difference .
-lrb- 17.04.2009 -rrb- german artists defend copyright in google era google might reign as the unchallenged king of german search engines , but a lawsuit over the company 's popular image search feature brings into question the rights of german artists in the internet age .
-lrb- 21.10.2008 -rrb- new data law could benefit music pirates germany 's music industry fears that a new telephone data law could become a carte blanche for internet users , who download tunes illegally .
until now , they 've traced music pirates with the help of phone records .
-lrb- 30.03.2008 -rrb- radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit tagesthema we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inspired minds listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
art the czech state rushes artwork out of a german museum in light of a potential legal issue .
watch the video poland a politician 's comment about the polish region of silesia stirs up an old debate about identity .
watch the video reader response austerity avoidance as anti-austerity riots continue in debt-stricken greece , readers consider the country 's options .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany agrees on bad bank scheme -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 28.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de banking -pipe- 13.05.2009 germany agrees on bad bank scheme großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : steinbrueck wants to reassure voters they wo n't wear the cost of the bail-out the german cabinet has agreed on a plan to clean up toxic assets from bank balance sheets .
in the run-up to the election , the issue has become highly politically charged . the scheme , which forms a key element of berlin 's bid to turn europe 's biggest economy around , would allow banks to park their toxic assets for up to 20 years , in specially created institutions .
banks would receive government backed bonds in return .
finance minister peer steinbrueck said the banks would still be held responsible for the toxic assets and , in the long run , they would bear the cost of transferring and holding the assets .
just five months out from a national election , the issue has proved politically prickly .
politicians are torn between the pressing need to revive germany 's foundering banking sector and burdening taxpayers with a huge bank bailout .
berlin hopes that once the toxic holdings have been removed from banks ' balance sheets , they will begin lending to each other and to businesses and consumers again .
that is meant to jolt the german economy back to life .
economic forecasters predict 6 percent shrinkage in europe 's biggest economy in 2009 . ch / ncy / afp / dpa send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german government steps in to clean up banks ' toxic assets the german government has drawn up a draft plan to clean up toxic assets from banks ' balance sheets , a key part of berlin 's bid to turn around europe 's biggest economy .
-lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- koehler blasts banks for keeping quiet over financial crisis in run up to presidential race , german president horst koehler has hit out at bankers ' greed , but is optimistic that the dark cloud of global financial crisis will have a silver lining .
-lrb- 02.05.2009 -rrb- leaked list reveals german banks have 816 billion euros in toxic assets a german newspaper has published a leaked list from the bafin financial oversight group that shows german banks are weighed down under 816 billion euros in toxic assets .
-lrb- 25.04.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic sweden 's bad bank scheme what is a bad bank ? radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx - lifestyle europe we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live living planet gunning for forests listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive. tourism germany 's north sea coast boasts some of the longest and most attractive beaches in europe .
watch the video dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany agrees on bad bank scheme -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de banking -pipe- 13.05.2009 germany agrees on bad bank scheme großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : steinbrueck wants to reassure voters they wo n't wear the cost of the bail-out the german cabinet has agreed on a plan to clean up toxic assets from bank balance sheets .
in the run-up to the election , the issue has become highly politically charged . the scheme , which forms a key element of berlin 's bid to turn europe 's biggest economy around , would allow banks to park their toxic assets for up to 20 years , in specially created institutions .
banks would receive government backed bonds in return .
finance minister peer steinbrueck said the banks would still be held responsible for the toxic assets and , in the long run , they would bear the cost of transferring and holding the assets .
just five months out from a national election , the issue has proved politically prickly .
politicians are torn between the pressing need to revive germany 's foundering banking sector and burdening taxpayers with a huge bank bailout .
berlin hopes that once the toxic holdings have been removed from banks ' balance sheets , they will begin lending to each other and to businesses and consumers again .
that is meant to jolt the german economy back to life .
economic forecasters predict 6 percent shrinkage in europe 's biggest economy in 2009 . ch / ncy / afp / dpa send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german government steps in to clean up banks ' toxic assets the german government has drawn up a draft plan to clean up toxic assets from banks ' balance sheets , a key part of berlin 's bid to turn around europe 's biggest economy .
-lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- koehler blasts banks for keeping quiet over financial crisis in run up to presidential race , german president horst koehler has hit out at bankers ' greed , but is optimistic that the dark cloud of global financial crisis will have a silver lining .
-lrb- 02.05.2009 -rrb- leaked list reveals german banks have 816 billion euros in toxic assets a german newspaper has published a leaked list from the bafin financial oversight group that shows german banks are weighed down under 816 billion euros in toxic assets .
-lrb- 25.04.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic sweden 's bad bank scheme what is a bad bank ? radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live arts.21 - the cultural magazine we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live in-box -lsb- in-box -rsb- feedback from around the world listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
art german photographer lala aufsberg 's work is a fascinating historical record of the 20th century .
watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany agrees on bad bank scheme -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 10.10.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de banking -pipe- 13.05.2009 germany agrees on bad bank scheme großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : steinbrueck wants to reassure voters they wo n't wear the cost of the bail-out the german cabinet has agreed on a plan to clean up toxic assets from bank balance sheets .
in the run-up to the election , the issue has become highly politically charged . the scheme , which forms a key element of berlin 's bid to turn europe 's biggest economy around , would allow banks to park their toxic assets for up to 20 years , in specially created institutions .
banks would receive government backed bonds in return .
finance minister peer steinbrueck said the banks would still be held responsible for the toxic assets and , in the long run , they would bear the cost of transferring and holding the assets .
just five months out from a national election , the issue has proved politically prickly .
politicians are torn between the pressing need to revive germany 's foundering banking sector and burdening taxpayers with a huge bank bailout .
berlin hopes that once the toxic holdings have been removed from banks ' balance sheets , they will begin lending to each other and to businesses and consumers again .
that is meant to jolt the german economy back to life .
economic forecasters predict 6 percent shrinkage in europe 's biggest economy in 2009 . ch / ncy / afp / dpa send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german government steps in to clean up banks ' toxic assets the german government has drawn up a draft plan to clean up toxic assets from banks ' balance sheets , a key part of berlin 's bid to turn around europe 's biggest economy .
-lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- koehler blasts banks for keeping quiet over financial crisis in run up to presidential race , german president horst koehler has hit out at bankers ' greed , but is optimistic that the dark cloud of global financial crisis will have a silver lining .
-lrb- 02.05.2009 -rrb- leaked list reveals german banks have 816 billion euros in toxic assets a german newspaper has published a leaked list from the bafin financial oversight group that shows german banks are weighed down under 816 billion euros in toxic assets .
-lrb- 25.04.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic sweden 's bad bank scheme what is a bad bank ?
feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live discover germany we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inside europe listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany agrees on bad bank scheme -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 04.12.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de banking -pipe- 13.05.2009 germany agrees on bad bank scheme großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : steinbrueck wants to reassure voters they wo n't wear the cost of the bail-out the german cabinet has agreed on a plan to clean up toxic assets from bank balance sheets .
in the run-up to the election , the issue has become highly politically charged . the scheme , which forms a key element of berlin 's bid to turn europe 's biggest economy around , would allow banks to park their toxic assets for up to 20 years , in specially created institutions .
banks would receive government backed bonds in return .
finance minister peer steinbrueck said the banks would still be held responsible for the toxic assets and , in the long run , they would bear the cost of transferring and holding the assets .
just five months out from a national election , the issue has proved politically prickly .
politicians are torn between the pressing need to revive germany 's foundering banking sector and burdening taxpayers with a huge bank bailout .
berlin hopes that once the toxic holdings have been removed from banks ' balance sheets , they will begin lending to each other and to businesses and consumers again .
that is meant to jolt the german economy back to life .
economic forecasters predict 6 percent shrinkage in europe 's biggest economy in 2009 . ch / ncy / afp / dpa send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german government steps in to clean up banks ' toxic assets the german government has drawn up a draft plan to clean up toxic assets from banks ' balance sheets , a key part of berlin 's bid to turn around europe 's biggest economy .
-lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- koehler blasts banks for keeping quiet over financial crisis in run up to presidential race , german president horst koehler has hit out at bankers ' greed , but is optimistic that the dark cloud of global financial crisis will have a silver lining .
-lrb- 02.05.2009 -rrb- leaked list reveals german banks have 816 billion euros in toxic assets a german newspaper has published a leaked list from the bafin financial oversight group that shows german banks are weighed down under 816 billion euros in toxic assets .
-lrb- 25.04.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic sweden 's bad bank scheme what is a bad bank ?
feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
travel passau is called the three river city , but it is just as famous for its baroque splendor .
passau - baroque facades and vibrant arts watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
sobibor survivor : demjanjuk trial will go down in history -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de world war ii -pipe- 13.05.2009 sobibor survivor : demjanjuk trial will go down in history großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some 250,000 jews , gypsies and political prisoners were murdered in sobibor 's gas chambers deutsche welle spoke with thomas blatt , one of few to escape from the nazi-run sobibor extermination camp .
he says he does n't care whether john demjanjuk is jailed for working at the camp , just that he tells the truth . thomas blatt was one of the few to survive the sobibor extermination camp in nazi-occupied poland during world war ii .
the 82-year-old is now a key witness in the munich trial of john demjanjuk , who is alleged to have been a guard at sobibor .
deutsche welle : why did you decide to come to germany for this trial ?
thomas blatt : because when i escaped from sobibor , i promised myself that if i survived , i will do everything to tell the story of sobibor .
and that 's what i 'm doing .
and i know that demjanjuk knows a lot , because demjanjuk was in the middle of the holocaust .
and he denies that it is him , that he was not a guard at sobibor , but he was .
i do n't care if demjanjuk is in jail or not .
i do care that he should tell the truth .
and the truth is , that he was a guard at sobibor .
sobibor was not a simple concentration camp .
sobibor was an extermination camp .
at sobibor the guards were simple murderers .
in a concentration camp a guard was a guard , … responsible -lsb- for preventing -rsb- people from running away .
but at sobibor they were simple murderers .
you said that among the guards at sobibor some were sadistic .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : demjanjuk 's wartime identification card is a major piece of evidence against him i said that they were sadistic and that some guards escaped from sobibor .
but demjanjuk did not escape .
he was there all the time with the nazis .
i do n't say that i -lsb- saw -rsb- him for sure .
-lsb- the guards -rsb- were very sadistic .
and we were more afraid of the guards than we were of the germans .
i 'm sure i know that he was a guard .
it is my duty to tell .
he should tell what sobibor was for .
what will be your reaction if there is not enough evidence to find mr. demjanjuk guilty ?
i believe that he will tell the truth , the way it was in sobibor .
and this will be part of history .
this will be -lsb- something -rsb- for the new generation to learn .
because what he has seen , few people have seen .
i strongly believe he will tell the truth .
and later demjanjuk could go free .
for me his testimony is very important , and that 's why i am in munich following demjanjuk 's story .
i am sorry in a way for demjanjuk .
he 's an old man , 89 years old .
he 's sick , he has a family .
so i 'm sorry in a way .
and i think that many people think the same way : he 's an old man , he 's suffered so much .
but i also see the other side of demjanjuk .
i see him as a terrible sadist , a murderer .
he did n't run away from his work .
interview : michael lawton editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de suspected nazi prison camp guard deported to germany the us has deported an alleged former nazi prison camp guard to germany .
jewish leaders hailed john demjanjuk 's deportation , saying they hoped it was n't too late for the 89-year-old to be brought to justice .
-lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- opinion : no statute of limitations on horrors of the holocaust after decades of judicial wrangling , the alleged nazi criminal john demjanjuk is to stand trial in germany .
on tuesday he was flown to munich and brought to a prison awaiting trial .
cornelia rabitz has this commentary : -lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- us seeks to clear path for demjanjuk deportation , again the us government has sought to clear the way to deport alleged former death camp guard john demjanjuk , just days after a us court postponed his deportation to wait for proof that he is fit to travel to germany .
-lrb- 21.04.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic michael lawton talks to raphael gross of the fritz bauer institute for holocaust studies about john demjanjuk nazi war crimes suspect john demjanjuk deported to germany -lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
transatlantic relations obama in europe two years after president obama 's first european visit , the transatlantic ties remain strong .
in depth al qaeda 's future deutsche welle takes a closer look at osama bin laden and the terrorist network he spearheaded .
podcast series roxy cruz from east la found a passion for the environment while working with farmers in nepal .
listen to the report subscribe to the series on itunes past episodes international conference media representatives around the world gather in bonn to discuss human rights .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany agrees on bad bank scheme -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 08.09.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de banking -pipe- 13.05.2009 germany agrees on bad bank scheme großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : steinbrueck wants to reassure voters they wo n't wear the cost of the bail-out the german cabinet has agreed on a plan to clean up toxic assets from bank balance sheets .
in the run-up to the election , the issue has become highly politically charged . the scheme , which forms a key element of berlin 's bid to turn europe 's biggest economy around , would allow banks to park their toxic assets for up to 20 years , in specially created institutions .
banks would receive government backed bonds in return .
finance minister peer steinbrueck said the banks would still be held responsible for the toxic assets and , in the long run , they would bear the cost of transferring and holding the assets .
just five months out from a national election , the issue has proved politically prickly .
politicians are torn between the pressing need to revive germany 's foundering banking sector and burdening taxpayers with a huge bank bailout .
berlin hopes that once the toxic holdings have been removed from banks ' balance sheets , they will begin lending to each other and to businesses and consumers again .
that is meant to jolt the german economy back to life .
economic forecasters predict 6 percent shrinkage in europe 's biggest economy in 2009 . ch / ncy / afp / dpa send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german government steps in to clean up banks ' toxic assets the german government has drawn up a draft plan to clean up toxic assets from banks ' balance sheets , a key part of berlin 's bid to turn around europe 's biggest economy .
-lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- koehler blasts banks for keeping quiet over financial crisis in run up to presidential race , german president horst koehler has hit out at bankers ' greed , but is optimistic that the dark cloud of global financial crisis will have a silver lining .
-lrb- 02.05.2009 -rrb- leaked list reveals german banks have 816 billion euros in toxic assets a german newspaper has published a leaked list from the bafin financial oversight group that shows german banks are weighed down under 816 billion euros in toxic assets .
-lrb- 25.04.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic sweden 's bad bank scheme what is a bad bank ?
feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live projekt zukunft we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live pulse listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
pope visits west bank , calls for palestinian statehood -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 11.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de religion -pipe- 13.05.2009 pope visits west bank , calls for palestinian statehood großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : palestinians gave an enthusiastic welcome to pope benedict during a visit to bethlehem , pope benedict xvi voiced support for palestinian aspirations of an independent homeland and said he hoped the wall that israel has erected in and around the west bank would come down . speaking in bethlehem after holding a mass in manger square , the pope pressed calls to remove the wall and watch towers that seal bethlehem off from jerusalem .
" towering over us ... is a stark reminder of the stalemate that relations between israelis and palestinians seem to have reached - the wall , " the pope said as he stood in the shadow of israel 's separation wall in the aida refugee camp , which houses refugees from israel 's creation in 1948 .
the pope said it 's " understandable that palestinians feel frustrated , " adding that " their legitimate aspirations for permanent homes , for an independent palestinian state , remain unfulfilled . "
the camp is home to around 5,000 refugees .
bildunterschrift : palestinian children at the aida refugee camp next to a poster of the pope " i have seen , ... overshadowing much of bethlehem , the wall that intrudes into your territories , separating neighbors and dividing families , " the pope said in the town believed to be the birthplace of jesus christ .
" although walls can be easily built , we all know that they do not last forever .
they can be taken down . "
pope lends support to palestinian statehood earlier , thousands greeted the pope 's black limousine as he made his way to manger square where he said mass for about 5,000 people next to the church of the nativity that marks the spot where christians believe jesus was born to mary in a stable .
one of the aims of the pope 's visit is to attempt to preserve a shrinking christian presence in the middle east .
the christian population of bethlehem has decreased dramatically in recent years through emigration . thousands of christians left the town after a palestinian uprising in 2000 and was met by an israeli security clampdown and the start of construction of the barrier .
the pope acknowledged israel 's security concerns as well as palestinian suffering , and urged people not to " resort to acts of violence or terrorism . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : pope benedict xvi outside of the church of the nativity in bethlehem the pope said his heart went out to those caught up in the conflict in gaza , adding that he was praying for an end to the israeli embargo of the gaza strip .
earlier , the pontiff told palestinian president mahmoud abbas that he backed the creation of a palestinian state .
" the holy see supports the right of your people to a sovereign palestinian homeland in the land of your forefathers , secure and at peace with your neighbors , within internationally recognized borders , " he said .
the pope 's comments are the vatican 's strongest and most symbolic public backing yet for an independent palestinian state .
the two-state solution is supported by abbas , arab nations and western powers .
but the new israeli prime minister , benjamin netanyahu , has declined so far to endorse it .
visit dogged by controversy the german-born pope 's week-long trip to the middle east , his first visit to the region , has not been without controversy .
on tuesday , a row erupted over the pope 's membership as a teenager of the hitler youth , as he paid a historic visit to holy sites in jerusalem .
vatican spokesman , federico lombardi , said the pontiff had " never , never , never " belonged to the organization , but later changed his version , saying that he had been a member but his membership was compulsory .
in his own 1997 memoirs , pope benedict had said he had been registered with the hitler youth while he was at a seminary .
the latest row comes on the heels of comments by some israeli leaders complaining that the pope did not go far enough in offering emotion in remarks he made on monday at the yad vashem memorial to the jewish dead of the holocaust . sp , pfd reuters / ap / dpa send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de pope continues balancing act on tour of holy sites in jerusalem pope benedict xvi became the first pope to enter a politically-charged shrine in jerusalem sacred to jews and muslims .
the pope continues to face criticism on the second day of a week-long visit to the region .
-lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- pope continues middle east tour as criticism of yad vashem speech grows pope benedict xvi used a service at jerusalem 's yad vashem memorial to express " deep compassion " for the victims of the holocaust .
but jewish leaders in germany and israel criticized the pope for not going far enough .
-lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- pope seeks to salve holocaust wounds pope benedict xvi is on his first trip to israel .
he has used a speech to seek to heal the wounds created by , among other things , his reinstatement of a holocaust-denying bishop .
-lrb- 11.05.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic pope benedict calls israel 's security barrier in the west bank " tragic " feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
berlin unveils plan to help rid banks of toxic assets -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de economy -pipe- 13.05.2009 berlin unveils plan to help rid banks of toxic assets großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : banks can now move to clean up their balance sheets the german cabinet has approved a draft law to help rid lenders of an estimated 200 billion euros -lrb- $ 272 billion -rrb- in worthless assets .
banks can swap the assets against guaranteed state loans for up to 20 years . the aim of the " bad bank " plan is to clean up lenders ' balance sheets and restore confidence in the financial sector .
the bill , drafted by finance minister peer steinbrueck , would enable banks to receive state guaranteed loans on commercial terms , in exchange for offloading their troubled assets .
through the government 's financial market stabilization fund , soffin , lenders would be able to swap toxic assets for guaranteed state loans worth 90 percent of the original value of the assets .
lenders would pay an annual fee and be able to " freeze " the assets until better times come along . after a maximum of 20 years , they would have to pay back any losses to the government .
some believe the german banks hold more than 200 billion euros of troubled assets .
" in the interests of the real economy , we are buying time so that the so-called toxic assets can be cleared up , " explained chancellor angela merkel 's chief of staff , thomas de maiziere .
what 's worthless today , may not be tomorrow bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : german finance minister peer steinbrueck says taxpayers will not foot the bill " it 's not clear how toxic these assets really are , " said finance expert , otto salms of the liberal free democrats -lrb- fdp -rrb- .
" some of these assets may well be worth more again once the crisis ends and the economy recovers .
if that 's the case , the banks may end up having to write off much less at a later date than they would if they were forced to liquidate these assets today . "
economic recovery and financial liquidity go hand in hand .
one of the factors that 's been driving the crisis around the world is that banks have stopped lending to each other because they have n't been able to assess the size of the financial black holes on each other 's balance sheets .
berlin hopes that by removing bad holdings from balance sheets banks will start lending to each other again , as well as to businesses and consumers .
this in turn would help kick-start the german economy , the biggest in europe , which is expected to shrink by six percent this year .
shareholders , not taxpayers , to bear the burden under the plan , which comes five months before a general election , any liabilities at the end of maturity would accrue to shareholders , and not to the taxpayer .
" it 's only right that whoever made profits through taking high risks over the years , must also be prepared to take the losses , " explained financial expert johannes kahrs , of the social democrats -lrb- spd -rrb- , the coalition partners of chancellor angela merkel 's christian democrats -lrb- cdu -rrb- . "
i think that 's reasonable , it 's a basic economic principle . "
some critics say the scheme is flawed because it is voluntary .
banks are not to be forced to dispose of toxic assets through the soffin national rescue program .
the government insists that " good banks " are interesting for investors and a cleaned up , reliable balance sheet will attract capital .
the draft legislation still has to go before both the lower and upper houses of parliament , the bundestag und bundesrat . wl / pfd / afp / ard send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de financial watchdog chief calls for " bad bank " for toxic assets the head of a watchdog committee of germany 's bank stabilization fund has called for the creation of a " bad bank " that could buy up toxic assets and unblock interbank lending .
-lrb- 11.01.2009 -rrb- us mortgage crisis hits german banks the battered subprime mortgage market in the united states is increasingly impacting the us economy .
now , losses from risky us home loans to borrowers with poor credit histories have swept across the atlantic .
-lrb- 31.07.2007 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic the german cabinet backs plan to relieve the country 's banks of their toxic assets radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live kino we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
culture west german photographer thomas hoepker documented life abroad - in east germany - in the 1970s .
watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
berlin unveils plan to help rid banks of toxic assets -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 05.10.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de economy -pipe- 13.05.2009 berlin unveils plan to help rid banks of toxic assets großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : banks can now move to clean up their balance sheets the german cabinet has approved a draft law to help rid lenders of an estimated 200 billion euros -lrb- $ 272 billion -rrb- in worthless assets .
banks can swap the assets against guaranteed state loans for up to 20 years . the aim of the " bad bank " plan is to clean up lenders ' balance sheets and restore confidence in the financial sector .
the bill , drafted by finance minister peer steinbrueck , would enable banks to receive state guaranteed loans on commercial terms , in exchange for offloading their troubled assets .
through the government 's financial market stabilization fund , soffin , lenders would be able to swap toxic assets for guaranteed state loans worth 90 percent of the original value of the assets .
lenders would pay an annual fee and be able to " freeze " the assets until better times come along . after a maximum of 20 years , they would have to pay back any losses to the government .
some believe the german banks hold more than 200 billion euros of troubled assets .
" in the interests of the real economy , we are buying time so that the so-called toxic assets can be cleared up , " explained chancellor angela merkel 's chief of staff , thomas de maiziere .
what 's worthless today , may not be tomorrow bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : german finance minister peer steinbrueck says taxpayers will not foot the bill " it 's not clear how toxic these assets really are , " said finance expert , otto salms of the liberal free democrats -lrb- fdp -rrb- .
" some of these assets may well be worth more again once the crisis ends and the economy recovers .
if that 's the case , the banks may end up having to write off much less at a later date than they would if they were forced to liquidate these assets today . "
economic recovery and financial liquidity go hand in hand .
one of the factors that 's been driving the crisis around the world is that banks have stopped lending to each other because they have n't been able to assess the size of the financial black holes on each other 's balance sheets .
berlin hopes that by removing bad holdings from balance sheets banks will start lending to each other again , as well as to businesses and consumers .
this in turn would help kick-start the german economy , the biggest in europe , which is expected to shrink by six percent this year .
shareholders , not taxpayers , to bear the burden under the plan , which comes five months before a general election , any liabilities at the end of maturity would accrue to shareholders , and not to the taxpayer .
" it 's only right that whoever made profits through taking high risks over the years , must also be prepared to take the losses , " explained financial expert johannes kahrs , of the social democrats -lrb- spd -rrb- , the coalition partners of chancellor angela merkel 's christian democrats -lrb- cdu -rrb- . "
i think that 's reasonable , it 's a basic economic principle . "
some critics say the scheme is flawed because it is voluntary .
banks are not to be forced to dispose of toxic assets through the soffin national rescue program .
the government insists that " good banks " are interesting for investors and a cleaned up , reliable balance sheet will attract capital .
the draft legislation still has to go before both the lower and upper houses of parliament , the bundestag und bundesrat . wl / pfd / afp / ard send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de financial watchdog chief calls for " bad bank " for toxic assets the head of a watchdog committee of germany 's bank stabilization fund has called for the creation of a " bad bank " that could buy up toxic assets and unblock interbank lending .
-lrb- 11.01.2009 -rrb- us mortgage crisis hits german banks the battered subprime mortgage market in the united states is increasingly impacting the us economy .
now , losses from risky us home loans to borrowers with poor credit histories have swept across the atlantic .
-lrb- 31.07.2007 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic the german cabinet backs plan to relieve the country 's banks of their toxic assets feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live hits in germany pop from the top 100 listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
cannes rolls out the world 's most famous red carpet once again -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 29.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle music art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de film -pipe- 13.05.2009 cannes rolls out the world 's most famous red carpet once again großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : in a cannes first , an animated film opened the festival each may , a festival held on the french riviera draws a collection of the world 's leading cinema minds from all corners of the globe : the cannes film festival .
this year 's edition kicked off on wednesday . the 62nd gathering of cinema 's elite in the resort town of cannes , which sits on france 's mediterranean coast , remains one of the world 's most esteemed and prestigious film festivals .
to win the coveted palme d 'or prize for best film at cannes could be described as a crowning achievement for any producer , director , actor or film studio involved in the production .
unlike other well-known film festivals , such as those in berlin and venice , the focus at cannes is usually on aesthetics : beautiful cinema .
though this year 's 20 entries take on more brutal tones .
this includes american quentin tarantino 's ultra-violent " inglourious basterds , " about a group of bloodthirsty nazi hunters , and korean park chan wook 's priest-turned-vampire flick " bak-jwi " -lrb- " thirst " -rrb- , which has already been racing up the movie charts in his home country .
maverick danish director lars von trier also raises the horror notch this year with his " antichrist , " in which willem dafoe and charlotte gainsbourg find themselves confronting their inner fears and some dark forces in a deserted cabin in the woods .
bildunterschrift : german director wim wenders ' film " paris , texas " is a past winner at cannes german co-production this year also sees a motion picture from germany-born director michael haneke , who directed the 2001 palme d 'or-winning film " the piano teacher . "
his latest cannes entry , " das weisse band " -lrb- " the white ribbon " -rrb- , is set in a village in protestant northern germany in 1913 .
haneke 's tale recreates a country on the eve of world war i , told through the lives of members of a youth choir run by the village school teacher and their families .
little more has been written about the film , the result of haneke 's strict policy of silence in the lead up to his films ' openings .
the film was a joint production between studios in germany , france , austria and italy .
if " the white ribbon " finds success at cannes this year , it would not be the first german co-production to make a name for itself at the festival .
in 1979 , volker schloendorff 's screen adaptation of " die blechtrommel " -lrb- " the tin drum " -rrb- took the top prize , as did wim wenders ' 1984 film " paris , texas . "
new and old faces bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : de niro will always be remembered for his leading role in " taxi driver " these films went on to become part of cinematic history , as do most palme d 'or winners .
this venerated list includes francis ford coppola 's " apocalypse now , " bunuel 's " viridiana , " visconti 's " the leopard " and scorsese 's " taxi driver . "
this year , all eyes will be on 3-d comedy " up " from us director pete docter , which is the first animated film to open the 12-day festival .
the story features an old man who ties balloons to his house in the hope of fulfilling a boyhood dream of flying to south america .
meanwhile , a man bent on avenging the death of his daughter in hong kong director jonnie to 's " vengeance " is also screening , and seven years after shaking up a storm in cannes with his story of rape in " irreversible , " france 's gaspar noe is back at the festival with " enter the void " about a brutal murder .
belt tightening bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the glitterati wo n't be stopped by the financial crisis with the economic crisis having cut a swathe through the world film industry over the last year , filmmakers from hollywood through to bollywood have faced cost-cutting , studio layoffs and an ever more cautious army of producers and movie financiers .
already signs have emerged that the motion picture business has scaled back plans for the lavish parties and extravagant promotional events that have always been a feature of the festival .
but all bets are that whatever the economic climate , this year 's gathering is still likely to celebrate movie-making and the cult of the celebrity with considerable style and flair . dfm / pfd / dpa / afp / reuters send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de germany 's film industry celebrates banner year in 2008 german productions contributed decisively to a banner year in the nation 's film industry in 2008 , continuing last year 's upbeat trend .
-lrb- 05.02.2009 -rrb- lights , camera , action for kosslick as berlinale approaches armed with a mischievous smile and twinkling eyes , dieter kosslick revels in his role as the director of the berlinale , which kicks off this year with a film about the illegal machinations of an international bank .
-lrb- 03.02.2009 -rrb- german love triangle squares off at venice film festival " jerichow , " a love triangle by german director christian petzold , screened at the venice film festival , the first german entry competing for the golden lion since 2004 .
it faces strong competition from the us and italy .
-lrb- 29.08.2008 -rrb- media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
twitter follow dw culture keep up on europe 's culture and lifestyle scene .
feature scorpions on tour a legendary rock band is calling it quits and dw joins them on their final tour .
recent picture galleries bayreuth and the wagner family the color master : photos by joel sternfeld summer sunglasses car fetish exhibition berlin fashion week day of the kiss ai weiwei , the photographer podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's free podcast series .
meet story-teller and guitarist max prosa ' german pop ' homepage word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
view from my window radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
soundscape 100 concert hour arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
van gaal to become next bayern munich coach -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 05.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de soccer -pipe- 13.05.2009 van gaal to become next bayern munich coach großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : futuer bayern munich head coach louis van gaal bayern munich are set to sign dutch coach louis van gaal ending weeks of speculation over who will be in charge of the bundesliga soccer club next season . bayern munich have confirmed that dutch coach louis van gaal will join the defending bundesliga champions as head coach on a two-year contract as of july 1 .
he is to replace interim coach jupp heynkes , who took over after juergen klinsmann was fired last month .
the coach who has led az alkmaar to their first dutch league title since 1981 , had been bayern 's first choice for the job . other managers under consideration are said to have included inter manager jose mourinho and arsenal 's arsene wenger .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bayern chairman karl-heinz rummenigge munich pleased with choice " we are happy that in louis van gaal we have managed to secure such an experienced and successful coach for bayern munich , " said bayern chairman karl-heinz rummenigge in a statement posted on the club 's website on wednesday .
having steered ajax to the champions league title in 1995 , van gaal , 57 , has a wealth of experience having also led the giants from amsterdam to consecutive dutch titles in 1994 , 1995 and 1996 .
after leading barcelona to back-to-back spanish league titles in 1998 and 1999 , the only blip in an otherwise exceptional career was when he took charge of the netherlands in 2000 .
when the dutch failed to reach the world cup finals in japan and south korea in 2002 , he was replaced by dick advocaat .
van gaal inherits a squad that is level on points with bundesliga leaders wolfsburg with two games remaining in the season .
he is expected to be closely involved in transfer decisions at the end of this season .
in return for alkmaar agreeing to release van gaal before his contract expires , bayern have agreed to play a friendly against alkmaar in the summer of 2010 without charging a fee . nt / pfd , sid / reuters / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report new feature round 2 picks it 's bundesliga round 2 .
the dw experts dust off the crystal ball for another set of forecasts .
scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results at a glance . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
van gaal to become next bayern munich coach -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de soccer -pipe- 13.05.2009 van gaal to become next bayern munich coach großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : futuer bayern munich head coach louis van gaal bayern munich are set to sign dutch coach louis van gaal ending weeks of speculation over who will be in charge of the bundesliga soccer club next season . bayern munich have confirmed that dutch coach louis van gaal will join the defending bundesliga champions as head coach on a two-year contract as of july 1 .
he is to replace interim coach jupp heynkes , who took over after juergen klinsmann was fired last month .
the coach who has led az alkmaar to their first dutch league title since 1981 , had been bayern 's first choice for the job . other managers under consideration are said to have included inter manager jose mourinho and arsenal 's arsene wenger .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bayern chairman karl-heinz rummenigge munich pleased with choice " we are happy that in louis van gaal we have managed to secure such an experienced and successful coach for bayern munich , " said bayern chairman karl-heinz rummenigge in a statement posted on the club 's website on wednesday .
having steered ajax to the champions league title in 1995 , van gaal , 57 , has a wealth of experience having also led the giants from amsterdam to consecutive dutch titles in 1994 , 1995 and 1996 .
after leading barcelona to back-to-back spanish league titles in 1998 and 1999 , the only blip in an otherwise exceptional career was when he took charge of the netherlands in 2000 .
when the dutch failed to reach the world cup finals in japan and south korea in 2002 , he was replaced by dick advocaat .
van gaal inherits a squad that is level on points with bundesliga leaders wolfsburg with two games remaining in the season .
he is expected to be closely involved in transfer decisions at the end of this season .
in return for alkmaar agreeing to release van gaal before his contract expires , bayern have agreed to play a friendly against alkmaar in the summer of 2010 without charging a fee . nt / pfd , sid / reuters / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ? dw-tv europe live euromaxx - leben und kultur in europa we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live in-box -lsb- in-box -rsb- feedback from around the world listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-radio listen to the latest from german soccer on dw-radio .
sports report world cup brazil 's hopes for winning this summer 's world cup depend on five-time player of the year marta .
watch the video anti-racism girls wanted : scouting for germany 's next generation of female football talent listen to the audio art women 's football - a source of inspiration watch the video video women 's soccer is more popular than ever in the us .
watch the video africa kenya : from the slum to the football stadium watch the video final standings click here for the final 2010-11 bundesliga table . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
van gaal to become next bayern munich coach -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 29.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de soccer -pipe- 13.05.2009 van gaal to become next bayern munich coach großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : futuer bayern munich head coach louis van gaal bayern munich are set to sign dutch coach louis van gaal ending weeks of speculation over who will be in charge of the bundesliga soccer club next season . bayern munich have confirmed that dutch coach louis van gaal will join the defending bundesliga champions as head coach on a two-year contract as of july 1 .
he is to replace interim coach jupp heynkes , who took over after juergen klinsmann was fired last month .
the coach who has led az alkmaar to their first dutch league title since 1981 , had been bayern 's first choice for the job . other managers under consideration are said to have included inter manager jose mourinho and arsenal 's arsene wenger .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bayern chairman karl-heinz rummenigge munich pleased with choice " we are happy that in louis van gaal we have managed to secure such an experienced and successful coach for bayern munich , " said bayern chairman karl-heinz rummenigge in a statement posted on the club 's website on wednesday .
having steered ajax to the champions league title in 1995 , van gaal , 57 , has a wealth of experience having also led the giants from amsterdam to consecutive dutch titles in 1994 , 1995 and 1996 .
after leading barcelona to back-to-back spanish league titles in 1998 and 1999 , the only blip in an otherwise exceptional career was when he took charge of the netherlands in 2000 .
when the dutch failed to reach the world cup finals in japan and south korea in 2002 , he was replaced by dick advocaat .
van gaal inherits a squad that is level on points with bundesliga leaders wolfsburg with two games remaining in the season .
he is expected to be closely involved in transfer decisions at the end of this season .
in return for alkmaar agreeing to release van gaal before his contract expires , bayern have agreed to play a friendly against alkmaar in the summer of 2010 without charging a fee . nt / pfd , sid / reuters / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ? dw-tv europe live im focus - dokumentationen und reportagen we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live dw-radio would you listen ?
the best of german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report referees a new high-tech center in spain hopes to help referees improve their skills .
listen to the report media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
pope visits west bank , calls for palestinian statehood -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 30.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de religion -pipe- 13.05.2009 pope visits west bank , calls for palestinian statehood großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : palestinians gave an enthusiastic welcome to pope benedict during a visit to bethlehem , pope benedict xvi voiced support for palestinian aspirations of an independent homeland and said he hoped the wall that israel has erected in and around the west bank would come down . speaking in bethlehem after holding a mass in manger square , the pope pressed calls to remove the wall and watch towers that seal bethlehem off from jerusalem .
" towering over us ... is a stark reminder of the stalemate that relations between israelis and palestinians seem to have reached - the wall , " the pope said as he stood in the shadow of israel 's separation wall in the aida refugee camp , which houses refugees from israel 's creation in 1948 .
the pope said it 's " understandable that palestinians feel frustrated , " adding that " their legitimate aspirations for permanent homes , for an independent palestinian state , remain unfulfilled . "
the camp is home to around 5,000 refugees .
bildunterschrift : palestinian children at the aida refugee camp next to a poster of the pope " i have seen , ... overshadowing much of bethlehem , the wall that intrudes into your territories , separating neighbors and dividing families , " the pope said in the town believed to be the birthplace of jesus christ .
" although walls can be easily built , we all know that they do not last forever .
they can be taken down . "
pope lends support to palestinian statehood earlier , thousands greeted the pope 's black limousine as he made his way to manger square where he said mass for about 5,000 people next to the church of the nativity that marks the spot where christians believe jesus was born to mary in a stable .
one of the aims of the pope 's visit is to attempt to preserve a shrinking christian presence in the middle east .
the christian population of bethlehem has decreased dramatically in recent years through emigration . thousands of christians left the town after a palestinian uprising in 2000 and was met by an israeli security clampdown and the start of construction of the barrier .
the pope acknowledged israel 's security concerns as well as palestinian suffering , and urged people not to " resort to acts of violence or terrorism . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : pope benedict xvi outside of the church of the nativity in bethlehem the pope said his heart went out to those caught up in the conflict in gaza , adding that he was praying for an end to the israeli embargo of the gaza strip .
earlier , the pontiff told palestinian president mahmoud abbas that he backed the creation of a palestinian state .
" the holy see supports the right of your people to a sovereign palestinian homeland in the land of your forefathers , secure and at peace with your neighbors , within internationally recognized borders , " he said .
the pope 's comments are the vatican 's strongest and most symbolic public backing yet for an independent palestinian state .
the two-state solution is supported by abbas , arab nations and western powers .
but the new israeli prime minister , benjamin netanyahu , has declined so far to endorse it .
visit dogged by controversy the german-born pope 's week-long trip to the middle east , his first visit to the region , has not been without controversy .
on tuesday , a row erupted over the pope 's membership as a teenager of the hitler youth , as he paid a historic visit to holy sites in jerusalem .
vatican spokesman , federico lombardi , said the pontiff had " never , never , never " belonged to the organization , but later changed his version , saying that he had been a member but his membership was compulsory .
in his own 1997 memoirs , pope benedict had said he had been registered with the hitler youth while he was at a seminary .
the latest row comes on the heels of comments by some israeli leaders complaining that the pope did not go far enough in offering emotion in remarks he made on monday at the yad vashem memorial to the jewish dead of the holocaust . sp , pfd reuters / ap / dpa send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de pope continues balancing act on tour of holy sites in jerusalem pope benedict xvi became the first pope to enter a politically-charged shrine in jerusalem sacred to jews and muslims .
the pope continues to face criticism on the second day of a week-long visit to the region .
-lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- pope continues middle east tour as criticism of yad vashem speech grows pope benedict xvi used a service at jerusalem 's yad vashem memorial to express " deep compassion " for the victims of the holocaust .
but jewish leaders in germany and israel criticized the pope for not going far enough .
-lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- pope seeks to salve holocaust wounds pope benedict xvi is on his first trip to israel .
he has used a speech to seek to heal the wounds created by , among other things , his reinstatement of a holocaust-denying bishop .
-lrb- 11.05.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic pope benedict calls israel 's security barrier in the west bank " tragic " radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
berlin unveils plan to help rid banks of toxic assets -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de economy -pipe- 13.05.2009 berlin unveils plan to help rid banks of toxic assets großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : banks can now move to clean up their balance sheets the german cabinet has approved a draft law to help rid lenders of an estimated 200 billion euros -lrb- $ 272 billion -rrb- in worthless assets .
banks can swap the assets against guaranteed state loans for up to 20 years . the aim of the " bad bank " plan is to clean up lenders ' balance sheets and restore confidence in the financial sector .
the bill , drafted by finance minister peer steinbrueck , would enable banks to receive state guaranteed loans on commercial terms , in exchange for offloading their troubled assets .
through the government 's financial market stabilization fund , soffin , lenders would be able to swap toxic assets for guaranteed state loans worth 90 percent of the original value of the assets .
lenders would pay an annual fee and be able to " freeze " the assets until better times come along . after a maximum of 20 years , they would have to pay back any losses to the government .
some believe the german banks hold more than 200 billion euros of troubled assets .
" in the interests of the real economy , we are buying time so that the so-called toxic assets can be cleared up , " explained chancellor angela merkel 's chief of staff , thomas de maiziere .
what 's worthless today , may not be tomorrow bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : german finance minister peer steinbrueck says taxpayers will not foot the bill " it 's not clear how toxic these assets really are , " said finance expert , otto salms of the liberal free democrats -lrb- fdp -rrb- .
" some of these assets may well be worth more again once the crisis ends and the economy recovers .
if that 's the case , the banks may end up having to write off much less at a later date than they would if they were forced to liquidate these assets today . "
economic recovery and financial liquidity go hand in hand .
one of the factors that 's been driving the crisis around the world is that banks have stopped lending to each other because they have n't been able to assess the size of the financial black holes on each other 's balance sheets .
berlin hopes that by removing bad holdings from balance sheets banks will start lending to each other again , as well as to businesses and consumers .
this in turn would help kick-start the german economy , the biggest in europe , which is expected to shrink by six percent this year .
shareholders , not taxpayers , to bear the burden under the plan , which comes five months before a general election , any liabilities at the end of maturity would accrue to shareholders , and not to the taxpayer .
" it 's only right that whoever made profits through taking high risks over the years , must also be prepared to take the losses , " explained financial expert johannes kahrs , of the social democrats -lrb- spd -rrb- , the coalition partners of chancellor angela merkel 's christian democrats -lrb- cdu -rrb- . "
i think that 's reasonable , it 's a basic economic principle . "
some critics say the scheme is flawed because it is voluntary .
banks are not to be forced to dispose of toxic assets through the soffin national rescue program .
the government insists that " good banks " are interesting for investors and a cleaned up , reliable balance sheet will attract capital .
the draft legislation still has to go before both the lower and upper houses of parliament , the bundestag und bundesrat . wl / pfd / afp / ard send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de financial watchdog chief calls for " bad bank " for toxic assets the head of a watchdog committee of germany 's bank stabilization fund has called for the creation of a " bad bank " that could buy up toxic assets and unblock interbank lending .
-lrb- 11.01.2009 -rrb- us mortgage crisis hits german banks the battered subprime mortgage market in the united states is increasingly impacting the us economy .
now , losses from risky us home loans to borrowers with poor credit histories have swept across the atlantic .
-lrb- 31.07.2007 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic the german cabinet backs plan to relieve the country 's banks of their toxic assets radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live im focus - dokumentationen und reportagen we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live in-box -lsb- in-box -rsb- feedback from around the world listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
art german photographer lala aufsberg 's work is a fascinating historical record of the 20th century .
watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
pope visits west bank , calls for palestinian statehood -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 28.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de religion -pipe- 13.05.2009 pope visits west bank , calls for palestinian statehood großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : palestinians gave an enthusiastic welcome to pope benedict during a visit to bethlehem , pope benedict xvi voiced support for palestinian aspirations of an independent homeland and said he hoped the wall that israel has erected in and around the west bank would come down . speaking in bethlehem after holding a mass in manger square , the pope pressed calls to remove the wall and watch towers that seal bethlehem off from jerusalem .
" towering over us ... is a stark reminder of the stalemate that relations between israelis and palestinians seem to have reached - the wall , " the pope said as he stood in the shadow of israel 's separation wall in the aida refugee camp , which houses refugees from israel 's creation in 1948 .
the pope said it 's " understandable that palestinians feel frustrated , " adding that " their legitimate aspirations for permanent homes , for an independent palestinian state , remain unfulfilled . "
the camp is home to around 5,000 refugees .
bildunterschrift : palestinian children at the aida refugee camp next to a poster of the pope " i have seen , ... overshadowing much of bethlehem , the wall that intrudes into your territories , separating neighbors and dividing families , " the pope said in the town believed to be the birthplace of jesus christ .
" although walls can be easily built , we all know that they do not last forever .
they can be taken down . "
pope lends support to palestinian statehood earlier , thousands greeted the pope 's black limousine as he made his way to manger square where he said mass for about 5,000 people next to the church of the nativity that marks the spot where christians believe jesus was born to mary in a stable .
one of the aims of the pope 's visit is to attempt to preserve a shrinking christian presence in the middle east .
the christian population of bethlehem has decreased dramatically in recent years through emigration . thousands of christians left the town after a palestinian uprising in 2000 and was met by an israeli security clampdown and the start of construction of the barrier .
the pope acknowledged israel 's security concerns as well as palestinian suffering , and urged people not to " resort to acts of violence or terrorism . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : pope benedict xvi outside of the church of the nativity in bethlehem the pope said his heart went out to those caught up in the conflict in gaza , adding that he was praying for an end to the israeli embargo of the gaza strip .
earlier , the pontiff told palestinian president mahmoud abbas that he backed the creation of a palestinian state .
" the holy see supports the right of your people to a sovereign palestinian homeland in the land of your forefathers , secure and at peace with your neighbors , within internationally recognized borders , " he said .
the pope 's comments are the vatican 's strongest and most symbolic public backing yet for an independent palestinian state .
the two-state solution is supported by abbas , arab nations and western powers .
but the new israeli prime minister , benjamin netanyahu , has declined so far to endorse it .
visit dogged by controversy the german-born pope 's week-long trip to the middle east , his first visit to the region , has not been without controversy .
on tuesday , a row erupted over the pope 's membership as a teenager of the hitler youth , as he paid a historic visit to holy sites in jerusalem .
vatican spokesman , federico lombardi , said the pontiff had " never , never , never " belonged to the organization , but later changed his version , saying that he had been a member but his membership was compulsory .
in his own 1997 memoirs , pope benedict had said he had been registered with the hitler youth while he was at a seminary .
the latest row comes on the heels of comments by some israeli leaders complaining that the pope did not go far enough in offering emotion in remarks he made on monday at the yad vashem memorial to the jewish dead of the holocaust . sp , pfd reuters / ap / dpa send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de pope continues balancing act on tour of holy sites in jerusalem pope benedict xvi became the first pope to enter a politically-charged shrine in jerusalem sacred to jews and muslims .
the pope continues to face criticism on the second day of a week-long visit to the region .
-lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- pope continues middle east tour as criticism of yad vashem speech grows pope benedict xvi used a service at jerusalem 's yad vashem memorial to express " deep compassion " for the victims of the holocaust .
but jewish leaders in germany and israel criticized the pope for not going far enough .
-lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- pope seeks to salve holocaust wounds pope benedict xvi is on his first trip to israel .
he has used a speech to seek to heal the wounds created by , among other things , his reinstatement of a holocaust-denying bishop .
-lrb- 11.05.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic pope benedict calls israel 's security barrier in the west bank " tragic " radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
berlin unveils plan to help rid banks of toxic assets -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 04.12.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de economy -pipe- 13.05.2009 berlin unveils plan to help rid banks of toxic assets großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : banks can now move to clean up their balance sheets the german cabinet has approved a draft law to help rid lenders of an estimated 200 billion euros -lrb- $ 272 billion -rrb- in worthless assets .
banks can swap the assets against guaranteed state loans for up to 20 years . the aim of the " bad bank " plan is to clean up lenders ' balance sheets and restore confidence in the financial sector .
the bill , drafted by finance minister peer steinbrueck , would enable banks to receive state guaranteed loans on commercial terms , in exchange for offloading their troubled assets .
through the government 's financial market stabilization fund , soffin , lenders would be able to swap toxic assets for guaranteed state loans worth 90 percent of the original value of the assets .
lenders would pay an annual fee and be able to " freeze " the assets until better times come along . after a maximum of 20 years , they would have to pay back any losses to the government .
some believe the german banks hold more than 200 billion euros of troubled assets .
" in the interests of the real economy , we are buying time so that the so-called toxic assets can be cleared up , " explained chancellor angela merkel 's chief of staff , thomas de maiziere .
what 's worthless today , may not be tomorrow bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : german finance minister peer steinbrueck says taxpayers will not foot the bill " it 's not clear how toxic these assets really are , " said finance expert , otto salms of the liberal free democrats -lrb- fdp -rrb- .
" some of these assets may well be worth more again once the crisis ends and the economy recovers .
if that 's the case , the banks may end up having to write off much less at a later date than they would if they were forced to liquidate these assets today . "
economic recovery and financial liquidity go hand in hand .
one of the factors that 's been driving the crisis around the world is that banks have stopped lending to each other because they have n't been able to assess the size of the financial black holes on each other 's balance sheets .
berlin hopes that by removing bad holdings from balance sheets banks will start lending to each other again , as well as to businesses and consumers .
this in turn would help kick-start the german economy , the biggest in europe , which is expected to shrink by six percent this year .
shareholders , not taxpayers , to bear the burden under the plan , which comes five months before a general election , any liabilities at the end of maturity would accrue to shareholders , and not to the taxpayer .
" it 's only right that whoever made profits through taking high risks over the years , must also be prepared to take the losses , " explained financial expert johannes kahrs , of the social democrats -lrb- spd -rrb- , the coalition partners of chancellor angela merkel 's christian democrats -lrb- cdu -rrb- . "
i think that 's reasonable , it 's a basic economic principle . "
some critics say the scheme is flawed because it is voluntary .
banks are not to be forced to dispose of toxic assets through the soffin national rescue program .
the government insists that " good banks " are interesting for investors and a cleaned up , reliable balance sheet will attract capital .
the draft legislation still has to go before both the lower and upper houses of parliament , the bundestag und bundesrat . wl / pfd / afp / ard send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de financial watchdog chief calls for " bad bank " for toxic assets the head of a watchdog committee of germany 's bank stabilization fund has called for the creation of a " bad bank " that could buy up toxic assets and unblock interbank lending .
-lrb- 11.01.2009 -rrb- us mortgage crisis hits german banks the battered subprime mortgage market in the united states is increasingly impacting the us economy .
now , losses from risky us home loans to borrowers with poor credit histories have swept across the atlantic .
-lrb- 31.07.2007 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic the german cabinet backs plan to relieve the country 's banks of their toxic assets feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live quadriga we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
travel passau is called the three river city , but it is just as famous for its baroque splendor .
passau - baroque facades and vibrant arts watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
berlin unveils plan to help rid banks of toxic assets -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 04.09.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de economy -pipe- 13.05.2009 berlin unveils plan to help rid banks of toxic assets großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : banks can now move to clean up their balance sheets the german cabinet has approved a draft law to help rid lenders of an estimated 200 billion euros -lrb- $ 272 billion -rrb- in worthless assets .
banks can swap the assets against guaranteed state loans for up to 20 years . the aim of the " bad bank " plan is to clean up lenders ' balance sheets and restore confidence in the financial sector .
the bill , drafted by finance minister peer steinbrueck , would enable banks to receive state guaranteed loans on commercial terms , in exchange for offloading their troubled assets .
through the government 's financial market stabilization fund , soffin , lenders would be able to swap toxic assets for guaranteed state loans worth 90 percent of the original value of the assets .
lenders would pay an annual fee and be able to " freeze " the assets until better times come along . after a maximum of 20 years , they would have to pay back any losses to the government .
some believe the german banks hold more than 200 billion euros of troubled assets .
" in the interests of the real economy , we are buying time so that the so-called toxic assets can be cleared up , " explained chancellor angela merkel 's chief of staff , thomas de maiziere .
what 's worthless today , may not be tomorrow bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : german finance minister peer steinbrueck says taxpayers will not foot the bill " it 's not clear how toxic these assets really are , " said finance expert , otto salms of the liberal free democrats -lrb- fdp -rrb- .
" some of these assets may well be worth more again once the crisis ends and the economy recovers .
if that 's the case , the banks may end up having to write off much less at a later date than they would if they were forced to liquidate these assets today . "
economic recovery and financial liquidity go hand in hand .
one of the factors that 's been driving the crisis around the world is that banks have stopped lending to each other because they have n't been able to assess the size of the financial black holes on each other 's balance sheets .
berlin hopes that by removing bad holdings from balance sheets banks will start lending to each other again , as well as to businesses and consumers .
this in turn would help kick-start the german economy , the biggest in europe , which is expected to shrink by six percent this year .
shareholders , not taxpayers , to bear the burden under the plan , which comes five months before a general election , any liabilities at the end of maturity would accrue to shareholders , and not to the taxpayer .
" it 's only right that whoever made profits through taking high risks over the years , must also be prepared to take the losses , " explained financial expert johannes kahrs , of the social democrats -lrb- spd -rrb- , the coalition partners of chancellor angela merkel 's christian democrats -lrb- cdu -rrb- . "
i think that 's reasonable , it 's a basic economic principle . "
some critics say the scheme is flawed because it is voluntary .
banks are not to be forced to dispose of toxic assets through the soffin national rescue program .
the government insists that " good banks " are interesting for investors and a cleaned up , reliable balance sheet will attract capital .
the draft legislation still has to go before both the lower and upper houses of parliament , the bundestag und bundesrat . wl / pfd / afp / ard send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de financial watchdog chief calls for " bad bank " for toxic assets the head of a watchdog committee of germany 's bank stabilization fund has called for the creation of a " bad bank " that could buy up toxic assets and unblock interbank lending .
-lrb- 11.01.2009 -rrb- us mortgage crisis hits german banks the battered subprime mortgage market in the united states is increasingly impacting the us economy .
now , losses from risky us home loans to borrowers with poor credit histories have swept across the atlantic .
-lrb- 31.07.2007 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic the german cabinet backs plan to relieve the country 's banks of their toxic assets feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inside europe listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
italian suspect in german mob killings to be extradited to italy -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 29.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de crime -pipe- 13.05.2009 italian suspect in german mob killings to be extradited to italy großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : strangio has been top of the most-wanted lists both in germany and in italy giovanni strangio , an italian-born top suspect in a 2007 mafia shootout in germany , is to be extradited to italy , not germany , a dutch court ruled on wednesday . judge fred salomon said strangio , who was arrested in march in the netherlands , would be handed over to italian authorities because italy 's claim to the suspect was stronger than germany 's .
" the italian -lrb- extradition -rrb- request enjoys priority , " salomon said as he handed down the ruling in an amsterdam court . strangio , 30 , is an alleged leading member of the notorious southern italian mafia ' ndrangheta and one of the most wanted people in germany and italy .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the six victims in the duisburg mafia killings were shot in their cars he is suspected of being the ringleader of a shootout that left six rival clan members dead outside a pizzeria in duisburg , western germany , in august 2007 .
germany still wants strangio public prosecutors in duisburg had been trying to get strangio extradited to germany to try him in a local court .
but in recent weeks , it was widely expected that the dutch court would rule in favor of italy .
prosecutors in duisburg have agreed that strangio should be taken first to italy , spokesman detlef nowotsch said .
" we are stepping back for the time being , " nowotsch said .
" but that does n't mean that we do n't want strangio , " he added .
italy 's case for strangio stronger , judge says on wednesday , salomon said italy 's reasons for wanting to try strangio on home soil were more compelling than germany 's .
the judge said the german killings had been the result of clashes between rival clans in the italian town of san luca .
" therefore the relation with italy is bigger than the relation with duisburg where the crime took place , " salomon said .
the judge also pointed out that italy was seeking to prosecute strangio not only for the 2007 killings , but also for membership of a criminal organization .
" furthermore , all the victims had italian nationality , " he said .
strangio is to be transferred to italian custody from his dutch prison in the next 10 days .
killings draw attention to ' ndrangheta mafia the execution-style shootings in duisburg , which grabbed headlines in germany , stemmed from a feud between two rival clans .
the bloody crime drew international attention to the ' ndrangheta , a crime syndicate based in the southern italian region of calabria .
witnesses said they saw two attackers fire about 70 bullets at the six victims , aged 16 to 39 , as they were sitting in their cars after leaving the da bruno restaurant in the industrial city .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the killings outside the da bruno restaurant in duisburg sent shockwaves through germany the duisburg hit was believed to have been revenge for the 2006 christmas-time killing of maria strangio , a cousin of giovanni strangio and the wife of the head of the nirta-strangio clan , giovanni nirta , and the wounding of her son .
the battle between the rival clans has left 16 people dead since 1991 .
in march , an italian court jailed 31 people for the duisburg massacre , one of them for 13 years .
italy 's eurispes social studies institute has estimated ' ndrangheta 's turnover from trafficking in drugs and arms , prostitution and extortion in 2007 at 44 billion euros -lrb- $ 65 billion -rrb- .
strangio was arrested in march in the dutch town of diemen , after a lengthy probe involving telephone wire tapping , surveillance and close coordination between dutch , german and italian police . sp / pfd dpa / afp / reuters send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de dutch police arrest top suspect in duisburg mafia massacre dutch police have arrested an italian man named by authorities as the main suspect for the 2007 murder of six men outside a duisburg restaurant .
the man 's brother-in-law was also arrested during the operation .
-lrb- 13.03.2009 -rrb- police nab mafia boss tied to duisburg killings a suspected mafia boss who was implicated in the execution-style killings of six members of his clan in duisburg , germany , in 2007 , was finally tracked down in italy .
-lrb- 16.10.2008 -rrb- police arrest mafia boss with ties to duisburg massacre italian police arrested a wanted calabrian mafia boss who is the brother-in-law of a chief suspect in the august 2007 killings of six italians in duisburg , news reports said on thursday , aug .
7 .
-lrb- 07.08.2008 -rrb- radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx - lifestyle europe we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live european business week plans , prices and property listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
economics as the euro faces insecurity , the swiss franc is growing stronger - but not all swiss are happy .
watch the video soccer turkish soccer officials meet in geneva after a match-fixing scandal gets dozens arrested .
listen to the audio london 2012 london threw a party to celebrate one year before the summer olympics 2012 .
listen to the report eastern europe four years after romania joined the eu , its capital city bucharest is enjoying a renaissance .
watch the video inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
the rhino mafia where to serve ?
soliders with dual citizenship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
italian suspect in german mob killings to be extradited to italy -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 28.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de crime -pipe- 13.05.2009 italian suspect in german mob killings to be extradited to italy großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : strangio has been top of the most-wanted lists both in germany and in italy giovanni strangio , an italian-born top suspect in a 2007 mafia shootout in germany , is to be extradited to italy , not germany , a dutch court ruled on wednesday . judge fred salomon said strangio , who was arrested in march in the netherlands , would be handed over to italian authorities because italy 's claim to the suspect was stronger than germany 's .
" the italian -lrb- extradition -rrb- request enjoys priority , " salomon said as he handed down the ruling in an amsterdam court . strangio , 30 , is an alleged leading member of the notorious southern italian mafia ' ndrangheta and one of the most wanted people in germany and italy .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the six victims in the duisburg mafia killings were shot in their cars he is suspected of being the ringleader of a shootout that left six rival clan members dead outside a pizzeria in duisburg , western germany , in august 2007 .
germany still wants strangio public prosecutors in duisburg had been trying to get strangio extradited to germany to try him in a local court .
but in recent weeks , it was widely expected that the dutch court would rule in favor of italy .
prosecutors in duisburg have agreed that strangio should be taken first to italy , spokesman detlef nowotsch said .
" we are stepping back for the time being , " nowotsch said .
" but that does n't mean that we do n't want strangio , " he added .
italy 's case for strangio stronger , judge says on wednesday , salomon said italy 's reasons for wanting to try strangio on home soil were more compelling than germany 's .
the judge said the german killings had been the result of clashes between rival clans in the italian town of san luca .
" therefore the relation with italy is bigger than the relation with duisburg where the crime took place , " salomon said .
the judge also pointed out that italy was seeking to prosecute strangio not only for the 2007 killings , but also for membership of a criminal organization .
" furthermore , all the victims had italian nationality , " he said .
strangio is to be transferred to italian custody from his dutch prison in the next 10 days .
killings draw attention to ' ndrangheta mafia the execution-style shootings in duisburg , which grabbed headlines in germany , stemmed from a feud between two rival clans .
the bloody crime drew international attention to the ' ndrangheta , a crime syndicate based in the southern italian region of calabria .
witnesses said they saw two attackers fire about 70 bullets at the six victims , aged 16 to 39 , as they were sitting in their cars after leaving the da bruno restaurant in the industrial city .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the killings outside the da bruno restaurant in duisburg sent shockwaves through germany the duisburg hit was believed to have been revenge for the 2006 christmas-time killing of maria strangio , a cousin of giovanni strangio and the wife of the head of the nirta-strangio clan , giovanni nirta , and the wounding of her son .
the battle between the rival clans has left 16 people dead since 1991 .
in march , an italian court jailed 31 people for the duisburg massacre , one of them for 13 years .
italy 's eurispes social studies institute has estimated ' ndrangheta 's turnover from trafficking in drugs and arms , prostitution and extortion in 2007 at 44 billion euros -lrb- $ 65 billion -rrb- .
strangio was arrested in march in the dutch town of diemen , after a lengthy probe involving telephone wire tapping , surveillance and close coordination between dutch , german and italian police . sp / pfd dpa / afp / reuters send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de dutch police arrest top suspect in duisburg mafia massacre dutch police have arrested an italian man named by authorities as the main suspect for the 2007 murder of six men outside a duisburg restaurant .
the man 's brother-in-law was also arrested during the operation .
-lrb- 13.03.2009 -rrb- police nab mafia boss tied to duisburg killings a suspected mafia boss who was implicated in the execution-style killings of six members of his clan in duisburg , germany , in 2007 , was finally tracked down in italy .
-lrb- 16.10.2008 -rrb- police arrest mafia boss with ties to duisburg massacre italian police arrested a wanted calabrian mafia boss who is the brother-in-law of a chief suspect in the august 2007 killings of six italians in duisburg , news reports said on thursday , aug .
7 .
-lrb- 07.08.2008 -rrb- radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live im focus - dokumentationen und reportagen we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
art the czech state rushes artwork out of a german museum in light of a potential legal issue .
watch the video poland a politician 's comment about the polish region of silesia stirs up an old debate about identity .
watch the video reader response austerity avoidance as anti-austerity riots continue in debt-stricken greece , readers consider the country 's options .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
italian suspect in german mob killings to be extradited to italy -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 08.10.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de crime -pipe- 13.05.2009 italian suspect in german mob killings to be extradited to italy großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : strangio has been top of the most-wanted lists both in germany and in italy giovanni strangio , an italian-born top suspect in a 2007 mafia shootout in germany , is to be extradited to italy , not germany , a dutch court ruled on wednesday . judge fred salomon said strangio , who was arrested in march in the netherlands , would be handed over to italian authorities because italy 's claim to the suspect was stronger than germany 's .
" the italian -lrb- extradition -rrb- request enjoys priority , " salomon said as he handed down the ruling in an amsterdam court . strangio , 30 , is an alleged leading member of the notorious southern italian mafia ' ndrangheta and one of the most wanted people in germany and italy .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the six victims in the duisburg mafia killings were shot in their cars he is suspected of being the ringleader of a shootout that left six rival clan members dead outside a pizzeria in duisburg , western germany , in august 2007 .
germany still wants strangio public prosecutors in duisburg had been trying to get strangio extradited to germany to try him in a local court .
but in recent weeks , it was widely expected that the dutch court would rule in favor of italy .
prosecutors in duisburg have agreed that strangio should be taken first to italy , spokesman detlef nowotsch said .
" we are stepping back for the time being , " nowotsch said .
" but that does n't mean that we do n't want strangio , " he added .
italy 's case for strangio stronger , judge says on wednesday , salomon said italy 's reasons for wanting to try strangio on home soil were more compelling than germany 's .
the judge said the german killings had been the result of clashes between rival clans in the italian town of san luca .
" therefore the relation with italy is bigger than the relation with duisburg where the crime took place , " salomon said .
the judge also pointed out that italy was seeking to prosecute strangio not only for the 2007 killings , but also for membership of a criminal organization .
" furthermore , all the victims had italian nationality , " he said .
strangio is to be transferred to italian custody from his dutch prison in the next 10 days .
killings draw attention to ' ndrangheta mafia the execution-style shootings in duisburg , which grabbed headlines in germany , stemmed from a feud between two rival clans .
the bloody crime drew international attention to the ' ndrangheta , a crime syndicate based in the southern italian region of calabria .
witnesses said they saw two attackers fire about 70 bullets at the six victims , aged 16 to 39 , as they were sitting in their cars after leaving the da bruno restaurant in the industrial city .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the killings outside the da bruno restaurant in duisburg sent shockwaves through germany the duisburg hit was believed to have been revenge for the 2006 christmas-time killing of maria strangio , a cousin of giovanni strangio and the wife of the head of the nirta-strangio clan , giovanni nirta , and the wounding of her son .
the battle between the rival clans has left 16 people dead since 1991 .
in march , an italian court jailed 31 people for the duisburg massacre , one of them for 13 years .
italy 's eurispes social studies institute has estimated ' ndrangheta 's turnover from trafficking in drugs and arms , prostitution and extortion in 2007 at 44 billion euros -lrb- $ 65 billion -rrb- .
strangio was arrested in march in the dutch town of diemen , after a lengthy probe involving telephone wire tapping , surveillance and close coordination between dutch , german and italian police . sp / pfd dpa / afp / reuters send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de dutch police arrest top suspect in duisburg mafia massacre dutch police have arrested an italian man named by authorities as the main suspect for the 2007 murder of six men outside a duisburg restaurant .
the man 's brother-in-law was also arrested during the operation .
-lrb- 13.03.2009 -rrb- police nab mafia boss tied to duisburg killings a suspected mafia boss who was implicated in the execution-style killings of six members of his clan in duisburg , germany , in 2007 , was finally tracked down in italy .
-lrb- 16.10.2008 -rrb- police arrest mafia boss with ties to duisburg massacre italian police arrested a wanted calabrian mafia boss who is the brother-in-law of a chief suspect in the august 2007 killings of six italians in duisburg , news reports said on thursday , aug .
7 .
-lrb- 07.08.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inside europe listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
betancourt book sparks controversy in france technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket are the gay games necessary ?
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
italian suspect in german mob killings to be extradited to italy -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 04.09.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de crime -pipe- 13.05.2009 italian suspect in german mob killings to be extradited to italy großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : strangio has been top of the most-wanted lists both in germany and in italy giovanni strangio , an italian-born top suspect in a 2007 mafia shootout in germany , is to be extradited to italy , not germany , a dutch court ruled on wednesday . judge fred salomon said strangio , who was arrested in march in the netherlands , would be handed over to italian authorities because italy 's claim to the suspect was stronger than germany 's .
" the italian -lrb- extradition -rrb- request enjoys priority , " salomon said as he handed down the ruling in an amsterdam court . strangio , 30 , is an alleged leading member of the notorious southern italian mafia ' ndrangheta and one of the most wanted people in germany and italy .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the six victims in the duisburg mafia killings were shot in their cars he is suspected of being the ringleader of a shootout that left six rival clan members dead outside a pizzeria in duisburg , western germany , in august 2007 .
germany still wants strangio public prosecutors in duisburg had been trying to get strangio extradited to germany to try him in a local court .
but in recent weeks , it was widely expected that the dutch court would rule in favor of italy .
prosecutors in duisburg have agreed that strangio should be taken first to italy , spokesman detlef nowotsch said .
" we are stepping back for the time being , " nowotsch said .
" but that does n't mean that we do n't want strangio , " he added .
italy 's case for strangio stronger , judge says on wednesday , salomon said italy 's reasons for wanting to try strangio on home soil were more compelling than germany 's .
the judge said the german killings had been the result of clashes between rival clans in the italian town of san luca .
" therefore the relation with italy is bigger than the relation with duisburg where the crime took place , " salomon said .
the judge also pointed out that italy was seeking to prosecute strangio not only for the 2007 killings , but also for membership of a criminal organization .
" furthermore , all the victims had italian nationality , " he said .
strangio is to be transferred to italian custody from his dutch prison in the next 10 days .
killings draw attention to ' ndrangheta mafia the execution-style shootings in duisburg , which grabbed headlines in germany , stemmed from a feud between two rival clans .
the bloody crime drew international attention to the ' ndrangheta , a crime syndicate based in the southern italian region of calabria .
witnesses said they saw two attackers fire about 70 bullets at the six victims , aged 16 to 39 , as they were sitting in their cars after leaving the da bruno restaurant in the industrial city .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the killings outside the da bruno restaurant in duisburg sent shockwaves through germany the duisburg hit was believed to have been revenge for the 2006 christmas-time killing of maria strangio , a cousin of giovanni strangio and the wife of the head of the nirta-strangio clan , giovanni nirta , and the wounding of her son .
the battle between the rival clans has left 16 people dead since 1991 .
in march , an italian court jailed 31 people for the duisburg massacre , one of them for 13 years .
italy 's eurispes social studies institute has estimated ' ndrangheta 's turnover from trafficking in drugs and arms , prostitution and extortion in 2007 at 44 billion euros -lrb- $ 65 billion -rrb- .
strangio was arrested in march in the dutch town of diemen , after a lengthy probe involving telephone wire tapping , surveillance and close coordination between dutch , german and italian police . sp / pfd dpa / afp / reuters send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de dutch police arrest top suspect in duisburg mafia massacre dutch police have arrested an italian man named by authorities as the main suspect for the 2007 murder of six men outside a duisburg restaurant .
the man 's brother-in-law was also arrested during the operation .
-lrb- 13.03.2009 -rrb- police nab mafia boss tied to duisburg killings a suspected mafia boss who was implicated in the execution-style killings of six members of his clan in duisburg , germany , in 2007 , was finally tracked down in italy .
-lrb- 16.10.2008 -rrb- police arrest mafia boss with ties to duisburg massacre italian police arrested a wanted calabrian mafia boss who is the brother-in-law of a chief suspect in the august 2007 killings of six italians in duisburg , news reports said on thursday , aug .
7 .
-lrb- 07.08.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live in focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
it simply is n't cricket are the gay games necessary ?
love parade - the end of an era oracle paul takes the plunge venturing into mafia turf europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
italian suspect in german mob killings to be extradited to italy -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de crime -pipe- 13.05.2009 italian suspect in german mob killings to be extradited to italy großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : strangio has been top of the most-wanted lists both in germany and in italy giovanni strangio , an italian-born top suspect in a 2007 mafia shootout in germany , is to be extradited to italy , not germany , a dutch court ruled on wednesday . judge fred salomon said strangio , who was arrested in march in the netherlands , would be handed over to italian authorities because italy 's claim to the suspect was stronger than germany 's .
" the italian -lrb- extradition -rrb- request enjoys priority , " salomon said as he handed down the ruling in an amsterdam court . strangio , 30 , is an alleged leading member of the notorious southern italian mafia ' ndrangheta and one of the most wanted people in germany and italy .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the six victims in the duisburg mafia killings were shot in their cars he is suspected of being the ringleader of a shootout that left six rival clan members dead outside a pizzeria in duisburg , western germany , in august 2007 .
germany still wants strangio public prosecutors in duisburg had been trying to get strangio extradited to germany to try him in a local court .
but in recent weeks , it was widely expected that the dutch court would rule in favor of italy .
prosecutors in duisburg have agreed that strangio should be taken first to italy , spokesman detlef nowotsch said .
" we are stepping back for the time being , " nowotsch said .
" but that does n't mean that we do n't want strangio , " he added .
italy 's case for strangio stronger , judge says on wednesday , salomon said italy 's reasons for wanting to try strangio on home soil were more compelling than germany 's .
the judge said the german killings had been the result of clashes between rival clans in the italian town of san luca .
" therefore the relation with italy is bigger than the relation with duisburg where the crime took place , " salomon said .
the judge also pointed out that italy was seeking to prosecute strangio not only for the 2007 killings , but also for membership of a criminal organization .
" furthermore , all the victims had italian nationality , " he said .
strangio is to be transferred to italian custody from his dutch prison in the next 10 days .
killings draw attention to ' ndrangheta mafia the execution-style shootings in duisburg , which grabbed headlines in germany , stemmed from a feud between two rival clans .
the bloody crime drew international attention to the ' ndrangheta , a crime syndicate based in the southern italian region of calabria .
witnesses said they saw two attackers fire about 70 bullets at the six victims , aged 16 to 39 , as they were sitting in their cars after leaving the da bruno restaurant in the industrial city .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the killings outside the da bruno restaurant in duisburg sent shockwaves through germany the duisburg hit was believed to have been revenge for the 2006 christmas-time killing of maria strangio , a cousin of giovanni strangio and the wife of the head of the nirta-strangio clan , giovanni nirta , and the wounding of her son .
the battle between the rival clans has left 16 people dead since 1991 .
in march , an italian court jailed 31 people for the duisburg massacre , one of them for 13 years .
italy 's eurispes social studies institute has estimated ' ndrangheta 's turnover from trafficking in drugs and arms , prostitution and extortion in 2007 at 44 billion euros -lrb- $ 65 billion -rrb- .
strangio was arrested in march in the dutch town of diemen , after a lengthy probe involving telephone wire tapping , surveillance and close coordination between dutch , german and italian police . sp / pfd dpa / afp / reuters send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de dutch police arrest top suspect in duisburg mafia massacre dutch police have arrested an italian man named by authorities as the main suspect for the 2007 murder of six men outside a duisburg restaurant .
the man 's brother-in-law was also arrested during the operation .
-lrb- 13.03.2009 -rrb- police nab mafia boss tied to duisburg killings a suspected mafia boss who was implicated in the execution-style killings of six members of his clan in duisburg , germany , in 2007 , was finally tracked down in italy .
-lrb- 16.10.2008 -rrb- police arrest mafia boss with ties to duisburg massacre italian police arrested a wanted calabrian mafia boss who is the brother-in-law of a chief suspect in the august 2007 killings of six italians in duisburg , news reports said on thursday , aug .
7 .
-lrb- 07.08.2008 -rrb- radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
reader response change the guard ?
strauss-kahn 's fall prompts reader skepticism about european stewardship of the imf .
health uk practioners are taking the eu to court over a ban on chinese herbal medicines .
listen to the audio poland poles protest the visit by erika steinbach , representative of the germans expelled from poland .
listen to the audio postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
french burqa ban fits secular ideals is berlusconi giving italy a bad name ?
a dubious record for belgium inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
berlin unveils plan to help rid banks of toxic assets -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 28.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de economy -pipe- 13.05.2009 berlin unveils plan to help rid banks of toxic assets großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : banks can now move to clean up their balance sheets the german cabinet has approved a draft law to help rid lenders of an estimated 200 billion euros -lrb- $ 272 billion -rrb- in worthless assets .
banks can swap the assets against guaranteed state loans for up to 20 years . the aim of the " bad bank " plan is to clean up lenders ' balance sheets and restore confidence in the financial sector .
the bill , drafted by finance minister peer steinbrueck , would enable banks to receive state guaranteed loans on commercial terms , in exchange for offloading their troubled assets .
through the government 's financial market stabilization fund , soffin , lenders would be able to swap toxic assets for guaranteed state loans worth 90 percent of the original value of the assets .
lenders would pay an annual fee and be able to " freeze " the assets until better times come along . after a maximum of 20 years , they would have to pay back any losses to the government .
some believe the german banks hold more than 200 billion euros of troubled assets .
" in the interests of the real economy , we are buying time so that the so-called toxic assets can be cleared up , " explained chancellor angela merkel 's chief of staff , thomas de maiziere .
what 's worthless today , may not be tomorrow bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : german finance minister peer steinbrueck says taxpayers will not foot the bill " it 's not clear how toxic these assets really are , " said finance expert , otto salms of the liberal free democrats -lrb- fdp -rrb- .
" some of these assets may well be worth more again once the crisis ends and the economy recovers .
if that 's the case , the banks may end up having to write off much less at a later date than they would if they were forced to liquidate these assets today . "
economic recovery and financial liquidity go hand in hand .
one of the factors that 's been driving the crisis around the world is that banks have stopped lending to each other because they have n't been able to assess the size of the financial black holes on each other 's balance sheets .
berlin hopes that by removing bad holdings from balance sheets banks will start lending to each other again , as well as to businesses and consumers .
this in turn would help kick-start the german economy , the biggest in europe , which is expected to shrink by six percent this year .
shareholders , not taxpayers , to bear the burden under the plan , which comes five months before a general election , any liabilities at the end of maturity would accrue to shareholders , and not to the taxpayer .
" it 's only right that whoever made profits through taking high risks over the years , must also be prepared to take the losses , " explained financial expert johannes kahrs , of the social democrats -lrb- spd -rrb- , the coalition partners of chancellor angela merkel 's christian democrats -lrb- cdu -rrb- . "
i think that 's reasonable , it 's a basic economic principle . "
some critics say the scheme is flawed because it is voluntary .
banks are not to be forced to dispose of toxic assets through the soffin national rescue program .
the government insists that " good banks " are interesting for investors and a cleaned up , reliable balance sheet will attract capital .
the draft legislation still has to go before both the lower and upper houses of parliament , the bundestag und bundesrat . wl / pfd / afp / ard send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de financial watchdog chief calls for " bad bank " for toxic assets the head of a watchdog committee of germany 's bank stabilization fund has called for the creation of a " bad bank " that could buy up toxic assets and unblock interbank lending .
-lrb- 11.01.2009 -rrb- us mortgage crisis hits german banks the battered subprime mortgage market in the united states is increasingly impacting the us economy .
now , losses from risky us home loans to borrowers with poor credit histories have swept across the atlantic .
-lrb- 31.07.2007 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic the german cabinet backs plan to relieve the country 's banks of their toxic assets radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit tagesthema we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive. tourism germany 's north sea coast boasts some of the longest and most attractive beaches in europe .
watch the video dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
italian suspect in german mob killings to be extradited to italy -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 05.12.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de crime -pipe- 13.05.2009 italian suspect in german mob killings to be extradited to italy großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : strangio has been top of the most-wanted lists both in germany and in italy giovanni strangio , an italian-born top suspect in a 2007 mafia shootout in germany , is to be extradited to italy , not germany , a dutch court ruled on wednesday . judge fred salomon said strangio , who was arrested in march in the netherlands , would be handed over to italian authorities because italy 's claim to the suspect was stronger than germany 's .
" the italian -lrb- extradition -rrb- request enjoys priority , " salomon said as he handed down the ruling in an amsterdam court . strangio , 30 , is an alleged leading member of the notorious southern italian mafia ' ndrangheta and one of the most wanted people in germany and italy .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the six victims in the duisburg mafia killings were shot in their cars he is suspected of being the ringleader of a shootout that left six rival clan members dead outside a pizzeria in duisburg , western germany , in august 2007 .
germany still wants strangio public prosecutors in duisburg had been trying to get strangio extradited to germany to try him in a local court .
but in recent weeks , it was widely expected that the dutch court would rule in favor of italy .
prosecutors in duisburg have agreed that strangio should be taken first to italy , spokesman detlef nowotsch said .
" we are stepping back for the time being , " nowotsch said .
" but that does n't mean that we do n't want strangio , " he added .
italy 's case for strangio stronger , judge says on wednesday , salomon said italy 's reasons for wanting to try strangio on home soil were more compelling than germany 's .
the judge said the german killings had been the result of clashes between rival clans in the italian town of san luca .
" therefore the relation with italy is bigger than the relation with duisburg where the crime took place , " salomon said .
the judge also pointed out that italy was seeking to prosecute strangio not only for the 2007 killings , but also for membership of a criminal organization .
" furthermore , all the victims had italian nationality , " he said .
strangio is to be transferred to italian custody from his dutch prison in the next 10 days .
killings draw attention to ' ndrangheta mafia the execution-style shootings in duisburg , which grabbed headlines in germany , stemmed from a feud between two rival clans .
the bloody crime drew international attention to the ' ndrangheta , a crime syndicate based in the southern italian region of calabria .
witnesses said they saw two attackers fire about 70 bullets at the six victims , aged 16 to 39 , as they were sitting in their cars after leaving the da bruno restaurant in the industrial city .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the killings outside the da bruno restaurant in duisburg sent shockwaves through germany the duisburg hit was believed to have been revenge for the 2006 christmas-time killing of maria strangio , a cousin of giovanni strangio and the wife of the head of the nirta-strangio clan , giovanni nirta , and the wounding of her son .
the battle between the rival clans has left 16 people dead since 1991 .
in march , an italian court jailed 31 people for the duisburg massacre , one of them for 13 years .
italy 's eurispes social studies institute has estimated ' ndrangheta 's turnover from trafficking in drugs and arms , prostitution and extortion in 2007 at 44 billion euros -lrb- $ 65 billion -rrb- .
strangio was arrested in march in the dutch town of diemen , after a lengthy probe involving telephone wire tapping , surveillance and close coordination between dutch , german and italian police . sp / pfd dpa / afp / reuters send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de dutch police arrest top suspect in duisburg mafia massacre dutch police have arrested an italian man named by authorities as the main suspect for the 2007 murder of six men outside a duisburg restaurant .
the man 's brother-in-law was also arrested during the operation .
-lrb- 13.03.2009 -rrb- police nab mafia boss tied to duisburg killings a suspected mafia boss who was implicated in the execution-style killings of six members of his clan in duisburg , germany , in 2007 , was finally tracked down in italy .
-lrb- 16.10.2008 -rrb- police arrest mafia boss with ties to duisburg massacre italian police arrested a wanted calabrian mafia boss who is the brother-in-law of a chief suspect in the august 2007 killings of six italians in duisburg , news reports said on thursday , aug .
7 .
-lrb- 07.08.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live in-box feedback from around the world listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
cannes rolls out the world 's most famous red carpet once again -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 06.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de film -pipe- 13.05.2009 cannes rolls out the world 's most famous red carpet once again großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : in a cannes first , an animated film opened the festival each may , a festival held on the french riviera draws a collection of the world 's leading cinema minds from all corners of the globe : the cannes film festival .
this year 's edition kicked off on wednesday . the 62nd gathering of cinema 's elite in the resort town of cannes , which sits on france 's mediterranean coast , remains one of the world 's most esteemed and prestigious film festivals .
to win the coveted palme d 'or prize for best film at cannes could be described as a crowning achievement for any producer , director , actor or film studio involved in the production .
unlike other well-known film festivals , such as those in berlin and venice , the focus at cannes is usually on aesthetics : beautiful cinema .
though this year 's 20 entries take on more brutal tones .
this includes american quentin tarantino 's ultra-violent " inglourious basterds , " about a group of bloodthirsty nazi hunters , and korean park chan wook 's priest-turned-vampire flick " bak-jwi " -lrb- " thirst " -rrb- , which has already been racing up the movie charts in his home country .
maverick danish director lars von trier also raises the horror notch this year with his " antichrist , " in which willem dafoe and charlotte gainsbourg find themselves confronting their inner fears and some dark forces in a deserted cabin in the woods .
bildunterschrift : german director wim wenders ' film " paris , texas " is a past winner at cannes german co-production this year also sees a motion picture from germany-born director michael haneke , who directed the 2001 palme d 'or-winning film " the piano teacher . "
his latest cannes entry , " das weisse band " -lrb- " the white ribbon " -rrb- , is set in a village in protestant northern germany in 1913 .
haneke 's tale recreates a country on the eve of world war i , told through the lives of members of a youth choir run by the village school teacher and their families .
little more has been written about the film , the result of haneke 's strict policy of silence in the lead up to his films ' openings .
the film was a joint production between studios in germany , france , austria and italy .
if " the white ribbon " finds success at cannes this year , it would not be the first german co-production to make a name for itself at the festival .
in 1979 , volker schloendorff 's screen adaptation of " die blechtrommel " -lrb- " the tin drum " -rrb- took the top prize , as did wim wenders ' 1984 film " paris , texas . "
new and old faces bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : de niro will always be remembered for his leading role in " taxi driver " these films went on to become part of cinematic history , as do most palme d 'or winners .
this venerated list includes francis ford coppola 's " apocalypse now , " bunuel 's " viridiana , " visconti 's " the leopard " and scorsese 's " taxi driver . "
this year , all eyes will be on 3-d comedy " up " from us director pete docter , which is the first animated film to open the 12-day festival .
the story features an old man who ties balloons to his house in the hope of fulfilling a boyhood dream of flying to south america .
meanwhile , a man bent on avenging the death of his daughter in hong kong director jonnie to 's " vengeance " is also screening , and seven years after shaking up a storm in cannes with his story of rape in " irreversible , " france 's gaspar noe is back at the festival with " enter the void " about a brutal murder .
belt tightening bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the glitterati wo n't be stopped by the financial crisis with the economic crisis having cut a swathe through the world film industry over the last year , filmmakers from hollywood through to bollywood have faced cost-cutting , studio layoffs and an ever more cautious army of producers and movie financiers .
already signs have emerged that the motion picture business has scaled back plans for the lavish parties and extravagant promotional events that have always been a feature of the festival .
but all bets are that whatever the economic climate , this year 's gathering is still likely to celebrate movie-making and the cult of the celebrity with considerable style and flair . dfm / pfd / dpa / afp / reuters send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de germany 's film industry celebrates banner year in 2008 german productions contributed decisively to a banner year in the nation 's film industry in 2008 , continuing last year 's upbeat trend .
-lrb- 05.02.2009 -rrb- lights , camera , action for kosslick as berlinale approaches armed with a mischievous smile and twinkling eyes , dieter kosslick revels in his role as the director of the berlinale , which kicks off this year with a film about the illegal machinations of an international bank .
-lrb- 03.02.2009 -rrb- german love triangle squares off at venice film festival " jerichow , " a love triangle by german director christian petzold , screened at the venice film festival , the first german entry competing for the golden lion since 2004 .
it faces strong competition from the us and italy .
-lrb- 29.08.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink news and perspectives from the heart of europe listen live food and drink taste europe 's highlights .
specialty beer from sylt oyster safari in denmark a meal in provence podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's new free podcast .
clip no. 1 - luis und laserpower clip no. 2 - abel & cain clip no. 3 - baby benzin clip no. 4 - the intersphere clip no. 5 - shantel subscribe on itunes get the rss feed word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
hits in germany concert hour music this week arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
cannes rolls out the world 's most famous red carpet once again -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 04.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de film -pipe- 13.05.2009 cannes rolls out the world 's most famous red carpet once again großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : in a cannes first , an animated film opened the festival each may , a festival held on the french riviera draws a collection of the world 's leading cinema minds from all corners of the globe : the cannes film festival .
this year 's edition kicked off on wednesday . the 62nd gathering of cinema 's elite in the resort town of cannes , which sits on france 's mediterranean coast , remains one of the world 's most esteemed and prestigious film festivals .
to win the coveted palme d 'or prize for best film at cannes could be described as a crowning achievement for any producer , director , actor or film studio involved in the production .
unlike other well-known film festivals , such as those in berlin and venice , the focus at cannes is usually on aesthetics : beautiful cinema .
though this year 's 20 entries take on more brutal tones .
this includes american quentin tarantino 's ultra-violent " inglourious basterds , " about a group of bloodthirsty nazi hunters , and korean park chan wook 's priest-turned-vampire flick " bak-jwi " -lrb- " thirst " -rrb- , which has already been racing up the movie charts in his home country .
maverick danish director lars von trier also raises the horror notch this year with his " antichrist , " in which willem dafoe and charlotte gainsbourg find themselves confronting their inner fears and some dark forces in a deserted cabin in the woods .
bildunterschrift : german director wim wenders ' film " paris , texas " is a past winner at cannes german co-production this year also sees a motion picture from germany-born director michael haneke , who directed the 2001 palme d 'or-winning film " the piano teacher . "
his latest cannes entry , " das weisse band " -lrb- " the white ribbon " -rrb- , is set in a village in protestant northern germany in 1913 .
haneke 's tale recreates a country on the eve of world war i , told through the lives of members of a youth choir run by the village school teacher and their families .
little more has been written about the film , the result of haneke 's strict policy of silence in the lead up to his films ' openings .
the film was a joint production between studios in germany , france , austria and italy .
if " the white ribbon " finds success at cannes this year , it would not be the first german co-production to make a name for itself at the festival .
in 1979 , volker schloendorff 's screen adaptation of " die blechtrommel " -lrb- " the tin drum " -rrb- took the top prize , as did wim wenders ' 1984 film " paris , texas . "
new and old faces bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : de niro will always be remembered for his leading role in " taxi driver " these films went on to become part of cinematic history , as do most palme d 'or winners .
this venerated list includes francis ford coppola 's " apocalypse now , " bunuel 's " viridiana , " visconti 's " the leopard " and scorsese 's " taxi driver . "
this year , all eyes will be on 3-d comedy " up " from us director pete docter , which is the first animated film to open the 12-day festival .
the story features an old man who ties balloons to his house in the hope of fulfilling a boyhood dream of flying to south america .
meanwhile , a man bent on avenging the death of his daughter in hong kong director jonnie to 's " vengeance " is also screening , and seven years after shaking up a storm in cannes with his story of rape in " irreversible , " france 's gaspar noe is back at the festival with " enter the void " about a brutal murder .
belt tightening bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the glitterati wo n't be stopped by the financial crisis with the economic crisis having cut a swathe through the world film industry over the last year , filmmakers from hollywood through to bollywood have faced cost-cutting , studio layoffs and an ever more cautious army of producers and movie financiers .
already signs have emerged that the motion picture business has scaled back plans for the lavish parties and extravagant promotional events that have always been a feature of the festival .
but all bets are that whatever the economic climate , this year 's gathering is still likely to celebrate movie-making and the cult of the celebrity with considerable style and flair . dfm / pfd / dpa / afp / reuters send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de germany 's film industry celebrates banner year in 2008 german productions contributed decisively to a banner year in the nation 's film industry in 2008 , continuing last year 's upbeat trend .
-lrb- 05.02.2009 -rrb- lights , camera , action for kosslick as berlinale approaches armed with a mischievous smile and twinkling eyes , dieter kosslick revels in his role as the director of the berlinale , which kicks off this year with a film about the illegal machinations of an international bank .
-lrb- 03.02.2009 -rrb- german love triangle squares off at venice film festival " jerichow , " a love triangle by german director christian petzold , screened at the venice film festival , the first german entry competing for the golden lion since 2004 .
it faces strong competition from the us and italy .
-lrb- 29.08.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
picture gallery christmas markets holiday cheer ís easy to come by during the advent season in germany .
travel explore some of europe 's most fascinating cities with dw-tv 's euromaxx .
athens , greece trieste , italy krakow , poland le mans , france tarragona , spain oslo , norway edinburgh , scotland dresden , germany podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's new free podcast .
' clip ' homepage clip no. 4 - the intersphere clip no. 5 - shantel clip no. 6 - klee clip no. 7 - einshoch6 subscribe on itunes get the rss feed word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
hits in germany concert hour music this week arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth music dw presents podcasts of performances by top artists at the 2010 beethovenfest .
podcasts on itunes more on beethoven © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
cannes rolls out the world 's most famous red carpet once again -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 26.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle music art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de film -pipe- 13.05.2009 cannes rolls out the world 's most famous red carpet once again großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : in a cannes first , an animated film opened the festival each may , a festival held on the french riviera draws a collection of the world 's leading cinema minds from all corners of the globe : the cannes film festival .
this year 's edition kicked off on wednesday . the 62nd gathering of cinema 's elite in the resort town of cannes , which sits on france 's mediterranean coast , remains one of the world 's most esteemed and prestigious film festivals .
to win the coveted palme d 'or prize for best film at cannes could be described as a crowning achievement for any producer , director , actor or film studio involved in the production .
unlike other well-known film festivals , such as those in berlin and venice , the focus at cannes is usually on aesthetics : beautiful cinema .
though this year 's 20 entries take on more brutal tones .
this includes american quentin tarantino 's ultra-violent " inglourious basterds , " about a group of bloodthirsty nazi hunters , and korean park chan wook 's priest-turned-vampire flick " bak-jwi " -lrb- " thirst " -rrb- , which has already been racing up the movie charts in his home country .
maverick danish director lars von trier also raises the horror notch this year with his " antichrist , " in which willem dafoe and charlotte gainsbourg find themselves confronting their inner fears and some dark forces in a deserted cabin in the woods .
bildunterschrift : german director wim wenders ' film " paris , texas " is a past winner at cannes german co-production this year also sees a motion picture from germany-born director michael haneke , who directed the 2001 palme d 'or-winning film " the piano teacher . "
his latest cannes entry , " das weisse band " -lrb- " the white ribbon " -rrb- , is set in a village in protestant northern germany in 1913 .
haneke 's tale recreates a country on the eve of world war i , told through the lives of members of a youth choir run by the village school teacher and their families .
little more has been written about the film , the result of haneke 's strict policy of silence in the lead up to his films ' openings .
the film was a joint production between studios in germany , france , austria and italy .
if " the white ribbon " finds success at cannes this year , it would not be the first german co-production to make a name for itself at the festival .
in 1979 , volker schloendorff 's screen adaptation of " die blechtrommel " -lrb- " the tin drum " -rrb- took the top prize , as did wim wenders ' 1984 film " paris , texas . "
new and old faces bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : de niro will always be remembered for his leading role in " taxi driver " these films went on to become part of cinematic history , as do most palme d 'or winners .
this venerated list includes francis ford coppola 's " apocalypse now , " bunuel 's " viridiana , " visconti 's " the leopard " and scorsese 's " taxi driver . "
this year , all eyes will be on 3-d comedy " up " from us director pete docter , which is the first animated film to open the 12-day festival .
the story features an old man who ties balloons to his house in the hope of fulfilling a boyhood dream of flying to south america .
meanwhile , a man bent on avenging the death of his daughter in hong kong director jonnie to 's " vengeance " is also screening , and seven years after shaking up a storm in cannes with his story of rape in " irreversible , " france 's gaspar noe is back at the festival with " enter the void " about a brutal murder .
belt tightening bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the glitterati wo n't be stopped by the financial crisis with the economic crisis having cut a swathe through the world film industry over the last year , filmmakers from hollywood through to bollywood have faced cost-cutting , studio layoffs and an ever more cautious army of producers and movie financiers .
already signs have emerged that the motion picture business has scaled back plans for the lavish parties and extravagant promotional events that have always been a feature of the festival .
but all bets are that whatever the economic climate , this year 's gathering is still likely to celebrate movie-making and the cult of the celebrity with considerable style and flair . dfm / pfd / dpa / afp / reuters send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de germany 's film industry celebrates banner year in 2008 german productions contributed decisively to a banner year in the nation 's film industry in 2008 , continuing last year 's upbeat trend .
-lrb- 05.02.2009 -rrb- lights , camera , action for kosslick as berlinale approaches armed with a mischievous smile and twinkling eyes , dieter kosslick revels in his role as the director of the berlinale , which kicks off this year with a film about the illegal machinations of an international bank .
-lrb- 03.02.2009 -rrb- german love triangle squares off at venice film festival " jerichow , " a love triangle by german director christian petzold , screened at the venice film festival , the first german entry competing for the golden lion since 2004 .
it faces strong competition from the us and italy .
-lrb- 29.08.2008 -rrb- media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
twitter follow dw culture keep up on europe 's culture and lifestyle scene .
travel take a close-up look at some of europe 's most exciting cities .
oxford , britain schwerin , germany las palmas , spain reykjavik , iceland darmstadt , germany podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's new free podcast .
' clip ' homepage clip no. 12 - favorite alt-rockers ja , panik are back subscribe on itunes get the rss feed word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
view from my window radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
soundscape 100 concert hour arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
cannes rolls out the world 's most famous red carpet once again -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 05.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de film -pipe- 13.05.2009 cannes rolls out the world 's most famous red carpet once again großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : in a cannes first , an animated film opened the festival each may , a festival held on the french riviera draws a collection of the world 's leading cinema minds from all corners of the globe : the cannes film festival .
this year 's edition kicked off on wednesday . the 62nd gathering of cinema 's elite in the resort town of cannes , which sits on france 's mediterranean coast , remains one of the world 's most esteemed and prestigious film festivals .
to win the coveted palme d 'or prize for best film at cannes could be described as a crowning achievement for any producer , director , actor or film studio involved in the production .
unlike other well-known film festivals , such as those in berlin and venice , the focus at cannes is usually on aesthetics : beautiful cinema .
though this year 's 20 entries take on more brutal tones .
this includes american quentin tarantino 's ultra-violent " inglourious basterds , " about a group of bloodthirsty nazi hunters , and korean park chan wook 's priest-turned-vampire flick " bak-jwi " -lrb- " thirst " -rrb- , which has already been racing up the movie charts in his home country .
maverick danish director lars von trier also raises the horror notch this year with his " antichrist , " in which willem dafoe and charlotte gainsbourg find themselves confronting their inner fears and some dark forces in a deserted cabin in the woods .
bildunterschrift : german director wim wenders ' film " paris , texas " is a past winner at cannes german co-production this year also sees a motion picture from germany-born director michael haneke , who directed the 2001 palme d 'or-winning film " the piano teacher . "
his latest cannes entry , " das weisse band " -lrb- " the white ribbon " -rrb- , is set in a village in protestant northern germany in 1913 .
haneke 's tale recreates a country on the eve of world war i , told through the lives of members of a youth choir run by the village school teacher and their families .
little more has been written about the film , the result of haneke 's strict policy of silence in the lead up to his films ' openings .
the film was a joint production between studios in germany , france , austria and italy .
if " the white ribbon " finds success at cannes this year , it would not be the first german co-production to make a name for itself at the festival .
in 1979 , volker schloendorff 's screen adaptation of " die blechtrommel " -lrb- " the tin drum " -rrb- took the top prize , as did wim wenders ' 1984 film " paris , texas . "
new and old faces bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : de niro will always be remembered for his leading role in " taxi driver " these films went on to become part of cinematic history , as do most palme d 'or winners .
this venerated list includes francis ford coppola 's " apocalypse now , " bunuel 's " viridiana , " visconti 's " the leopard " and scorsese 's " taxi driver . "
this year , all eyes will be on 3-d comedy " up " from us director pete docter , which is the first animated film to open the 12-day festival .
the story features an old man who ties balloons to his house in the hope of fulfilling a boyhood dream of flying to south america .
meanwhile , a man bent on avenging the death of his daughter in hong kong director jonnie to 's " vengeance " is also screening , and seven years after shaking up a storm in cannes with his story of rape in " irreversible , " france 's gaspar noe is back at the festival with " enter the void " about a brutal murder .
belt tightening bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the glitterati wo n't be stopped by the financial crisis with the economic crisis having cut a swathe through the world film industry over the last year , filmmakers from hollywood through to bollywood have faced cost-cutting , studio layoffs and an ever more cautious army of producers and movie financiers .
already signs have emerged that the motion picture business has scaled back plans for the lavish parties and extravagant promotional events that have always been a feature of the festival .
but all bets are that whatever the economic climate , this year 's gathering is still likely to celebrate movie-making and the cult of the celebrity with considerable style and flair . dfm / pfd / dpa / afp / reuters send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de germany 's film industry celebrates banner year in 2008 german productions contributed decisively to a banner year in the nation 's film industry in 2008 , continuing last year 's upbeat trend .
-lrb- 05.02.2009 -rrb- lights , camera , action for kosslick as berlinale approaches armed with a mischievous smile and twinkling eyes , dieter kosslick revels in his role as the director of the berlinale , which kicks off this year with a film about the illegal machinations of an international bank .
-lrb- 03.02.2009 -rrb- german love triangle squares off at venice film festival " jerichow , " a love triangle by german director christian petzold , screened at the venice film festival , the first german entry competing for the golden lion since 2004 .
it faces strong competition from the us and italy .
-lrb- 29.08.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live sports report listen live arts meet some of the people who are transforming germany 's ruhr region .
singer riccardo doppio graffiti artist danijel brekalo architect gabriele frielinghaus designer constanze alef photography an italian photo project aims to break down barriers between generations and cultures .
listen to the report picture gallery podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's new free podcast .
clip no. 1 - luis und laserpower clip no. 2 - abel & cain clip no. 3 - baby benzin clip no. 4 - the intersphere subscribe on itunes get the rss feed word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
hits in germany concert hour music this week arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
cannes rolls out the world 's most famous red carpet once again -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle music art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de film -pipe- 13.05.2009 cannes rolls out the world 's most famous red carpet once again großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : in a cannes first , an animated film opened the festival each may , a festival held on the french riviera draws a collection of the world 's leading cinema minds from all corners of the globe : the cannes film festival .
this year 's edition kicked off on wednesday . the 62nd gathering of cinema 's elite in the resort town of cannes , which sits on france 's mediterranean coast , remains one of the world 's most esteemed and prestigious film festivals .
to win the coveted palme d 'or prize for best film at cannes could be described as a crowning achievement for any producer , director , actor or film studio involved in the production .
unlike other well-known film festivals , such as those in berlin and venice , the focus at cannes is usually on aesthetics : beautiful cinema .
though this year 's 20 entries take on more brutal tones .
this includes american quentin tarantino 's ultra-violent " inglourious basterds , " about a group of bloodthirsty nazi hunters , and korean park chan wook 's priest-turned-vampire flick " bak-jwi " -lrb- " thirst " -rrb- , which has already been racing up the movie charts in his home country .
maverick danish director lars von trier also raises the horror notch this year with his " antichrist , " in which willem dafoe and charlotte gainsbourg find themselves confronting their inner fears and some dark forces in a deserted cabin in the woods .
bildunterschrift : german director wim wenders ' film " paris , texas " is a past winner at cannes german co-production this year also sees a motion picture from germany-born director michael haneke , who directed the 2001 palme d 'or-winning film " the piano teacher . "
his latest cannes entry , " das weisse band " -lrb- " the white ribbon " -rrb- , is set in a village in protestant northern germany in 1913 .
haneke 's tale recreates a country on the eve of world war i , told through the lives of members of a youth choir run by the village school teacher and their families .
little more has been written about the film , the result of haneke 's strict policy of silence in the lead up to his films ' openings .
the film was a joint production between studios in germany , france , austria and italy .
if " the white ribbon " finds success at cannes this year , it would not be the first german co-production to make a name for itself at the festival .
in 1979 , volker schloendorff 's screen adaptation of " die blechtrommel " -lrb- " the tin drum " -rrb- took the top prize , as did wim wenders ' 1984 film " paris , texas . "
new and old faces bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : de niro will always be remembered for his leading role in " taxi driver " these films went on to become part of cinematic history , as do most palme d 'or winners .
this venerated list includes francis ford coppola 's " apocalypse now , " bunuel 's " viridiana , " visconti 's " the leopard " and scorsese 's " taxi driver . "
this year , all eyes will be on 3-d comedy " up " from us director pete docter , which is the first animated film to open the 12-day festival .
the story features an old man who ties balloons to his house in the hope of fulfilling a boyhood dream of flying to south america .
meanwhile , a man bent on avenging the death of his daughter in hong kong director jonnie to 's " vengeance " is also screening , and seven years after shaking up a storm in cannes with his story of rape in " irreversible , " france 's gaspar noe is back at the festival with " enter the void " about a brutal murder .
belt tightening bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the glitterati wo n't be stopped by the financial crisis with the economic crisis having cut a swathe through the world film industry over the last year , filmmakers from hollywood through to bollywood have faced cost-cutting , studio layoffs and an ever more cautious army of producers and movie financiers .
already signs have emerged that the motion picture business has scaled back plans for the lavish parties and extravagant promotional events that have always been a feature of the festival .
but all bets are that whatever the economic climate , this year 's gathering is still likely to celebrate movie-making and the cult of the celebrity with considerable style and flair . dfm / pfd / dpa / afp / reuters send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de germany 's film industry celebrates banner year in 2008 german productions contributed decisively to a banner year in the nation 's film industry in 2008 , continuing last year 's upbeat trend .
-lrb- 05.02.2009 -rrb- lights , camera , action for kosslick as berlinale approaches armed with a mischievous smile and twinkling eyes , dieter kosslick revels in his role as the director of the berlinale , which kicks off this year with a film about the illegal machinations of an international bank .
-lrb- 03.02.2009 -rrb- german love triangle squares off at venice film festival " jerichow , " a love triangle by german director christian petzold , screened at the venice film festival , the first german entry competing for the golden lion since 2004 .
it faces strong competition from the us and italy .
-lrb- 29.08.2008 -rrb- media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
twitter follow dw culture keep up on europe 's culture and lifestyle scene .
podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's new free podcast .
' clip ' homepage clip no. 13 - get back to basics with the singer-songwriter rock of the alin coen band subscribe on itunes get the rss feed word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
view from my window radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
soundscape 100 concert hour arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
van gaal to become next bayern munich coach -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 06.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de soccer -pipe- 13.05.2009 van gaal to become next bayern munich coach großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : futuer bayern munich head coach louis van gaal bayern munich are set to sign dutch coach louis van gaal ending weeks of speculation over who will be in charge of the bundesliga soccer club next season . bayern munich have confirmed that dutch coach louis van gaal will join the defending bundesliga champions as head coach on a two-year contract as of july 1 .
he is to replace interim coach jupp heynkes , who took over after juergen klinsmann was fired last month .
the coach who has led az alkmaar to their first dutch league title since 1981 , had been bayern 's first choice for the job . other managers under consideration are said to have included inter manager jose mourinho and arsenal 's arsene wenger .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bayern chairman karl-heinz rummenigge munich pleased with choice " we are happy that in louis van gaal we have managed to secure such an experienced and successful coach for bayern munich , " said bayern chairman karl-heinz rummenigge in a statement posted on the club 's website on wednesday .
having steered ajax to the champions league title in 1995 , van gaal , 57 , has a wealth of experience having also led the giants from amsterdam to consecutive dutch titles in 1994 , 1995 and 1996 .
after leading barcelona to back-to-back spanish league titles in 1998 and 1999 , the only blip in an otherwise exceptional career was when he took charge of the netherlands in 2000 .
when the dutch failed to reach the world cup finals in japan and south korea in 2002 , he was replaced by dick advocaat .
van gaal inherits a squad that is level on points with bundesliga leaders wolfsburg with two games remaining in the season .
he is expected to be closely involved in transfer decisions at the end of this season .
in return for alkmaar agreeing to release van gaal before his contract expires , bayern have agreed to play a friendly against alkmaar in the summer of 2010 without charging a fee . nt / pfd , sid / reuters / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report bundesliga predictions round seven picks dw 's experts look over their fortunes in a bid to predict bundesliga week seven results .
scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results at a glance .
dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia moenchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
van gaal to become next bayern munich coach -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 04.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de soccer -pipe- 13.05.2009 van gaal to become next bayern munich coach großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : futuer bayern munich head coach louis van gaal bayern munich are set to sign dutch coach louis van gaal ending weeks of speculation over who will be in charge of the bundesliga soccer club next season . bayern munich have confirmed that dutch coach louis van gaal will join the defending bundesliga champions as head coach on a two-year contract as of july 1 .
he is to replace interim coach jupp heynkes , who took over after juergen klinsmann was fired last month .
the coach who has led az alkmaar to their first dutch league title since 1981 , had been bayern 's first choice for the job . other managers under consideration are said to have included inter manager jose mourinho and arsenal 's arsene wenger .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bayern chairman karl-heinz rummenigge munich pleased with choice " we are happy that in louis van gaal we have managed to secure such an experienced and successful coach for bayern munich , " said bayern chairman karl-heinz rummenigge in a statement posted on the club 's website on wednesday .
having steered ajax to the champions league title in 1995 , van gaal , 57 , has a wealth of experience having also led the giants from amsterdam to consecutive dutch titles in 1994 , 1995 and 1996 .
after leading barcelona to back-to-back spanish league titles in 1998 and 1999 , the only blip in an otherwise exceptional career was when he took charge of the netherlands in 2000 .
when the dutch failed to reach the world cup finals in japan and south korea in 2002 , he was replaced by dick advocaat .
van gaal inherits a squad that is level on points with bundesliga leaders wolfsburg with two games remaining in the season .
he is expected to be closely involved in transfer decisions at the end of this season .
in return for alkmaar agreeing to release van gaal before his contract expires , bayern have agreed to play a friendly against alkmaar in the summer of 2010 without charging a fee . nt / pfd , sid / reuters / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live bundesliga predictions bumpy progress dw 's soccer pundits are having their bumps felt in an attempt to predict match day 15 results .
dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report high scorer freiburg 's papiss demba cisse opens up to dw-tv 's bundesliga kick off ! about his goalscoring ways .
watch the report scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results at a glance .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia moenchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
van gaal to become next bayern munich coach -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 26.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de soccer -pipe- 13.05.2009 van gaal to become next bayern munich coach großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : futuer bayern munich head coach louis van gaal bayern munich are set to sign dutch coach louis van gaal ending weeks of speculation over who will be in charge of the bundesliga soccer club next season . bayern munich have confirmed that dutch coach louis van gaal will join the defending bundesliga champions as head coach on a two-year contract as of july 1 .
he is to replace interim coach jupp heynkes , who took over after juergen klinsmann was fired last month .
the coach who has led az alkmaar to their first dutch league title since 1981 , had been bayern 's first choice for the job . other managers under consideration are said to have included inter manager jose mourinho and arsenal 's arsene wenger .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bayern chairman karl-heinz rummenigge munich pleased with choice " we are happy that in louis van gaal we have managed to secure such an experienced and successful coach for bayern munich , " said bayern chairman karl-heinz rummenigge in a statement posted on the club 's website on wednesday .
having steered ajax to the champions league title in 1995 , van gaal , 57 , has a wealth of experience having also led the giants from amsterdam to consecutive dutch titles in 1994 , 1995 and 1996 .
after leading barcelona to back-to-back spanish league titles in 1998 and 1999 , the only blip in an otherwise exceptional career was when he took charge of the netherlands in 2000 .
when the dutch failed to reach the world cup finals in japan and south korea in 2002 , he was replaced by dick advocaat .
van gaal inherits a squad that is level on points with bundesliga leaders wolfsburg with two games remaining in the season .
he is expected to be closely involved in transfer decisions at the end of this season .
in return for alkmaar agreeing to release van gaal before his contract expires , bayern have agreed to play a friendly against alkmaar in the summer of 2010 without charging a fee . nt / pfd , sid / reuters / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ? dw-tv europe live european journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio listen to the latest from german soccer on dw-radio .
sports report national team live coverage !
follow @ dw _ sports on twitter for germany 's friendly against uruguay : may 29 , 17:45 utc .
scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
pope visits west bank , calls for palestinian statehood -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 09.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de religion -pipe- 13.05.2009 pope visits west bank , calls for palestinian statehood großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : palestinians gave an enthusiastic welcome to pope benedict during a visit to bethlehem , pope benedict xvi voiced support for palestinian aspirations of an independent homeland and said he hoped the wall that israel has erected in and around the west bank would come down . speaking in bethlehem after holding a mass in manger square , the pope pressed calls to remove the wall and watch towers that seal bethlehem off from jerusalem .
" towering over us ... is a stark reminder of the stalemate that relations between israelis and palestinians seem to have reached - the wall , " the pope said as he stood in the shadow of israel 's separation wall in the aida refugee camp , which houses refugees from israel 's creation in 1948 .
the pope said it 's " understandable that palestinians feel frustrated , " adding that " their legitimate aspirations for permanent homes , for an independent palestinian state , remain unfulfilled . "
the camp is home to around 5,000 refugees .
bildunterschrift : palestinian children at the aida refugee camp next to a poster of the pope " i have seen , ... overshadowing much of bethlehem , the wall that intrudes into your territories , separating neighbors and dividing families , " the pope said in the town believed to be the birthplace of jesus christ .
" although walls can be easily built , we all know that they do not last forever .
they can be taken down . "
pope lends support to palestinian statehood earlier , thousands greeted the pope 's black limousine as he made his way to manger square where he said mass for about 5,000 people next to the church of the nativity that marks the spot where christians believe jesus was born to mary in a stable .
one of the aims of the pope 's visit is to attempt to preserve a shrinking christian presence in the middle east .
the christian population of bethlehem has decreased dramatically in recent years through emigration . thousands of christians left the town after a palestinian uprising in 2000 and was met by an israeli security clampdown and the start of construction of the barrier .
the pope acknowledged israel 's security concerns as well as palestinian suffering , and urged people not to " resort to acts of violence or terrorism . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : pope benedict xvi outside of the church of the nativity in bethlehem the pope said his heart went out to those caught up in the conflict in gaza , adding that he was praying for an end to the israeli embargo of the gaza strip .
earlier , the pontiff told palestinian president mahmoud abbas that he backed the creation of a palestinian state .
" the holy see supports the right of your people to a sovereign palestinian homeland in the land of your forefathers , secure and at peace with your neighbors , within internationally recognized borders , " he said .
the pope 's comments are the vatican 's strongest and most symbolic public backing yet for an independent palestinian state .
the two-state solution is supported by abbas , arab nations and western powers .
but the new israeli prime minister , benjamin netanyahu , has declined so far to endorse it .
visit dogged by controversy the german-born pope 's week-long trip to the middle east , his first visit to the region , has not been without controversy .
on tuesday , a row erupted over the pope 's membership as a teenager of the hitler youth , as he paid a historic visit to holy sites in jerusalem .
vatican spokesman , federico lombardi , said the pontiff had " never , never , never " belonged to the organization , but later changed his version , saying that he had been a member but his membership was compulsory .
in his own 1997 memoirs , pope benedict had said he had been registered with the hitler youth while he was at a seminary .
the latest row comes on the heels of comments by some israeli leaders complaining that the pope did not go far enough in offering emotion in remarks he made on monday at the yad vashem memorial to the jewish dead of the holocaust . sp , pfd reuters / ap / dpa send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de pope continues balancing act on tour of holy sites in jerusalem pope benedict xvi became the first pope to enter a politically-charged shrine in jerusalem sacred to jews and muslims .
the pope continues to face criticism on the second day of a week-long visit to the region .
-lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- pope continues middle east tour as criticism of yad vashem speech grows pope benedict xvi used a service at jerusalem 's yad vashem memorial to express " deep compassion " for the victims of the holocaust .
but jewish leaders in germany and israel criticized the pope for not going far enough .
-lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- pope seeks to salve holocaust wounds pope benedict xvi is on his first trip to israel .
he has used a speech to seek to heal the wounds created by , among other things , his reinstatement of a holocaust-denying bishop .
-lrb- 11.05.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic pope benedict calls israel 's security barrier in the west bank " tragic " feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
pope visits west bank , calls for palestinian statehood -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 05.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de religion -pipe- 13.05.2009 pope visits west bank , calls for palestinian statehood großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : palestinians gave an enthusiastic welcome to pope benedict during a visit to bethlehem , pope benedict xvi voiced support for palestinian aspirations of an independent homeland and said he hoped the wall that israel has erected in and around the west bank would come down . speaking in bethlehem after holding a mass in manger square , the pope pressed calls to remove the wall and watch towers that seal bethlehem off from jerusalem .
" towering over us ... is a stark reminder of the stalemate that relations between israelis and palestinians seem to have reached - the wall , " the pope said as he stood in the shadow of israel 's separation wall in the aida refugee camp , which houses refugees from israel 's creation in 1948 .
the pope said it 's " understandable that palestinians feel frustrated , " adding that " their legitimate aspirations for permanent homes , for an independent palestinian state , remain unfulfilled . "
the camp is home to around 5,000 refugees .
bildunterschrift : palestinian children at the aida refugee camp next to a poster of the pope " i have seen , ... overshadowing much of bethlehem , the wall that intrudes into your territories , separating neighbors and dividing families , " the pope said in the town believed to be the birthplace of jesus christ .
" although walls can be easily built , we all know that they do not last forever .
they can be taken down . "
pope lends support to palestinian statehood earlier , thousands greeted the pope 's black limousine as he made his way to manger square where he said mass for about 5,000 people next to the church of the nativity that marks the spot where christians believe jesus was born to mary in a stable .
one of the aims of the pope 's visit is to attempt to preserve a shrinking christian presence in the middle east .
the christian population of bethlehem has decreased dramatically in recent years through emigration . thousands of christians left the town after a palestinian uprising in 2000 and was met by an israeli security clampdown and the start of construction of the barrier .
the pope acknowledged israel 's security concerns as well as palestinian suffering , and urged people not to " resort to acts of violence or terrorism . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : pope benedict xvi outside of the church of the nativity in bethlehem the pope said his heart went out to those caught up in the conflict in gaza , adding that he was praying for an end to the israeli embargo of the gaza strip .
earlier , the pontiff told palestinian president mahmoud abbas that he backed the creation of a palestinian state .
" the holy see supports the right of your people to a sovereign palestinian homeland in the land of your forefathers , secure and at peace with your neighbors , within internationally recognized borders , " he said .
the pope 's comments are the vatican 's strongest and most symbolic public backing yet for an independent palestinian state .
the two-state solution is supported by abbas , arab nations and western powers .
but the new israeli prime minister , benjamin netanyahu , has declined so far to endorse it .
visit dogged by controversy the german-born pope 's week-long trip to the middle east , his first visit to the region , has not been without controversy .
on tuesday , a row erupted over the pope 's membership as a teenager of the hitler youth , as he paid a historic visit to holy sites in jerusalem .
vatican spokesman , federico lombardi , said the pontiff had " never , never , never " belonged to the organization , but later changed his version , saying that he had been a member but his membership was compulsory .
in his own 1997 memoirs , pope benedict had said he had been registered with the hitler youth while he was at a seminary .
the latest row comes on the heels of comments by some israeli leaders complaining that the pope did not go far enough in offering emotion in remarks he made on monday at the yad vashem memorial to the jewish dead of the holocaust . sp , pfd reuters / ap / dpa send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de pope continues balancing act on tour of holy sites in jerusalem pope benedict xvi became the first pope to enter a politically-charged shrine in jerusalem sacred to jews and muslims .
the pope continues to face criticism on the second day of a week-long visit to the region .
-lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- pope continues middle east tour as criticism of yad vashem speech grows pope benedict xvi used a service at jerusalem 's yad vashem memorial to express " deep compassion " for the victims of the holocaust .
but jewish leaders in germany and israel criticized the pope for not going far enough .
-lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- pope seeks to salve holocaust wounds pope benedict xvi is on his first trip to israel .
he has used a speech to seek to heal the wounds created by , among other things , his reinstatement of a holocaust-denying bishop .
-lrb- 11.05.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic pope benedict calls israel 's security barrier in the west bank " tragic " feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
pope visits west bank , calls for palestinian statehood -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de religion -pipe- 13.05.2009 pope visits west bank , calls for palestinian statehood großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : palestinians gave an enthusiastic welcome to pope benedict during a visit to bethlehem , pope benedict xvi voiced support for palestinian aspirations of an independent homeland and said he hoped the wall that israel has erected in and around the west bank would come down . speaking in bethlehem after holding a mass in manger square , the pope pressed calls to remove the wall and watch towers that seal bethlehem off from jerusalem .
" towering over us ... is a stark reminder of the stalemate that relations between israelis and palestinians seem to have reached - the wall , " the pope said as he stood in the shadow of israel 's separation wall in the aida refugee camp , which houses refugees from israel 's creation in 1948 .
the pope said it 's " understandable that palestinians feel frustrated , " adding that " their legitimate aspirations for permanent homes , for an independent palestinian state , remain unfulfilled . "
the camp is home to around 5,000 refugees .
bildunterschrift : palestinian children at the aida refugee camp next to a poster of the pope " i have seen , ... overshadowing much of bethlehem , the wall that intrudes into your territories , separating neighbors and dividing families , " the pope said in the town believed to be the birthplace of jesus christ .
" although walls can be easily built , we all know that they do not last forever .
they can be taken down . "
pope lends support to palestinian statehood earlier , thousands greeted the pope 's black limousine as he made his way to manger square where he said mass for about 5,000 people next to the church of the nativity that marks the spot where christians believe jesus was born to mary in a stable .
one of the aims of the pope 's visit is to attempt to preserve a shrinking christian presence in the middle east .
the christian population of bethlehem has decreased dramatically in recent years through emigration . thousands of christians left the town after a palestinian uprising in 2000 and was met by an israeli security clampdown and the start of construction of the barrier .
the pope acknowledged israel 's security concerns as well as palestinian suffering , and urged people not to " resort to acts of violence or terrorism . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : pope benedict xvi outside of the church of the nativity in bethlehem the pope said his heart went out to those caught up in the conflict in gaza , adding that he was praying for an end to the israeli embargo of the gaza strip .
earlier , the pontiff told palestinian president mahmoud abbas that he backed the creation of a palestinian state .
" the holy see supports the right of your people to a sovereign palestinian homeland in the land of your forefathers , secure and at peace with your neighbors , within internationally recognized borders , " he said .
the pope 's comments are the vatican 's strongest and most symbolic public backing yet for an independent palestinian state .
the two-state solution is supported by abbas , arab nations and western powers .
but the new israeli prime minister , benjamin netanyahu , has declined so far to endorse it .
visit dogged by controversy the german-born pope 's week-long trip to the middle east , his first visit to the region , has not been without controversy .
on tuesday , a row erupted over the pope 's membership as a teenager of the hitler youth , as he paid a historic visit to holy sites in jerusalem .
vatican spokesman , federico lombardi , said the pontiff had " never , never , never " belonged to the organization , but later changed his version , saying that he had been a member but his membership was compulsory .
in his own 1997 memoirs , pope benedict had said he had been registered with the hitler youth while he was at a seminary .
the latest row comes on the heels of comments by some israeli leaders complaining that the pope did not go far enough in offering emotion in remarks he made on monday at the yad vashem memorial to the jewish dead of the holocaust . sp , pfd reuters / ap / dpa send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de pope continues balancing act on tour of holy sites in jerusalem pope benedict xvi became the first pope to enter a politically-charged shrine in jerusalem sacred to jews and muslims .
the pope continues to face criticism on the second day of a week-long visit to the region .
-lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- pope continues middle east tour as criticism of yad vashem speech grows pope benedict xvi used a service at jerusalem 's yad vashem memorial to express " deep compassion " for the victims of the holocaust .
but jewish leaders in germany and israel criticized the pope for not going far enough .
-lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- pope seeks to salve holocaust wounds pope benedict xvi is on his first trip to israel .
he has used a speech to seek to heal the wounds created by , among other things , his reinstatement of a holocaust-denying bishop .
-lrb- 11.05.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic pope benedict calls israel 's security barrier in the west bank " tragic " radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
pope visits west bank , calls for palestinian statehood -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de religion -pipe- 13.05.2009 pope visits west bank , calls for palestinian statehood großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : palestinians gave an enthusiastic welcome to pope benedict during a visit to bethlehem , pope benedict xvi voiced support for palestinian aspirations of an independent homeland and said he hoped the wall that israel has erected in and around the west bank would come down . speaking in bethlehem after holding a mass in manger square , the pope pressed calls to remove the wall and watch towers that seal bethlehem off from jerusalem .
" towering over us ... is a stark reminder of the stalemate that relations between israelis and palestinians seem to have reached - the wall , " the pope said as he stood in the shadow of israel 's separation wall in the aida refugee camp , which houses refugees from israel 's creation in 1948 .
the pope said it 's " understandable that palestinians feel frustrated , " adding that " their legitimate aspirations for permanent homes , for an independent palestinian state , remain unfulfilled . "
the camp is home to around 5,000 refugees .
bildunterschrift : palestinian children at the aida refugee camp next to a poster of the pope " i have seen , ... overshadowing much of bethlehem , the wall that intrudes into your territories , separating neighbors and dividing families , " the pope said in the town believed to be the birthplace of jesus christ .
" although walls can be easily built , we all know that they do not last forever .
they can be taken down . "
pope lends support to palestinian statehood earlier , thousands greeted the pope 's black limousine as he made his way to manger square where he said mass for about 5,000 people next to the church of the nativity that marks the spot where christians believe jesus was born to mary in a stable .
one of the aims of the pope 's visit is to attempt to preserve a shrinking christian presence in the middle east .
the christian population of bethlehem has decreased dramatically in recent years through emigration . thousands of christians left the town after a palestinian uprising in 2000 and was met by an israeli security clampdown and the start of construction of the barrier .
the pope acknowledged israel 's security concerns as well as palestinian suffering , and urged people not to " resort to acts of violence or terrorism . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : pope benedict xvi outside of the church of the nativity in bethlehem the pope said his heart went out to those caught up in the conflict in gaza , adding that he was praying for an end to the israeli embargo of the gaza strip .
earlier , the pontiff told palestinian president mahmoud abbas that he backed the creation of a palestinian state .
" the holy see supports the right of your people to a sovereign palestinian homeland in the land of your forefathers , secure and at peace with your neighbors , within internationally recognized borders , " he said .
the pope 's comments are the vatican 's strongest and most symbolic public backing yet for an independent palestinian state .
the two-state solution is supported by abbas , arab nations and western powers .
but the new israeli prime minister , benjamin netanyahu , has declined so far to endorse it .
visit dogged by controversy the german-born pope 's week-long trip to the middle east , his first visit to the region , has not been without controversy .
on tuesday , a row erupted over the pope 's membership as a teenager of the hitler youth , as he paid a historic visit to holy sites in jerusalem .
vatican spokesman , federico lombardi , said the pontiff had " never , never , never " belonged to the organization , but later changed his version , saying that he had been a member but his membership was compulsory .
in his own 1997 memoirs , pope benedict had said he had been registered with the hitler youth while he was at a seminary .
the latest row comes on the heels of comments by some israeli leaders complaining that the pope did not go far enough in offering emotion in remarks he made on monday at the yad vashem memorial to the jewish dead of the holocaust . sp , pfd reuters / ap / dpa send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de pope continues balancing act on tour of holy sites in jerusalem pope benedict xvi became the first pope to enter a politically-charged shrine in jerusalem sacred to jews and muslims .
the pope continues to face criticism on the second day of a week-long visit to the region .
-lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- pope continues middle east tour as criticism of yad vashem speech grows pope benedict xvi used a service at jerusalem 's yad vashem memorial to express " deep compassion " for the victims of the holocaust .
but jewish leaders in germany and israel criticized the pope for not going far enough .
-lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- pope seeks to salve holocaust wounds pope benedict xvi is on his first trip to israel .
he has used a speech to seek to heal the wounds created by , among other things , his reinstatement of a holocaust-denying bishop .
-lrb- 11.05.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic pope benedict calls israel 's security barrier in the west bank " tragic " feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
cannes rolls out the world 's most famous red carpet once again -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 26.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de film -pipe- 13.05.2009 cannes rolls out the world 's most famous red carpet once again großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : in a cannes first , an animated film opened the festival each may , a festival held on the french riviera draws a collection of the world 's leading cinema minds from all corners of the globe : the cannes film festival .
this year 's edition kicked off on wednesday . the 62nd gathering of cinema 's elite in the resort town of cannes , which sits on france 's mediterranean coast , remains one of the world 's most esteemed and prestigious film festivals .
to win the coveted palme d 'or prize for best film at cannes could be described as a crowning achievement for any producer , director , actor or film studio involved in the production .
unlike other well-known film festivals , such as those in berlin and venice , the focus at cannes is usually on aesthetics : beautiful cinema .
though this year 's 20 entries take on more brutal tones .
this includes american quentin tarantino 's ultra-violent " inglourious basterds , " about a group of bloodthirsty nazi hunters , and korean park chan wook 's priest-turned-vampire flick " bak-jwi " -lrb- " thirst " -rrb- , which has already been racing up the movie charts in his home country .
maverick danish director lars von trier also raises the horror notch this year with his " antichrist , " in which willem dafoe and charlotte gainsbourg find themselves confronting their inner fears and some dark forces in a deserted cabin in the woods .
bildunterschrift : german director wim wenders ' film " paris , texas " is a past winner at cannes german co-production this year also sees a motion picture from germany-born director michael haneke , who directed the 2001 palme d 'or-winning film " the piano teacher . "
his latest cannes entry , " das weisse band " -lrb- " the white ribbon " -rrb- , is set in a village in protestant northern germany in 1913 .
haneke 's tale recreates a country on the eve of world war i , told through the lives of members of a youth choir run by the village school teacher and their families .
little more has been written about the film , the result of haneke 's strict policy of silence in the lead up to his films ' openings .
the film was a joint production between studios in germany , france , austria and italy .
if " the white ribbon " finds success at cannes this year , it would not be the first german co-production to make a name for itself at the festival .
in 1979 , volker schloendorff 's screen adaptation of " die blechtrommel " -lrb- " the tin drum " -rrb- took the top prize , as did wim wenders ' 1984 film " paris , texas . "
new and old faces bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : de niro will always be remembered for his leading role in " taxi driver " these films went on to become part of cinematic history , as do most palme d 'or winners .
this venerated list includes francis ford coppola 's " apocalypse now , " bunuel 's " viridiana , " visconti 's " the leopard " and scorsese 's " taxi driver . "
this year , all eyes will be on 3-d comedy " up " from us director pete docter , which is the first animated film to open the 12-day festival .
the story features an old man who ties balloons to his house in the hope of fulfilling a boyhood dream of flying to south america .
meanwhile , a man bent on avenging the death of his daughter in hong kong director jonnie to 's " vengeance " is also screening , and seven years after shaking up a storm in cannes with his story of rape in " irreversible , " france 's gaspar noe is back at the festival with " enter the void " about a brutal murder .
belt tightening bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the glitterati wo n't be stopped by the financial crisis with the economic crisis having cut a swathe through the world film industry over the last year , filmmakers from hollywood through to bollywood have faced cost-cutting , studio layoffs and an ever more cautious army of producers and movie financiers .
already signs have emerged that the motion picture business has scaled back plans for the lavish parties and extravagant promotional events that have always been a feature of the festival .
but all bets are that whatever the economic climate , this year 's gathering is still likely to celebrate movie-making and the cult of the celebrity with considerable style and flair . dfm / pfd / dpa / afp / reuters send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de germany 's film industry celebrates banner year in 2008 german productions contributed decisively to a banner year in the nation 's film industry in 2008 , continuing last year 's upbeat trend .
-lrb- 05.02.2009 -rrb- lights , camera , action for kosslick as berlinale approaches armed with a mischievous smile and twinkling eyes , dieter kosslick revels in his role as the director of the berlinale , which kicks off this year with a film about the illegal machinations of an international bank .
-lrb- 03.02.2009 -rrb- german love triangle squares off at venice film festival " jerichow , " a love triangle by german director christian petzold , screened at the venice film festival , the first german entry competing for the golden lion since 2004 .
it faces strong competition from the us and italy .
-lrb- 29.08.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live world in progress development in a globalized world listen live picture gallery fat and felt nearly 25 years after his death , joseph beuys is remembered for his broad view of art .
travel explore some of germany 's most spectacular historic castles .
marksburg albrechtsburg castle hohenzollern castle dw-tv : euromaxx podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's new free podcast .
clip no. 1 - luis und laserpower clip no. 2 - abel & cain clip no. 3 - baby benzin clip no. 4 - the intersphere subscribe on itunes get the rss feed word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
hits in germany concert hour music this week arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
cannes rolls out the world 's most famous red carpet once again -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de film -pipe- 13.05.2009 cannes rolls out the world 's most famous red carpet once again großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : in a cannes first , an animated film opened the festival each may , a festival held on the french riviera draws a collection of the world 's leading cinema minds from all corners of the globe : the cannes film festival .
this year 's edition kicked off on wednesday . the 62nd gathering of cinema 's elite in the resort town of cannes , which sits on france 's mediterranean coast , remains one of the world 's most esteemed and prestigious film festivals .
to win the coveted palme d 'or prize for best film at cannes could be described as a crowning achievement for any producer , director , actor or film studio involved in the production .
unlike other well-known film festivals , such as those in berlin and venice , the focus at cannes is usually on aesthetics : beautiful cinema .
though this year 's 20 entries take on more brutal tones .
this includes american quentin tarantino 's ultra-violent " inglourious basterds , " about a group of bloodthirsty nazi hunters , and korean park chan wook 's priest-turned-vampire flick " bak-jwi " -lrb- " thirst " -rrb- , which has already been racing up the movie charts in his home country .
maverick danish director lars von trier also raises the horror notch this year with his " antichrist , " in which willem dafoe and charlotte gainsbourg find themselves confronting their inner fears and some dark forces in a deserted cabin in the woods .
bildunterschrift : german director wim wenders ' film " paris , texas " is a past winner at cannes german co-production this year also sees a motion picture from germany-born director michael haneke , who directed the 2001 palme d 'or-winning film " the piano teacher . "
his latest cannes entry , " das weisse band " -lrb- " the white ribbon " -rrb- , is set in a village in protestant northern germany in 1913 .
haneke 's tale recreates a country on the eve of world war i , told through the lives of members of a youth choir run by the village school teacher and their families .
little more has been written about the film , the result of haneke 's strict policy of silence in the lead up to his films ' openings .
the film was a joint production between studios in germany , france , austria and italy .
if " the white ribbon " finds success at cannes this year , it would not be the first german co-production to make a name for itself at the festival .
in 1979 , volker schloendorff 's screen adaptation of " die blechtrommel " -lrb- " the tin drum " -rrb- took the top prize , as did wim wenders ' 1984 film " paris , texas . "
new and old faces bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : de niro will always be remembered for his leading role in " taxi driver " these films went on to become part of cinematic history , as do most palme d 'or winners .
this venerated list includes francis ford coppola 's " apocalypse now , " bunuel 's " viridiana , " visconti 's " the leopard " and scorsese 's " taxi driver . "
this year , all eyes will be on 3-d comedy " up " from us director pete docter , which is the first animated film to open the 12-day festival .
the story features an old man who ties balloons to his house in the hope of fulfilling a boyhood dream of flying to south america .
meanwhile , a man bent on avenging the death of his daughter in hong kong director jonnie to 's " vengeance " is also screening , and seven years after shaking up a storm in cannes with his story of rape in " irreversible , " france 's gaspar noe is back at the festival with " enter the void " about a brutal murder .
belt tightening bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the glitterati wo n't be stopped by the financial crisis with the economic crisis having cut a swathe through the world film industry over the last year , filmmakers from hollywood through to bollywood have faced cost-cutting , studio layoffs and an ever more cautious army of producers and movie financiers .
already signs have emerged that the motion picture business has scaled back plans for the lavish parties and extravagant promotional events that have always been a feature of the festival .
but all bets are that whatever the economic climate , this year 's gathering is still likely to celebrate movie-making and the cult of the celebrity with considerable style and flair . dfm / pfd / dpa / afp / reuters send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de germany 's film industry celebrates banner year in 2008 german productions contributed decisively to a banner year in the nation 's film industry in 2008 , continuing last year 's upbeat trend .
-lrb- 05.02.2009 -rrb- lights , camera , action for kosslick as berlinale approaches armed with a mischievous smile and twinkling eyes , dieter kosslick revels in his role as the director of the berlinale , which kicks off this year with a film about the illegal machinations of an international bank .
-lrb- 03.02.2009 -rrb- german love triangle squares off at venice film festival " jerichow , " a love triangle by german director christian petzold , screened at the venice film festival , the first german entry competing for the golden lion since 2004 .
it faces strong competition from the us and italy .
-lrb- 29.08.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's new free podcast .
' clip ' homepage clip no. 6 - klee clip no. 7 - einshoch6 clip no. 8 - johannes stankowski clip no. 9 - the bonny situation subscribe on itunes get the rss feed word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
hits in germany concert hour music this week arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth music dw presents podcasts of performances by top artists at the 2010 beethovenfest .
podcasts on itunes more on beethoven news quiz test your knowledge with the news quiz ! © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
cannes rolls out the world 's most famous red carpet once again -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 14.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle music art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de film -pipe- 13.05.2009 cannes rolls out the world 's most famous red carpet once again großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : in a cannes first , an animated film opened the festival each may , a festival held on the french riviera draws a collection of the world 's leading cinema minds from all corners of the globe : the cannes film festival .
this year 's edition kicked off on wednesday . the 62nd gathering of cinema 's elite in the resort town of cannes , which sits on france 's mediterranean coast , remains one of the world 's most esteemed and prestigious film festivals .
to win the coveted palme d 'or prize for best film at cannes could be described as a crowning achievement for any producer , director , actor or film studio involved in the production .
unlike other well-known film festivals , such as those in berlin and venice , the focus at cannes is usually on aesthetics : beautiful cinema .
though this year 's 20 entries take on more brutal tones .
this includes american quentin tarantino 's ultra-violent " inglourious basterds , " about a group of bloodthirsty nazi hunters , and korean park chan wook 's priest-turned-vampire flick " bak-jwi " -lrb- " thirst " -rrb- , which has already been racing up the movie charts in his home country .
maverick danish director lars von trier also raises the horror notch this year with his " antichrist , " in which willem dafoe and charlotte gainsbourg find themselves confronting their inner fears and some dark forces in a deserted cabin in the woods .
bildunterschrift : german director wim wenders ' film " paris , texas " is a past winner at cannes german co-production this year also sees a motion picture from germany-born director michael haneke , who directed the 2001 palme d 'or-winning film " the piano teacher . "
his latest cannes entry , " das weisse band " -lrb- " the white ribbon " -rrb- , is set in a village in protestant northern germany in 1913 .
haneke 's tale recreates a country on the eve of world war i , told through the lives of members of a youth choir run by the village school teacher and their families .
little more has been written about the film , the result of haneke 's strict policy of silence in the lead up to his films ' openings .
the film was a joint production between studios in germany , france , austria and italy .
if " the white ribbon " finds success at cannes this year , it would not be the first german co-production to make a name for itself at the festival .
in 1979 , volker schloendorff 's screen adaptation of " die blechtrommel " -lrb- " the tin drum " -rrb- took the top prize , as did wim wenders ' 1984 film " paris , texas . "
new and old faces bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : de niro will always be remembered for his leading role in " taxi driver " these films went on to become part of cinematic history , as do most palme d 'or winners .
this venerated list includes francis ford coppola 's " apocalypse now , " bunuel 's " viridiana , " visconti 's " the leopard " and scorsese 's " taxi driver . "
this year , all eyes will be on 3-d comedy " up " from us director pete docter , which is the first animated film to open the 12-day festival .
the story features an old man who ties balloons to his house in the hope of fulfilling a boyhood dream of flying to south america .
meanwhile , a man bent on avenging the death of his daughter in hong kong director jonnie to 's " vengeance " is also screening , and seven years after shaking up a storm in cannes with his story of rape in " irreversible , " france 's gaspar noe is back at the festival with " enter the void " about a brutal murder .
belt tightening bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the glitterati wo n't be stopped by the financial crisis with the economic crisis having cut a swathe through the world film industry over the last year , filmmakers from hollywood through to bollywood have faced cost-cutting , studio layoffs and an ever more cautious army of producers and movie financiers .
already signs have emerged that the motion picture business has scaled back plans for the lavish parties and extravagant promotional events that have always been a feature of the festival .
but all bets are that whatever the economic climate , this year 's gathering is still likely to celebrate movie-making and the cult of the celebrity with considerable style and flair . dfm / pfd / dpa / afp / reuters send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de germany 's film industry celebrates banner year in 2008 german productions contributed decisively to a banner year in the nation 's film industry in 2008 , continuing last year 's upbeat trend .
-lrb- 05.02.2009 -rrb- lights , camera , action for kosslick as berlinale approaches armed with a mischievous smile and twinkling eyes , dieter kosslick revels in his role as the director of the berlinale , which kicks off this year with a film about the illegal machinations of an international bank .
-lrb- 03.02.2009 -rrb- german love triangle squares off at venice film festival " jerichow , " a love triangle by german director christian petzold , screened at the venice film festival , the first german entry competing for the golden lion since 2004 .
it faces strong competition from the us and italy .
-lrb- 29.08.2008 -rrb- 9801 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
twitter follow dw culture keep up on europe 's culture and lifestyle scene .
culture calendar july happenings from wagner to world music - find out what 's going on in germany 's cultural scene .
recent picture galleries car fetish exhibition berlin fashion week day of the kiss ai weiwei , the photographer podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's free podcast series .
somewhere between poet and singer : meet hans unstern ' german pop ' homepage word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
view from my window radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
soundscape 100 concert hour arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
van gaal to become next bayern munich coach -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 20.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de soccer -pipe- 13.05.2009 van gaal to become next bayern munich coach großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : futuer bayern munich head coach louis van gaal bayern munich are set to sign dutch coach louis van gaal ending weeks of speculation over who will be in charge of the bundesliga soccer club next season . bayern munich have confirmed that dutch coach louis van gaal will join the defending bundesliga champions as head coach on a two-year contract as of july 1 .
he is to replace interim coach jupp heynkes , who took over after juergen klinsmann was fired last month .
the coach who has led az alkmaar to their first dutch league title since 1981 , had been bayern 's first choice for the job . other managers under consideration are said to have included inter manager jose mourinho and arsenal 's arsene wenger .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bayern chairman karl-heinz rummenigge munich pleased with choice " we are happy that in louis van gaal we have managed to secure such an experienced and successful coach for bayern munich , " said bayern chairman karl-heinz rummenigge in a statement posted on the club 's website on wednesday .
having steered ajax to the champions league title in 1995 , van gaal , 57 , has a wealth of experience having also led the giants from amsterdam to consecutive dutch titles in 1994 , 1995 and 1996 .
after leading barcelona to back-to-back spanish league titles in 1998 and 1999 , the only blip in an otherwise exceptional career was when he took charge of the netherlands in 2000 .
when the dutch failed to reach the world cup finals in japan and south korea in 2002 , he was replaced by dick advocaat .
van gaal inherits a squad that is level on points with bundesliga leaders wolfsburg with two games remaining in the season .
he is expected to be closely involved in transfer decisions at the end of this season .
in return for alkmaar agreeing to release van gaal before his contract expires , bayern have agreed to play a friendly against alkmaar in the summer of 2010 without charging a fee . nt / pfd , sid / reuters / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live radio d listen live dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report bundesliga predictions the results gurus dw 's soccer pundits attempt to predict match day 13 's results while achieving spiritual nirvana .
scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results at a glance .
dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia moenchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
van gaal to become next bayern munich coach -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 23.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de soccer -pipe- 13.05.2009 van gaal to become next bayern munich coach großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : futuer bayern munich head coach louis van gaal bayern munich are set to sign dutch coach louis van gaal ending weeks of speculation over who will be in charge of the bundesliga soccer club next season . bayern munich have confirmed that dutch coach louis van gaal will join the defending bundesliga champions as head coach on a two-year contract as of july 1 .
he is to replace interim coach jupp heynkes , who took over after juergen klinsmann was fired last month .
the coach who has led az alkmaar to their first dutch league title since 1981 , had been bayern 's first choice for the job . other managers under consideration are said to have included inter manager jose mourinho and arsenal 's arsene wenger .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bayern chairman karl-heinz rummenigge munich pleased with choice " we are happy that in louis van gaal we have managed to secure such an experienced and successful coach for bayern munich , " said bayern chairman karl-heinz rummenigge in a statement posted on the club 's website on wednesday .
having steered ajax to the champions league title in 1995 , van gaal , 57 , has a wealth of experience having also led the giants from amsterdam to consecutive dutch titles in 1994 , 1995 and 1996 .
after leading barcelona to back-to-back spanish league titles in 1998 and 1999 , the only blip in an otherwise exceptional career was when he took charge of the netherlands in 2000 .
when the dutch failed to reach the world cup finals in japan and south korea in 2002 , he was replaced by dick advocaat .
van gaal inherits a squad that is level on points with bundesliga leaders wolfsburg with two games remaining in the season .
he is expected to be closely involved in transfer decisions at the end of this season .
in return for alkmaar agreeing to release van gaal before his contract expires , bayern have agreed to play a friendly against alkmaar in the summer of 2010 without charging a fee . nt / pfd , sid / reuters / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 dw-tv europe live made in germany we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report high scorer freiburg 's papiss demba cisse opens up to dw-tv 's bundesliga kick off ! about his goalscoring ways .
watch the report scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results at a glance .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia moenchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
van gaal to become next bayern munich coach -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de soccer -pipe- 13.05.2009 van gaal to become next bayern munich coach großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : futuer bayern munich head coach louis van gaal bayern munich are set to sign dutch coach louis van gaal ending weeks of speculation over who will be in charge of the bundesliga soccer club next season . bayern munich have confirmed that dutch coach louis van gaal will join the defending bundesliga champions as head coach on a two-year contract as of july 1 .
he is to replace interim coach jupp heynkes , who took over after juergen klinsmann was fired last month .
the coach who has led az alkmaar to their first dutch league title since 1981 , had been bayern 's first choice for the job . other managers under consideration are said to have included inter manager jose mourinho and arsenal 's arsene wenger .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bayern chairman karl-heinz rummenigge munich pleased with choice " we are happy that in louis van gaal we have managed to secure such an experienced and successful coach for bayern munich , " said bayern chairman karl-heinz rummenigge in a statement posted on the club 's website on wednesday .
having steered ajax to the champions league title in 1995 , van gaal , 57 , has a wealth of experience having also led the giants from amsterdam to consecutive dutch titles in 1994 , 1995 and 1996 .
after leading barcelona to back-to-back spanish league titles in 1998 and 1999 , the only blip in an otherwise exceptional career was when he took charge of the netherlands in 2000 .
when the dutch failed to reach the world cup finals in japan and south korea in 2002 , he was replaced by dick advocaat .
van gaal inherits a squad that is level on points with bundesliga leaders wolfsburg with two games remaining in the season .
he is expected to be closely involved in transfer decisions at the end of this season .
in return for alkmaar agreeing to release van gaal before his contract expires , bayern have agreed to play a friendly against alkmaar in the summer of 2010 without charging a fee . nt / pfd , sid / reuters / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live concert hour listen live dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report bundesliga predictions bundesliga picks dw 's experts consult the football stars in a bid to predict the bundesliga match day eight results .
scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results at a glance .
dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia moenchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
van gaal to become next bayern munich coach -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 20.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de soccer -pipe- 13.05.2009 van gaal to become next bayern munich coach großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : futuer bayern munich head coach louis van gaal bayern munich are set to sign dutch coach louis van gaal ending weeks of speculation over who will be in charge of the bundesliga soccer club next season . bayern munich have confirmed that dutch coach louis van gaal will join the defending bundesliga champions as head coach on a two-year contract as of july 1 .
he is to replace interim coach jupp heynkes , who took over after juergen klinsmann was fired last month .
the coach who has led az alkmaar to their first dutch league title since 1981 , had been bayern 's first choice for the job . other managers under consideration are said to have included inter manager jose mourinho and arsenal 's arsene wenger .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bayern chairman karl-heinz rummenigge munich pleased with choice " we are happy that in louis van gaal we have managed to secure such an experienced and successful coach for bayern munich , " said bayern chairman karl-heinz rummenigge in a statement posted on the club 's website on wednesday .
having steered ajax to the champions league title in 1995 , van gaal , 57 , has a wealth of experience having also led the giants from amsterdam to consecutive dutch titles in 1994 , 1995 and 1996 .
after leading barcelona to back-to-back spanish league titles in 1998 and 1999 , the only blip in an otherwise exceptional career was when he took charge of the netherlands in 2000 .
when the dutch failed to reach the world cup finals in japan and south korea in 2002 , he was replaced by dick advocaat .
van gaal inherits a squad that is level on points with bundesliga leaders wolfsburg with two games remaining in the season .
he is expected to be closely involved in transfer decisions at the end of this season .
in return for alkmaar agreeing to release van gaal before his contract expires , bayern have agreed to play a friendly against alkmaar in the summer of 2010 without charging a fee . nt / pfd , sid / reuters / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ? 9801 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio listen to the latest from german soccer on dw-radio .
sports report scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results .
dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
van gaal to become next bayern munich coach -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 15.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de soccer -pipe- 13.05.2009 van gaal to become next bayern munich coach großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : futuer bayern munich head coach louis van gaal bayern munich are set to sign dutch coach louis van gaal ending weeks of speculation over who will be in charge of the bundesliga soccer club next season . bayern munich have confirmed that dutch coach louis van gaal will join the defending bundesliga champions as head coach on a two-year contract as of july 1 .
he is to replace interim coach jupp heynkes , who took over after juergen klinsmann was fired last month .
the coach who has led az alkmaar to their first dutch league title since 1981 , had been bayern 's first choice for the job . other managers under consideration are said to have included inter manager jose mourinho and arsenal 's arsene wenger .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bayern chairman karl-heinz rummenigge munich pleased with choice " we are happy that in louis van gaal we have managed to secure such an experienced and successful coach for bayern munich , " said bayern chairman karl-heinz rummenigge in a statement posted on the club 's website on wednesday .
having steered ajax to the champions league title in 1995 , van gaal , 57 , has a wealth of experience having also led the giants from amsterdam to consecutive dutch titles in 1994 , 1995 and 1996 .
after leading barcelona to back-to-back spanish league titles in 1998 and 1999 , the only blip in an otherwise exceptional career was when he took charge of the netherlands in 2000 .
when the dutch failed to reach the world cup finals in japan and south korea in 2002 , he was replaced by dick advocaat .
van gaal inherits a squad that is level on points with bundesliga leaders wolfsburg with two games remaining in the season .
he is expected to be closely involved in transfer decisions at the end of this season .
in return for alkmaar agreeing to release van gaal before his contract expires , bayern have agreed to play a friendly against alkmaar in the summer of 2010 without charging a fee . nt / pfd , sid / reuters / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live pulse listen live dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report new feature week three picks dw sports sizes up the week three match-ups in the bundesliga .
and hopes to pick a couple right .
scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results at a glance .
dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia moenchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
van gaal to become next bayern munich coach -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 25.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de soccer -pipe- 13.05.2009 van gaal to become next bayern munich coach großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : futuer bayern munich head coach louis van gaal bayern munich are set to sign dutch coach louis van gaal ending weeks of speculation over who will be in charge of the bundesliga soccer club next season . bayern munich have confirmed that dutch coach louis van gaal will join the defending bundesliga champions as head coach on a two-year contract as of july 1 .
he is to replace interim coach jupp heynkes , who took over after juergen klinsmann was fired last month .
the coach who has led az alkmaar to their first dutch league title since 1981 , had been bayern 's first choice for the job . other managers under consideration are said to have included inter manager jose mourinho and arsenal 's arsene wenger .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bayern chairman karl-heinz rummenigge munich pleased with choice " we are happy that in louis van gaal we have managed to secure such an experienced and successful coach for bayern munich , " said bayern chairman karl-heinz rummenigge in a statement posted on the club 's website on wednesday .
having steered ajax to the champions league title in 1995 , van gaal , 57 , has a wealth of experience having also led the giants from amsterdam to consecutive dutch titles in 1994 , 1995 and 1996 .
after leading barcelona to back-to-back spanish league titles in 1998 and 1999 , the only blip in an otherwise exceptional career was when he took charge of the netherlands in 2000 .
when the dutch failed to reach the world cup finals in japan and south korea in 2002 , he was replaced by dick advocaat .
van gaal inherits a squad that is level on points with bundesliga leaders wolfsburg with two games remaining in the season .
he is expected to be closely involved in transfer decisions at the end of this season .
in return for alkmaar agreeing to release van gaal before his contract expires , bayern have agreed to play a friendly against alkmaar in the summer of 2010 without charging a fee . nt / pfd , sid / reuters / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results at a glance .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia moenchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
van gaal to become next bayern munich coach -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de soccer -pipe- 13.05.2009 van gaal to become next bayern munich coach großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : futuer bayern munich head coach louis van gaal bayern munich are set to sign dutch coach louis van gaal ending weeks of speculation over who will be in charge of the bundesliga soccer club next season . bayern munich have confirmed that dutch coach louis van gaal will join the defending bundesliga champions as head coach on a two-year contract as of july 1 .
he is to replace interim coach jupp heynkes , who took over after juergen klinsmann was fired last month .
the coach who has led az alkmaar to their first dutch league title since 1981 , had been bayern 's first choice for the job . other managers under consideration are said to have included inter manager jose mourinho and arsenal 's arsene wenger .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bayern chairman karl-heinz rummenigge munich pleased with choice " we are happy that in louis van gaal we have managed to secure such an experienced and successful coach for bayern munich , " said bayern chairman karl-heinz rummenigge in a statement posted on the club 's website on wednesday .
having steered ajax to the champions league title in 1995 , van gaal , 57 , has a wealth of experience having also led the giants from amsterdam to consecutive dutch titles in 1994 , 1995 and 1996 .
after leading barcelona to back-to-back spanish league titles in 1998 and 1999 , the only blip in an otherwise exceptional career was when he took charge of the netherlands in 2000 .
when the dutch failed to reach the world cup finals in japan and south korea in 2002 , he was replaced by dick advocaat .
van gaal inherits a squad that is level on points with bundesliga leaders wolfsburg with two games remaining in the season .
he is expected to be closely involved in transfer decisions at the end of this season .
in return for alkmaar agreeing to release van gaal before his contract expires , bayern have agreed to play a friendly against alkmaar in the summer of 2010 without charging a fee . nt / pfd , sid / reuters / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ? 9801 dw-tv europe live made in germany - das wirtschaftsmagazin we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live spectrum more efficient nuclear power , qr code coins , a chemicals in space and the future of nasa 's employees listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-radio listen to the latest from german soccer on dw-radio .
sports report anti-racism girls wanted : scouting for germany 's next generation of female football talent listen to the audio art women 's football - a source of inspiration watch the video video women 's soccer is more popular than ever in the us .
watch the video final standings click here for the final 2010-11 bundesliga table . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
italian suspect in german mob killings to be extradited to italy -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 26.01.2011 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de crime -pipe- 13.05.2009 italian suspect in german mob killings to be extradited to italy großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : strangio has been top of the most-wanted lists both in germany and in italy giovanni strangio , an italian-born top suspect in a 2007 mafia shootout in germany , is to be extradited to italy , not germany , a dutch court ruled on wednesday . judge fred salomon said strangio , who was arrested in march in the netherlands , would be handed over to italian authorities because italy 's claim to the suspect was stronger than germany 's .
" the italian -lrb- extradition -rrb- request enjoys priority , " salomon said as he handed down the ruling in an amsterdam court . strangio , 30 , is an alleged leading member of the notorious southern italian mafia ' ndrangheta and one of the most wanted people in germany and italy .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the six victims in the duisburg mafia killings were shot in their cars he is suspected of being the ringleader of a shootout that left six rival clan members dead outside a pizzeria in duisburg , western germany , in august 2007 .
germany still wants strangio public prosecutors in duisburg had been trying to get strangio extradited to germany to try him in a local court .
but in recent weeks , it was widely expected that the dutch court would rule in favor of italy .
prosecutors in duisburg have agreed that strangio should be taken first to italy , spokesman detlef nowotsch said .
" we are stepping back for the time being , " nowotsch said .
" but that does n't mean that we do n't want strangio , " he added .
italy 's case for strangio stronger , judge says on wednesday , salomon said italy 's reasons for wanting to try strangio on home soil were more compelling than germany 's .
the judge said the german killings had been the result of clashes between rival clans in the italian town of san luca .
" therefore the relation with italy is bigger than the relation with duisburg where the crime took place , " salomon said .
the judge also pointed out that italy was seeking to prosecute strangio not only for the 2007 killings , but also for membership of a criminal organization .
" furthermore , all the victims had italian nationality , " he said .
strangio is to be transferred to italian custody from his dutch prison in the next 10 days .
killings draw attention to ' ndrangheta mafia the execution-style shootings in duisburg , which grabbed headlines in germany , stemmed from a feud between two rival clans .
the bloody crime drew international attention to the ' ndrangheta , a crime syndicate based in the southern italian region of calabria .
witnesses said they saw two attackers fire about 70 bullets at the six victims , aged 16 to 39 , as they were sitting in their cars after leaving the da bruno restaurant in the industrial city .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the killings outside the da bruno restaurant in duisburg sent shockwaves through germany the duisburg hit was believed to have been revenge for the 2006 christmas-time killing of maria strangio , a cousin of giovanni strangio and the wife of the head of the nirta-strangio clan , giovanni nirta , and the wounding of her son .
the battle between the rival clans has left 16 people dead since 1991 .
in march , an italian court jailed 31 people for the duisburg massacre , one of them for 13 years .
italy 's eurispes social studies institute has estimated ' ndrangheta 's turnover from trafficking in drugs and arms , prostitution and extortion in 2007 at 44 billion euros -lrb- $ 65 billion -rrb- .
strangio was arrested in march in the dutch town of diemen , after a lengthy probe involving telephone wire tapping , surveillance and close coordination between dutch , german and italian police . sp / pfd dpa / afp / reuters send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de dutch police arrest top suspect in duisburg mafia massacre dutch police have arrested an italian man named by authorities as the main suspect for the 2007 murder of six men outside a duisburg restaurant .
the man 's brother-in-law was also arrested during the operation .
-lrb- 13.03.2009 -rrb- police nab mafia boss tied to duisburg killings a suspected mafia boss who was implicated in the execution-style killings of six members of his clan in duisburg , germany , in 2007 , was finally tracked down in italy .
-lrb- 16.10.2008 -rrb- police arrest mafia boss with ties to duisburg massacre italian police arrested a wanted calabrian mafia boss who is the brother-in-law of a chief suspect in the august 2007 killings of six italians in duisburg , news reports said on thursday , aug .
7 .
-lrb- 07.08.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink news and perspectives from the heart of europe listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
italians hard hit by plastic bag ban east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
italian suspect in german mob killings to be extradited to italy -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 21.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de crime -pipe- 13.05.2009 italian suspect in german mob killings to be extradited to italy großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : strangio has been top of the most-wanted lists both in germany and in italy giovanni strangio , an italian-born top suspect in a 2007 mafia shootout in germany , is to be extradited to italy , not germany , a dutch court ruled on wednesday . judge fred salomon said strangio , who was arrested in march in the netherlands , would be handed over to italian authorities because italy 's claim to the suspect was stronger than germany 's .
" the italian -lrb- extradition -rrb- request enjoys priority , " salomon said as he handed down the ruling in an amsterdam court . strangio , 30 , is an alleged leading member of the notorious southern italian mafia ' ndrangheta and one of the most wanted people in germany and italy .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the six victims in the duisburg mafia killings were shot in their cars he is suspected of being the ringleader of a shootout that left six rival clan members dead outside a pizzeria in duisburg , western germany , in august 2007 .
germany still wants strangio public prosecutors in duisburg had been trying to get strangio extradited to germany to try him in a local court .
but in recent weeks , it was widely expected that the dutch court would rule in favor of italy .
prosecutors in duisburg have agreed that strangio should be taken first to italy , spokesman detlef nowotsch said .
" we are stepping back for the time being , " nowotsch said .
" but that does n't mean that we do n't want strangio , " he added .
italy 's case for strangio stronger , judge says on wednesday , salomon said italy 's reasons for wanting to try strangio on home soil were more compelling than germany 's .
the judge said the german killings had been the result of clashes between rival clans in the italian town of san luca .
" therefore the relation with italy is bigger than the relation with duisburg where the crime took place , " salomon said .
the judge also pointed out that italy was seeking to prosecute strangio not only for the 2007 killings , but also for membership of a criminal organization .
" furthermore , all the victims had italian nationality , " he said .
strangio is to be transferred to italian custody from his dutch prison in the next 10 days .
killings draw attention to ' ndrangheta mafia the execution-style shootings in duisburg , which grabbed headlines in germany , stemmed from a feud between two rival clans .
the bloody crime drew international attention to the ' ndrangheta , a crime syndicate based in the southern italian region of calabria .
witnesses said they saw two attackers fire about 70 bullets at the six victims , aged 16 to 39 , as they were sitting in their cars after leaving the da bruno restaurant in the industrial city .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the killings outside the da bruno restaurant in duisburg sent shockwaves through germany the duisburg hit was believed to have been revenge for the 2006 christmas-time killing of maria strangio , a cousin of giovanni strangio and the wife of the head of the nirta-strangio clan , giovanni nirta , and the wounding of her son .
the battle between the rival clans has left 16 people dead since 1991 .
in march , an italian court jailed 31 people for the duisburg massacre , one of them for 13 years .
italy 's eurispes social studies institute has estimated ' ndrangheta 's turnover from trafficking in drugs and arms , prostitution and extortion in 2007 at 44 billion euros -lrb- $ 65 billion -rrb- .
strangio was arrested in march in the dutch town of diemen , after a lengthy probe involving telephone wire tapping , surveillance and close coordination between dutch , german and italian police . sp / pfd dpa / afp / reuters send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de dutch police arrest top suspect in duisburg mafia massacre dutch police have arrested an italian man named by authorities as the main suspect for the 2007 murder of six men outside a duisburg restaurant .
the man 's brother-in-law was also arrested during the operation .
-lrb- 13.03.2009 -rrb- police nab mafia boss tied to duisburg killings a suspected mafia boss who was implicated in the execution-style killings of six members of his clan in duisburg , germany , in 2007 , was finally tracked down in italy .
-lrb- 16.10.2008 -rrb- police arrest mafia boss with ties to duisburg massacre italian police arrested a wanted calabrian mafia boss who is the brother-in-law of a chief suspect in the august 2007 killings of six italians in duisburg , news reports said on thursday , aug .
7 .
-lrb- 07.08.2008 -rrb- 9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
european ties the queen 's visit has proved to be a landmark in relations between the uk and ireland .
watch the video russia a moscow court postpones an appeal hearing in the case of former oil tycoon mikhail khodorkovsky .
listen to the audio health uk practioners are taking the eu to court over a ban on chinese herbal medicines .
listen to the audio postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
french burqa ban fits secular ideals is berlusconi giving italy a bad name ?
a dubious record for belgium inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
italian suspect in german mob killings to be extradited to italy -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 21.11.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de crime -pipe- 13.05.2009 italian suspect in german mob killings to be extradited to italy großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : strangio has been top of the most-wanted lists both in germany and in italy giovanni strangio , an italian-born top suspect in a 2007 mafia shootout in germany , is to be extradited to italy , not germany , a dutch court ruled on wednesday . judge fred salomon said strangio , who was arrested in march in the netherlands , would be handed over to italian authorities because italy 's claim to the suspect was stronger than germany 's .
" the italian -lrb- extradition -rrb- request enjoys priority , " salomon said as he handed down the ruling in an amsterdam court . strangio , 30 , is an alleged leading member of the notorious southern italian mafia ' ndrangheta and one of the most wanted people in germany and italy .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the six victims in the duisburg mafia killings were shot in their cars he is suspected of being the ringleader of a shootout that left six rival clan members dead outside a pizzeria in duisburg , western germany , in august 2007 .
germany still wants strangio public prosecutors in duisburg had been trying to get strangio extradited to germany to try him in a local court .
but in recent weeks , it was widely expected that the dutch court would rule in favor of italy .
prosecutors in duisburg have agreed that strangio should be taken first to italy , spokesman detlef nowotsch said .
" we are stepping back for the time being , " nowotsch said .
" but that does n't mean that we do n't want strangio , " he added .
italy 's case for strangio stronger , judge says on wednesday , salomon said italy 's reasons for wanting to try strangio on home soil were more compelling than germany 's .
the judge said the german killings had been the result of clashes between rival clans in the italian town of san luca .
" therefore the relation with italy is bigger than the relation with duisburg where the crime took place , " salomon said .
the judge also pointed out that italy was seeking to prosecute strangio not only for the 2007 killings , but also for membership of a criminal organization .
" furthermore , all the victims had italian nationality , " he said .
strangio is to be transferred to italian custody from his dutch prison in the next 10 days .
killings draw attention to ' ndrangheta mafia the execution-style shootings in duisburg , which grabbed headlines in germany , stemmed from a feud between two rival clans .
the bloody crime drew international attention to the ' ndrangheta , a crime syndicate based in the southern italian region of calabria .
witnesses said they saw two attackers fire about 70 bullets at the six victims , aged 16 to 39 , as they were sitting in their cars after leaving the da bruno restaurant in the industrial city .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the killings outside the da bruno restaurant in duisburg sent shockwaves through germany the duisburg hit was believed to have been revenge for the 2006 christmas-time killing of maria strangio , a cousin of giovanni strangio and the wife of the head of the nirta-strangio clan , giovanni nirta , and the wounding of her son .
the battle between the rival clans has left 16 people dead since 1991 .
in march , an italian court jailed 31 people for the duisburg massacre , one of them for 13 years .
italy 's eurispes social studies institute has estimated ' ndrangheta 's turnover from trafficking in drugs and arms , prostitution and extortion in 2007 at 44 billion euros -lrb- $ 65 billion -rrb- .
strangio was arrested in march in the dutch town of diemen , after a lengthy probe involving telephone wire tapping , surveillance and close coordination between dutch , german and italian police . sp / pfd dpa / afp / reuters send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de dutch police arrest top suspect in duisburg mafia massacre dutch police have arrested an italian man named by authorities as the main suspect for the 2007 murder of six men outside a duisburg restaurant .
the man 's brother-in-law was also arrested during the operation .
-lrb- 13.03.2009 -rrb- police nab mafia boss tied to duisburg killings a suspected mafia boss who was implicated in the execution-style killings of six members of his clan in duisburg , germany , in 2007 , was finally tracked down in italy .
-lrb- 16.10.2008 -rrb- police arrest mafia boss with ties to duisburg massacre italian police arrested a wanted calabrian mafia boss who is the brother-in-law of a chief suspect in the august 2007 killings of six italians in duisburg , news reports said on thursday , aug .
7 .
-lrb- 07.08.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live im focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live concert hour leipzig 2 listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
italian suspect in german mob killings to be extradited to italy -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.10.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de crime -pipe- 13.05.2009 italian suspect in german mob killings to be extradited to italy großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : strangio has been top of the most-wanted lists both in germany and in italy giovanni strangio , an italian-born top suspect in a 2007 mafia shootout in germany , is to be extradited to italy , not germany , a dutch court ruled on wednesday . judge fred salomon said strangio , who was arrested in march in the netherlands , would be handed over to italian authorities because italy 's claim to the suspect was stronger than germany 's .
" the italian -lrb- extradition -rrb- request enjoys priority , " salomon said as he handed down the ruling in an amsterdam court . strangio , 30 , is an alleged leading member of the notorious southern italian mafia ' ndrangheta and one of the most wanted people in germany and italy .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the six victims in the duisburg mafia killings were shot in their cars he is suspected of being the ringleader of a shootout that left six rival clan members dead outside a pizzeria in duisburg , western germany , in august 2007 .
germany still wants strangio public prosecutors in duisburg had been trying to get strangio extradited to germany to try him in a local court .
but in recent weeks , it was widely expected that the dutch court would rule in favor of italy .
prosecutors in duisburg have agreed that strangio should be taken first to italy , spokesman detlef nowotsch said .
" we are stepping back for the time being , " nowotsch said .
" but that does n't mean that we do n't want strangio , " he added .
italy 's case for strangio stronger , judge says on wednesday , salomon said italy 's reasons for wanting to try strangio on home soil were more compelling than germany 's .
the judge said the german killings had been the result of clashes between rival clans in the italian town of san luca .
" therefore the relation with italy is bigger than the relation with duisburg where the crime took place , " salomon said .
the judge also pointed out that italy was seeking to prosecute strangio not only for the 2007 killings , but also for membership of a criminal organization .
" furthermore , all the victims had italian nationality , " he said .
strangio is to be transferred to italian custody from his dutch prison in the next 10 days .
killings draw attention to ' ndrangheta mafia the execution-style shootings in duisburg , which grabbed headlines in germany , stemmed from a feud between two rival clans .
the bloody crime drew international attention to the ' ndrangheta , a crime syndicate based in the southern italian region of calabria .
witnesses said they saw two attackers fire about 70 bullets at the six victims , aged 16 to 39 , as they were sitting in their cars after leaving the da bruno restaurant in the industrial city .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the killings outside the da bruno restaurant in duisburg sent shockwaves through germany the duisburg hit was believed to have been revenge for the 2006 christmas-time killing of maria strangio , a cousin of giovanni strangio and the wife of the head of the nirta-strangio clan , giovanni nirta , and the wounding of her son .
the battle between the rival clans has left 16 people dead since 1991 .
in march , an italian court jailed 31 people for the duisburg massacre , one of them for 13 years .
italy 's eurispes social studies institute has estimated ' ndrangheta 's turnover from trafficking in drugs and arms , prostitution and extortion in 2007 at 44 billion euros -lrb- $ 65 billion -rrb- .
strangio was arrested in march in the dutch town of diemen , after a lengthy probe involving telephone wire tapping , surveillance and close coordination between dutch , german and italian police . sp / pfd dpa / afp / reuters send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de dutch police arrest top suspect in duisburg mafia massacre dutch police have arrested an italian man named by authorities as the main suspect for the 2007 murder of six men outside a duisburg restaurant .
the man 's brother-in-law was also arrested during the operation .
-lrb- 13.03.2009 -rrb- police nab mafia boss tied to duisburg killings a suspected mafia boss who was implicated in the execution-style killings of six members of his clan in duisburg , germany , in 2007 , was finally tracked down in italy .
-lrb- 16.10.2008 -rrb- police arrest mafia boss with ties to duisburg massacre italian police arrested a wanted calabrian mafia boss who is the brother-in-law of a chief suspect in the august 2007 killings of six italians in duisburg , news reports said on thursday , aug .
7 .
-lrb- 07.08.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live in focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live spectrum listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
quo vadis bosnia ?
betancourt book sparks controversy in france technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
italian suspect in german mob killings to be extradited to italy -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.09.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de crime -pipe- 13.05.2009 italian suspect in german mob killings to be extradited to italy großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : strangio has been top of the most-wanted lists both in germany and in italy giovanni strangio , an italian-born top suspect in a 2007 mafia shootout in germany , is to be extradited to italy , not germany , a dutch court ruled on wednesday . judge fred salomon said strangio , who was arrested in march in the netherlands , would be handed over to italian authorities because italy 's claim to the suspect was stronger than germany 's .
" the italian -lrb- extradition -rrb- request enjoys priority , " salomon said as he handed down the ruling in an amsterdam court . strangio , 30 , is an alleged leading member of the notorious southern italian mafia ' ndrangheta and one of the most wanted people in germany and italy .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the six victims in the duisburg mafia killings were shot in their cars he is suspected of being the ringleader of a shootout that left six rival clan members dead outside a pizzeria in duisburg , western germany , in august 2007 .
germany still wants strangio public prosecutors in duisburg had been trying to get strangio extradited to germany to try him in a local court .
but in recent weeks , it was widely expected that the dutch court would rule in favor of italy .
prosecutors in duisburg have agreed that strangio should be taken first to italy , spokesman detlef nowotsch said .
" we are stepping back for the time being , " nowotsch said .
" but that does n't mean that we do n't want strangio , " he added .
italy 's case for strangio stronger , judge says on wednesday , salomon said italy 's reasons for wanting to try strangio on home soil were more compelling than germany 's .
the judge said the german killings had been the result of clashes between rival clans in the italian town of san luca .
" therefore the relation with italy is bigger than the relation with duisburg where the crime took place , " salomon said .
the judge also pointed out that italy was seeking to prosecute strangio not only for the 2007 killings , but also for membership of a criminal organization .
" furthermore , all the victims had italian nationality , " he said .
strangio is to be transferred to italian custody from his dutch prison in the next 10 days .
killings draw attention to ' ndrangheta mafia the execution-style shootings in duisburg , which grabbed headlines in germany , stemmed from a feud between two rival clans .
the bloody crime drew international attention to the ' ndrangheta , a crime syndicate based in the southern italian region of calabria .
witnesses said they saw two attackers fire about 70 bullets at the six victims , aged 16 to 39 , as they were sitting in their cars after leaving the da bruno restaurant in the industrial city .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the killings outside the da bruno restaurant in duisburg sent shockwaves through germany the duisburg hit was believed to have been revenge for the 2006 christmas-time killing of maria strangio , a cousin of giovanni strangio and the wife of the head of the nirta-strangio clan , giovanni nirta , and the wounding of her son .
the battle between the rival clans has left 16 people dead since 1991 .
in march , an italian court jailed 31 people for the duisburg massacre , one of them for 13 years .
italy 's eurispes social studies institute has estimated ' ndrangheta 's turnover from trafficking in drugs and arms , prostitution and extortion in 2007 at 44 billion euros -lrb- $ 65 billion -rrb- .
strangio was arrested in march in the dutch town of diemen , after a lengthy probe involving telephone wire tapping , surveillance and close coordination between dutch , german and italian police . sp / pfd dpa / afp / reuters send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de dutch police arrest top suspect in duisburg mafia massacre dutch police have arrested an italian man named by authorities as the main suspect for the 2007 murder of six men outside a duisburg restaurant .
the man 's brother-in-law was also arrested during the operation .
-lrb- 13.03.2009 -rrb- police nab mafia boss tied to duisburg killings a suspected mafia boss who was implicated in the execution-style killings of six members of his clan in duisburg , germany , in 2007 , was finally tracked down in italy .
-lrb- 16.10.2008 -rrb- police arrest mafia boss with ties to duisburg massacre italian police arrested a wanted calabrian mafia boss who is the brother-in-law of a chief suspect in the august 2007 killings of six italians in duisburg , news reports said on thursday , aug .
7 .
-lrb- 07.08.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live popxport we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live hits in germany pop from the german top 100 listen live people natascha kampusch , the austrian who was kept prisoner from age 10 to 18 , publishes her autobigraphy .
listen to the report postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket are the gay games necessary ?
love parade - the end of an era oracle paul takes the plunge europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
italian suspect in german mob killings to be extradited to italy -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 23.12.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de crime -pipe- 13.05.2009 italian suspect in german mob killings to be extradited to italy großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : strangio has been top of the most-wanted lists both in germany and in italy giovanni strangio , an italian-born top suspect in a 2007 mafia shootout in germany , is to be extradited to italy , not germany , a dutch court ruled on wednesday . judge fred salomon said strangio , who was arrested in march in the netherlands , would be handed over to italian authorities because italy 's claim to the suspect was stronger than germany 's .
" the italian -lrb- extradition -rrb- request enjoys priority , " salomon said as he handed down the ruling in an amsterdam court . strangio , 30 , is an alleged leading member of the notorious southern italian mafia ' ndrangheta and one of the most wanted people in germany and italy .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the six victims in the duisburg mafia killings were shot in their cars he is suspected of being the ringleader of a shootout that left six rival clan members dead outside a pizzeria in duisburg , western germany , in august 2007 .
germany still wants strangio public prosecutors in duisburg had been trying to get strangio extradited to germany to try him in a local court .
but in recent weeks , it was widely expected that the dutch court would rule in favor of italy .
prosecutors in duisburg have agreed that strangio should be taken first to italy , spokesman detlef nowotsch said .
" we are stepping back for the time being , " nowotsch said .
" but that does n't mean that we do n't want strangio , " he added .
italy 's case for strangio stronger , judge says on wednesday , salomon said italy 's reasons for wanting to try strangio on home soil were more compelling than germany 's .
the judge said the german killings had been the result of clashes between rival clans in the italian town of san luca .
" therefore the relation with italy is bigger than the relation with duisburg where the crime took place , " salomon said .
the judge also pointed out that italy was seeking to prosecute strangio not only for the 2007 killings , but also for membership of a criminal organization .
" furthermore , all the victims had italian nationality , " he said .
strangio is to be transferred to italian custody from his dutch prison in the next 10 days .
killings draw attention to ' ndrangheta mafia the execution-style shootings in duisburg , which grabbed headlines in germany , stemmed from a feud between two rival clans .
the bloody crime drew international attention to the ' ndrangheta , a crime syndicate based in the southern italian region of calabria .
witnesses said they saw two attackers fire about 70 bullets at the six victims , aged 16 to 39 , as they were sitting in their cars after leaving the da bruno restaurant in the industrial city .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the killings outside the da bruno restaurant in duisburg sent shockwaves through germany the duisburg hit was believed to have been revenge for the 2006 christmas-time killing of maria strangio , a cousin of giovanni strangio and the wife of the head of the nirta-strangio clan , giovanni nirta , and the wounding of her son .
the battle between the rival clans has left 16 people dead since 1991 .
in march , an italian court jailed 31 people for the duisburg massacre , one of them for 13 years .
italy 's eurispes social studies institute has estimated ' ndrangheta 's turnover from trafficking in drugs and arms , prostitution and extortion in 2007 at 44 billion euros -lrb- $ 65 billion -rrb- .
strangio was arrested in march in the dutch town of diemen , after a lengthy probe involving telephone wire tapping , surveillance and close coordination between dutch , german and italian police . sp / pfd dpa / afp / reuters send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de dutch police arrest top suspect in duisburg mafia massacre dutch police have arrested an italian man named by authorities as the main suspect for the 2007 murder of six men outside a duisburg restaurant .
the man 's brother-in-law was also arrested during the operation .
-lrb- 13.03.2009 -rrb- police nab mafia boss tied to duisburg killings a suspected mafia boss who was implicated in the execution-style killings of six members of his clan in duisburg , germany , in 2007 , was finally tracked down in italy .
-lrb- 16.10.2008 -rrb- police arrest mafia boss with ties to duisburg massacre italian police arrested a wanted calabrian mafia boss who is the brother-in-law of a chief suspect in the august 2007 killings of six italians in duisburg , news reports said on thursday , aug .
7 .
-lrb- 07.08.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle quo vadis bosnia ?
betancourt book sparks controversy in france technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
italian suspect in german mob killings to be extradited to italy -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 14.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de crime -pipe- 13.05.2009 italian suspect in german mob killings to be extradited to italy großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : strangio has been top of the most-wanted lists both in germany and in italy giovanni strangio , an italian-born top suspect in a 2007 mafia shootout in germany , is to be extradited to italy , not germany , a dutch court ruled on wednesday . judge fred salomon said strangio , who was arrested in march in the netherlands , would be handed over to italian authorities because italy 's claim to the suspect was stronger than germany 's .
" the italian -lrb- extradition -rrb- request enjoys priority , " salomon said as he handed down the ruling in an amsterdam court . strangio , 30 , is an alleged leading member of the notorious southern italian mafia ' ndrangheta and one of the most wanted people in germany and italy .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the six victims in the duisburg mafia killings were shot in their cars he is suspected of being the ringleader of a shootout that left six rival clan members dead outside a pizzeria in duisburg , western germany , in august 2007 .
germany still wants strangio public prosecutors in duisburg had been trying to get strangio extradited to germany to try him in a local court .
but in recent weeks , it was widely expected that the dutch court would rule in favor of italy .
prosecutors in duisburg have agreed that strangio should be taken first to italy , spokesman detlef nowotsch said .
" we are stepping back for the time being , " nowotsch said .
" but that does n't mean that we do n't want strangio , " he added .
italy 's case for strangio stronger , judge says on wednesday , salomon said italy 's reasons for wanting to try strangio on home soil were more compelling than germany 's .
the judge said the german killings had been the result of clashes between rival clans in the italian town of san luca .
" therefore the relation with italy is bigger than the relation with duisburg where the crime took place , " salomon said .
the judge also pointed out that italy was seeking to prosecute strangio not only for the 2007 killings , but also for membership of a criminal organization .
" furthermore , all the victims had italian nationality , " he said .
strangio is to be transferred to italian custody from his dutch prison in the next 10 days .
killings draw attention to ' ndrangheta mafia the execution-style shootings in duisburg , which grabbed headlines in germany , stemmed from a feud between two rival clans .
the bloody crime drew international attention to the ' ndrangheta , a crime syndicate based in the southern italian region of calabria .
witnesses said they saw two attackers fire about 70 bullets at the six victims , aged 16 to 39 , as they were sitting in their cars after leaving the da bruno restaurant in the industrial city .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the killings outside the da bruno restaurant in duisburg sent shockwaves through germany the duisburg hit was believed to have been revenge for the 2006 christmas-time killing of maria strangio , a cousin of giovanni strangio and the wife of the head of the nirta-strangio clan , giovanni nirta , and the wounding of her son .
the battle between the rival clans has left 16 people dead since 1991 .
in march , an italian court jailed 31 people for the duisburg massacre , one of them for 13 years .
italy 's eurispes social studies institute has estimated ' ndrangheta 's turnover from trafficking in drugs and arms , prostitution and extortion in 2007 at 44 billion euros -lrb- $ 65 billion -rrb- .
strangio was arrested in march in the dutch town of diemen , after a lengthy probe involving telephone wire tapping , surveillance and close coordination between dutch , german and italian police . sp / pfd dpa / afp / reuters send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de dutch police arrest top suspect in duisburg mafia massacre dutch police have arrested an italian man named by authorities as the main suspect for the 2007 murder of six men outside a duisburg restaurant .
the man 's brother-in-law was also arrested during the operation .
-lrb- 13.03.2009 -rrb- police nab mafia boss tied to duisburg killings a suspected mafia boss who was implicated in the execution-style killings of six members of his clan in duisburg , germany , in 2007 , was finally tracked down in italy .
-lrb- 16.10.2008 -rrb- police arrest mafia boss with ties to duisburg massacre italian police arrested a wanted calabrian mafia boss who is the brother-in-law of a chief suspect in the august 2007 killings of six italians in duisburg , news reports said on thursday , aug .
7 .
-lrb- 07.08.2008 -rrb- 9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - news with in depth we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
unemployment facing high unemployment at home , many young spaniards are trying their luck in germany .
watch the video tour de danger why have there been so many violent crashes at this year 's tour de france ?
listen to the audio world war ii nazi leader adolf hitler 's austrian birthplace kicks him off its list of honorary citizens .
listen to the audio inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
berlin unveils plan to help rid banks of toxic assets -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 14.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de economy -pipe- 13.05.2009 berlin unveils plan to help rid banks of toxic assets großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : banks can now move to clean up their balance sheets the german cabinet has approved a draft law to help rid lenders of an estimated 200 billion euros -lrb- $ 272 billion -rrb- in worthless assets .
banks can swap the assets against guaranteed state loans for up to 20 years . the aim of the " bad bank " plan is to clean up lenders ' balance sheets and restore confidence in the financial sector .
the bill , drafted by finance minister peer steinbrueck , would enable banks to receive state guaranteed loans on commercial terms , in exchange for offloading their troubled assets .
through the government 's financial market stabilization fund , soffin , lenders would be able to swap toxic assets for guaranteed state loans worth 90 percent of the original value of the assets .
lenders would pay an annual fee and be able to " freeze " the assets until better times come along . after a maximum of 20 years , they would have to pay back any losses to the government .
some believe the german banks hold more than 200 billion euros of troubled assets .
" in the interests of the real economy , we are buying time so that the so-called toxic assets can be cleared up , " explained chancellor angela merkel 's chief of staff , thomas de maiziere .
what 's worthless today , may not be tomorrow bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : german finance minister peer steinbrueck says taxpayers will not foot the bill " it 's not clear how toxic these assets really are , " said finance expert , otto salms of the liberal free democrats -lrb- fdp -rrb- .
" some of these assets may well be worth more again once the crisis ends and the economy recovers .
if that 's the case , the banks may end up having to write off much less at a later date than they would if they were forced to liquidate these assets today . "
economic recovery and financial liquidity go hand in hand .
one of the factors that 's been driving the crisis around the world is that banks have stopped lending to each other because they have n't been able to assess the size of the financial black holes on each other 's balance sheets .
berlin hopes that by removing bad holdings from balance sheets banks will start lending to each other again , as well as to businesses and consumers .
this in turn would help kick-start the german economy , the biggest in europe , which is expected to shrink by six percent this year .
shareholders , not taxpayers , to bear the burden under the plan , which comes five months before a general election , any liabilities at the end of maturity would accrue to shareholders , and not to the taxpayer .
" it 's only right that whoever made profits through taking high risks over the years , must also be prepared to take the losses , " explained financial expert johannes kahrs , of the social democrats -lrb- spd -rrb- , the coalition partners of chancellor angela merkel 's christian democrats -lrb- cdu -rrb- . "
i think that 's reasonable , it 's a basic economic principle . "
some critics say the scheme is flawed because it is voluntary .
banks are not to be forced to dispose of toxic assets through the soffin national rescue program .
the government insists that " good banks " are interesting for investors and a cleaned up , reliable balance sheet will attract capital .
the draft legislation still has to go before both the lower and upper houses of parliament , the bundestag und bundesrat . wl / pfd / afp / ard send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de financial watchdog chief calls for " bad bank " for toxic assets the head of a watchdog committee of germany 's bank stabilization fund has called for the creation of a " bad bank " that could buy up toxic assets and unblock interbank lending .
-lrb- 11.01.2009 -rrb- us mortgage crisis hits german banks the battered subprime mortgage market in the united states is increasingly impacting the us economy .
now , losses from risky us home loans to borrowers with poor credit histories have swept across the atlantic .
-lrb- 31.07.2007 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic the german cabinet backs plan to relieve the country 's banks of their toxic assets 9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit tagesthema we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live arts on the air listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
digital street art artists in berlin reinvent graffiti by projecting light onto buildings using computer systems .
watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
berlin unveils plan to help rid banks of toxic assets -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 22.11.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de economy -pipe- 13.05.2009 berlin unveils plan to help rid banks of toxic assets großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : banks can now move to clean up their balance sheets the german cabinet has approved a draft law to help rid lenders of an estimated 200 billion euros -lrb- $ 272 billion -rrb- in worthless assets .
banks can swap the assets against guaranteed state loans for up to 20 years . the aim of the " bad bank " plan is to clean up lenders ' balance sheets and restore confidence in the financial sector .
the bill , drafted by finance minister peer steinbrueck , would enable banks to receive state guaranteed loans on commercial terms , in exchange for offloading their troubled assets .
through the government 's financial market stabilization fund , soffin , lenders would be able to swap toxic assets for guaranteed state loans worth 90 percent of the original value of the assets .
lenders would pay an annual fee and be able to " freeze " the assets until better times come along . after a maximum of 20 years , they would have to pay back any losses to the government .
some believe the german banks hold more than 200 billion euros of troubled assets .
" in the interests of the real economy , we are buying time so that the so-called toxic assets can be cleared up , " explained chancellor angela merkel 's chief of staff , thomas de maiziere .
what 's worthless today , may not be tomorrow bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : german finance minister peer steinbrueck says taxpayers will not foot the bill " it 's not clear how toxic these assets really are , " said finance expert , otto salms of the liberal free democrats -lrb- fdp -rrb- .
" some of these assets may well be worth more again once the crisis ends and the economy recovers .
if that 's the case , the banks may end up having to write off much less at a later date than they would if they were forced to liquidate these assets today . "
economic recovery and financial liquidity go hand in hand .
one of the factors that 's been driving the crisis around the world is that banks have stopped lending to each other because they have n't been able to assess the size of the financial black holes on each other 's balance sheets .
berlin hopes that by removing bad holdings from balance sheets banks will start lending to each other again , as well as to businesses and consumers .
this in turn would help kick-start the german economy , the biggest in europe , which is expected to shrink by six percent this year .
shareholders , not taxpayers , to bear the burden under the plan , which comes five months before a general election , any liabilities at the end of maturity would accrue to shareholders , and not to the taxpayer .
" it 's only right that whoever made profits through taking high risks over the years , must also be prepared to take the losses , " explained financial expert johannes kahrs , of the social democrats -lrb- spd -rrb- , the coalition partners of chancellor angela merkel 's christian democrats -lrb- cdu -rrb- . "
i think that 's reasonable , it 's a basic economic principle . "
some critics say the scheme is flawed because it is voluntary .
banks are not to be forced to dispose of toxic assets through the soffin national rescue program .
the government insists that " good banks " are interesting for investors and a cleaned up , reliable balance sheet will attract capital .
the draft legislation still has to go before both the lower and upper houses of parliament , the bundestag und bundesrat . wl / pfd / afp / ard send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de financial watchdog chief calls for " bad bank " for toxic assets the head of a watchdog committee of germany 's bank stabilization fund has called for the creation of a " bad bank " that could buy up toxic assets and unblock interbank lending .
-lrb- 11.01.2009 -rrb- us mortgage crisis hits german banks the battered subprime mortgage market in the united states is increasingly impacting the us economy .
now , losses from risky us home loans to borrowers with poor credit histories have swept across the atlantic .
-lrb- 31.07.2007 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic the german cabinet backs plan to relieve the country 's banks of their toxic assets feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live sports report listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
berlin unveils plan to help rid banks of toxic assets -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.09.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de economy -pipe- 13.05.2009 berlin unveils plan to help rid banks of toxic assets großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : banks can now move to clean up their balance sheets the german cabinet has approved a draft law to help rid lenders of an estimated 200 billion euros -lrb- $ 272 billion -rrb- in worthless assets .
banks can swap the assets against guaranteed state loans for up to 20 years . the aim of the " bad bank " plan is to clean up lenders ' balance sheets and restore confidence in the financial sector .
the bill , drafted by finance minister peer steinbrueck , would enable banks to receive state guaranteed loans on commercial terms , in exchange for offloading their troubled assets .
through the government 's financial market stabilization fund , soffin , lenders would be able to swap toxic assets for guaranteed state loans worth 90 percent of the original value of the assets .
lenders would pay an annual fee and be able to " freeze " the assets until better times come along . after a maximum of 20 years , they would have to pay back any losses to the government .
some believe the german banks hold more than 200 billion euros of troubled assets .
" in the interests of the real economy , we are buying time so that the so-called toxic assets can be cleared up , " explained chancellor angela merkel 's chief of staff , thomas de maiziere .
what 's worthless today , may not be tomorrow bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : german finance minister peer steinbrueck says taxpayers will not foot the bill " it 's not clear how toxic these assets really are , " said finance expert , otto salms of the liberal free democrats -lrb- fdp -rrb- .
" some of these assets may well be worth more again once the crisis ends and the economy recovers .
if that 's the case , the banks may end up having to write off much less at a later date than they would if they were forced to liquidate these assets today . "
economic recovery and financial liquidity go hand in hand .
one of the factors that 's been driving the crisis around the world is that banks have stopped lending to each other because they have n't been able to assess the size of the financial black holes on each other 's balance sheets .
berlin hopes that by removing bad holdings from balance sheets banks will start lending to each other again , as well as to businesses and consumers .
this in turn would help kick-start the german economy , the biggest in europe , which is expected to shrink by six percent this year .
shareholders , not taxpayers , to bear the burden under the plan , which comes five months before a general election , any liabilities at the end of maturity would accrue to shareholders , and not to the taxpayer .
" it 's only right that whoever made profits through taking high risks over the years , must also be prepared to take the losses , " explained financial expert johannes kahrs , of the social democrats -lrb- spd -rrb- , the coalition partners of chancellor angela merkel 's christian democrats -lrb- cdu -rrb- . "
i think that 's reasonable , it 's a basic economic principle . "
some critics say the scheme is flawed because it is voluntary .
banks are not to be forced to dispose of toxic assets through the soffin national rescue program .
the government insists that " good banks " are interesting for investors and a cleaned up , reliable balance sheet will attract capital .
the draft legislation still has to go before both the lower and upper houses of parliament , the bundestag und bundesrat . wl / pfd / afp / ard send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de financial watchdog chief calls for " bad bank " for toxic assets the head of a watchdog committee of germany 's bank stabilization fund has called for the creation of a " bad bank " that could buy up toxic assets and unblock interbank lending .
-lrb- 11.01.2009 -rrb- us mortgage crisis hits german banks the battered subprime mortgage market in the united states is increasingly impacting the us economy .
now , losses from risky us home loans to borrowers with poor credit histories have swept across the atlantic .
-lrb- 31.07.2007 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic the german cabinet backs plan to relieve the country 's banks of their toxic assets feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live concert hour musica sacra international listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
berlin unveils plan to help rid banks of toxic assets -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 24.12.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de economy -pipe- 13.05.2009 berlin unveils plan to help rid banks of toxic assets großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : banks can now move to clean up their balance sheets the german cabinet has approved a draft law to help rid lenders of an estimated 200 billion euros -lrb- $ 272 billion -rrb- in worthless assets .
banks can swap the assets against guaranteed state loans for up to 20 years . the aim of the " bad bank " plan is to clean up lenders ' balance sheets and restore confidence in the financial sector .
the bill , drafted by finance minister peer steinbrueck , would enable banks to receive state guaranteed loans on commercial terms , in exchange for offloading their troubled assets .
through the government 's financial market stabilization fund , soffin , lenders would be able to swap toxic assets for guaranteed state loans worth 90 percent of the original value of the assets .
lenders would pay an annual fee and be able to " freeze " the assets until better times come along . after a maximum of 20 years , they would have to pay back any losses to the government .
some believe the german banks hold more than 200 billion euros of troubled assets .
" in the interests of the real economy , we are buying time so that the so-called toxic assets can be cleared up , " explained chancellor angela merkel 's chief of staff , thomas de maiziere .
what 's worthless today , may not be tomorrow bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : german finance minister peer steinbrueck says taxpayers will not foot the bill " it 's not clear how toxic these assets really are , " said finance expert , otto salms of the liberal free democrats -lrb- fdp -rrb- .
" some of these assets may well be worth more again once the crisis ends and the economy recovers .
if that 's the case , the banks may end up having to write off much less at a later date than they would if they were forced to liquidate these assets today . "
economic recovery and financial liquidity go hand in hand .
one of the factors that 's been driving the crisis around the world is that banks have stopped lending to each other because they have n't been able to assess the size of the financial black holes on each other 's balance sheets .
berlin hopes that by removing bad holdings from balance sheets banks will start lending to each other again , as well as to businesses and consumers .
this in turn would help kick-start the german economy , the biggest in europe , which is expected to shrink by six percent this year .
shareholders , not taxpayers , to bear the burden under the plan , which comes five months before a general election , any liabilities at the end of maturity would accrue to shareholders , and not to the taxpayer .
" it 's only right that whoever made profits through taking high risks over the years , must also be prepared to take the losses , " explained financial expert johannes kahrs , of the social democrats -lrb- spd -rrb- , the coalition partners of chancellor angela merkel 's christian democrats -lrb- cdu -rrb- . "
i think that 's reasonable , it 's a basic economic principle . "
some critics say the scheme is flawed because it is voluntary .
banks are not to be forced to dispose of toxic assets through the soffin national rescue program .
the government insists that " good banks " are interesting for investors and a cleaned up , reliable balance sheet will attract capital .
the draft legislation still has to go before both the lower and upper houses of parliament , the bundestag und bundesrat . wl / pfd / afp / ard send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de financial watchdog chief calls for " bad bank " for toxic assets the head of a watchdog committee of germany 's bank stabilization fund has called for the creation of a " bad bank " that could buy up toxic assets and unblock interbank lending .
-lrb- 11.01.2009 -rrb- us mortgage crisis hits german banks the battered subprime mortgage market in the united states is increasingly impacting the us economy .
now , losses from risky us home loans to borrowers with poor credit histories have swept across the atlantic .
-lrb- 31.07.2007 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic the german cabinet backs plan to relieve the country 's banks of their toxic assets feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
travel passau is called the three river city , but it is just as famous for its baroque splendor .
passau - baroque facades and vibrant arts watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
berlin unveils plan to help rid banks of toxic assets -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 19.10.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de economy -pipe- 13.05.2009 berlin unveils plan to help rid banks of toxic assets großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : banks can now move to clean up their balance sheets the german cabinet has approved a draft law to help rid lenders of an estimated 200 billion euros -lrb- $ 272 billion -rrb- in worthless assets .
banks can swap the assets against guaranteed state loans for up to 20 years . the aim of the " bad bank " plan is to clean up lenders ' balance sheets and restore confidence in the financial sector .
the bill , drafted by finance minister peer steinbrueck , would enable banks to receive state guaranteed loans on commercial terms , in exchange for offloading their troubled assets .
through the government 's financial market stabilization fund , soffin , lenders would be able to swap toxic assets for guaranteed state loans worth 90 percent of the original value of the assets .
lenders would pay an annual fee and be able to " freeze " the assets until better times come along . after a maximum of 20 years , they would have to pay back any losses to the government .
some believe the german banks hold more than 200 billion euros of troubled assets .
" in the interests of the real economy , we are buying time so that the so-called toxic assets can be cleared up , " explained chancellor angela merkel 's chief of staff , thomas de maiziere .
what 's worthless today , may not be tomorrow bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : german finance minister peer steinbrueck says taxpayers will not foot the bill " it 's not clear how toxic these assets really are , " said finance expert , otto salms of the liberal free democrats -lrb- fdp -rrb- .
" some of these assets may well be worth more again once the crisis ends and the economy recovers .
if that 's the case , the banks may end up having to write off much less at a later date than they would if they were forced to liquidate these assets today . "
economic recovery and financial liquidity go hand in hand .
one of the factors that 's been driving the crisis around the world is that banks have stopped lending to each other because they have n't been able to assess the size of the financial black holes on each other 's balance sheets .
berlin hopes that by removing bad holdings from balance sheets banks will start lending to each other again , as well as to businesses and consumers .
this in turn would help kick-start the german economy , the biggest in europe , which is expected to shrink by six percent this year .
shareholders , not taxpayers , to bear the burden under the plan , which comes five months before a general election , any liabilities at the end of maturity would accrue to shareholders , and not to the taxpayer .
" it 's only right that whoever made profits through taking high risks over the years , must also be prepared to take the losses , " explained financial expert johannes kahrs , of the social democrats -lrb- spd -rrb- , the coalition partners of chancellor angela merkel 's christian democrats -lrb- cdu -rrb- . "
i think that 's reasonable , it 's a basic economic principle . "
some critics say the scheme is flawed because it is voluntary .
banks are not to be forced to dispose of toxic assets through the soffin national rescue program .
the government insists that " good banks " are interesting for investors and a cleaned up , reliable balance sheet will attract capital .
the draft legislation still has to go before both the lower and upper houses of parliament , the bundestag und bundesrat . wl / pfd / afp / ard send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de financial watchdog chief calls for " bad bank " for toxic assets the head of a watchdog committee of germany 's bank stabilization fund has called for the creation of a " bad bank " that could buy up toxic assets and unblock interbank lending .
-lrb- 11.01.2009 -rrb- us mortgage crisis hits german banks the battered subprime mortgage market in the united states is increasingly impacting the us economy .
now , losses from risky us home loans to borrowers with poor credit histories have swept across the atlantic .
-lrb- 31.07.2007 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic the german cabinet backs plan to relieve the country 's banks of their toxic assets feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
berlin unveils plan to help rid banks of toxic assets -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 21.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de economy -pipe- 13.05.2009 berlin unveils plan to help rid banks of toxic assets großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : banks can now move to clean up their balance sheets the german cabinet has approved a draft law to help rid lenders of an estimated 200 billion euros -lrb- $ 272 billion -rrb- in worthless assets .
banks can swap the assets against guaranteed state loans for up to 20 years . the aim of the " bad bank " plan is to clean up lenders ' balance sheets and restore confidence in the financial sector .
the bill , drafted by finance minister peer steinbrueck , would enable banks to receive state guaranteed loans on commercial terms , in exchange for offloading their troubled assets .
through the government 's financial market stabilization fund , soffin , lenders would be able to swap toxic assets for guaranteed state loans worth 90 percent of the original value of the assets .
lenders would pay an annual fee and be able to " freeze " the assets until better times come along . after a maximum of 20 years , they would have to pay back any losses to the government .
some believe the german banks hold more than 200 billion euros of troubled assets .
" in the interests of the real economy , we are buying time so that the so-called toxic assets can be cleared up , " explained chancellor angela merkel 's chief of staff , thomas de maiziere .
what 's worthless today , may not be tomorrow bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : german finance minister peer steinbrueck says taxpayers will not foot the bill " it 's not clear how toxic these assets really are , " said finance expert , otto salms of the liberal free democrats -lrb- fdp -rrb- .
" some of these assets may well be worth more again once the crisis ends and the economy recovers .
if that 's the case , the banks may end up having to write off much less at a later date than they would if they were forced to liquidate these assets today . "
economic recovery and financial liquidity go hand in hand .
one of the factors that 's been driving the crisis around the world is that banks have stopped lending to each other because they have n't been able to assess the size of the financial black holes on each other 's balance sheets .
berlin hopes that by removing bad holdings from balance sheets banks will start lending to each other again , as well as to businesses and consumers .
this in turn would help kick-start the german economy , the biggest in europe , which is expected to shrink by six percent this year .
shareholders , not taxpayers , to bear the burden under the plan , which comes five months before a general election , any liabilities at the end of maturity would accrue to shareholders , and not to the taxpayer .
" it 's only right that whoever made profits through taking high risks over the years , must also be prepared to take the losses , " explained financial expert johannes kahrs , of the social democrats -lrb- spd -rrb- , the coalition partners of chancellor angela merkel 's christian democrats -lrb- cdu -rrb- . "
i think that 's reasonable , it 's a basic economic principle . "
some critics say the scheme is flawed because it is voluntary .
banks are not to be forced to dispose of toxic assets through the soffin national rescue program .
the government insists that " good banks " are interesting for investors and a cleaned up , reliable balance sheet will attract capital .
the draft legislation still has to go before both the lower and upper houses of parliament , the bundestag und bundesrat . wl / pfd / afp / ard send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de financial watchdog chief calls for " bad bank " for toxic assets the head of a watchdog committee of germany 's bank stabilization fund has called for the creation of a " bad bank " that could buy up toxic assets and unblock interbank lending .
-lrb- 11.01.2009 -rrb- us mortgage crisis hits german banks the battered subprime mortgage market in the united states is increasingly impacting the us economy .
now , losses from risky us home loans to borrowers with poor credit histories have swept across the atlantic .
-lrb- 31.07.2007 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic the german cabinet backs plan to relieve the country 's banks of their toxic assets 9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
culture west german photographer thomas hoepker documented life abroad - in east germany - in the 1970s .
watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
berlin unveils plan to help rid banks of toxic assets -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.01.2011 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de economy -pipe- 13.05.2009 berlin unveils plan to help rid banks of toxic assets großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : banks can now move to clean up their balance sheets the german cabinet has approved a draft law to help rid lenders of an estimated 200 billion euros -lrb- $ 272 billion -rrb- in worthless assets .
banks can swap the assets against guaranteed state loans for up to 20 years . the aim of the " bad bank " plan is to clean up lenders ' balance sheets and restore confidence in the financial sector .
the bill , drafted by finance minister peer steinbrueck , would enable banks to receive state guaranteed loans on commercial terms , in exchange for offloading their troubled assets .
through the government 's financial market stabilization fund , soffin , lenders would be able to swap toxic assets for guaranteed state loans worth 90 percent of the original value of the assets .
lenders would pay an annual fee and be able to " freeze " the assets until better times come along . after a maximum of 20 years , they would have to pay back any losses to the government .
some believe the german banks hold more than 200 billion euros of troubled assets .
" in the interests of the real economy , we are buying time so that the so-called toxic assets can be cleared up , " explained chancellor angela merkel 's chief of staff , thomas de maiziere .
what 's worthless today , may not be tomorrow bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : german finance minister peer steinbrueck says taxpayers will not foot the bill " it 's not clear how toxic these assets really are , " said finance expert , otto salms of the liberal free democrats -lrb- fdp -rrb- .
" some of these assets may well be worth more again once the crisis ends and the economy recovers .
if that 's the case , the banks may end up having to write off much less at a later date than they would if they were forced to liquidate these assets today . "
economic recovery and financial liquidity go hand in hand .
one of the factors that 's been driving the crisis around the world is that banks have stopped lending to each other because they have n't been able to assess the size of the financial black holes on each other 's balance sheets .
berlin hopes that by removing bad holdings from balance sheets banks will start lending to each other again , as well as to businesses and consumers .
this in turn would help kick-start the german economy , the biggest in europe , which is expected to shrink by six percent this year .
shareholders , not taxpayers , to bear the burden under the plan , which comes five months before a general election , any liabilities at the end of maturity would accrue to shareholders , and not to the taxpayer .
" it 's only right that whoever made profits through taking high risks over the years , must also be prepared to take the losses , " explained financial expert johannes kahrs , of the social democrats -lrb- spd -rrb- , the coalition partners of chancellor angela merkel 's christian democrats -lrb- cdu -rrb- . "
i think that 's reasonable , it 's a basic economic principle . "
some critics say the scheme is flawed because it is voluntary .
banks are not to be forced to dispose of toxic assets through the soffin national rescue program .
the government insists that " good banks " are interesting for investors and a cleaned up , reliable balance sheet will attract capital .
the draft legislation still has to go before both the lower and upper houses of parliament , the bundestag und bundesrat . wl / pfd / afp / ard send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de financial watchdog chief calls for " bad bank " for toxic assets the head of a watchdog committee of germany 's bank stabilization fund has called for the creation of a " bad bank " that could buy up toxic assets and unblock interbank lending .
-lrb- 11.01.2009 -rrb- us mortgage crisis hits german banks the battered subprime mortgage market in the united states is increasingly impacting the us economy .
now , losses from risky us home loans to borrowers with poor credit histories have swept across the atlantic .
-lrb- 31.07.2007 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic the german cabinet backs plan to relieve the country 's banks of their toxic assets feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live arts on the air listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
cannes rolls out the world 's most famous red carpet once again -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 01.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de film -pipe- 13.05.2009 cannes rolls out the world 's most famous red carpet once again großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : in a cannes first , an animated film opened the festival each may , a festival held on the french riviera draws a collection of the world 's leading cinema minds from all corners of the globe : the cannes film festival .
this year 's edition kicked off on wednesday . the 62nd gathering of cinema 's elite in the resort town of cannes , which sits on france 's mediterranean coast , remains one of the world 's most esteemed and prestigious film festivals .
to win the coveted palme d 'or prize for best film at cannes could be described as a crowning achievement for any producer , director , actor or film studio involved in the production .
unlike other well-known film festivals , such as those in berlin and venice , the focus at cannes is usually on aesthetics : beautiful cinema .
though this year 's 20 entries take on more brutal tones .
this includes american quentin tarantino 's ultra-violent " inglourious basterds , " about a group of bloodthirsty nazi hunters , and korean park chan wook 's priest-turned-vampire flick " bak-jwi " -lrb- " thirst " -rrb- , which has already been racing up the movie charts in his home country .
maverick danish director lars von trier also raises the horror notch this year with his " antichrist , " in which willem dafoe and charlotte gainsbourg find themselves confronting their inner fears and some dark forces in a deserted cabin in the woods .
bildunterschrift : german director wim wenders ' film " paris , texas " is a past winner at cannes german co-production this year also sees a motion picture from germany-born director michael haneke , who directed the 2001 palme d 'or-winning film " the piano teacher . "
his latest cannes entry , " das weisse band " -lrb- " the white ribbon " -rrb- , is set in a village in protestant northern germany in 1913 .
haneke 's tale recreates a country on the eve of world war i , told through the lives of members of a youth choir run by the village school teacher and their families .
little more has been written about the film , the result of haneke 's strict policy of silence in the lead up to his films ' openings .
the film was a joint production between studios in germany , france , austria and italy .
if " the white ribbon " finds success at cannes this year , it would not be the first german co-production to make a name for itself at the festival .
in 1979 , volker schloendorff 's screen adaptation of " die blechtrommel " -lrb- " the tin drum " -rrb- took the top prize , as did wim wenders ' 1984 film " paris , texas . "
new and old faces bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : de niro will always be remembered for his leading role in " taxi driver " these films went on to become part of cinematic history , as do most palme d 'or winners .
this venerated list includes francis ford coppola 's " apocalypse now , " bunuel 's " viridiana , " visconti 's " the leopard " and scorsese 's " taxi driver . "
this year , all eyes will be on 3-d comedy " up " from us director pete docter , which is the first animated film to open the 12-day festival .
the story features an old man who ties balloons to his house in the hope of fulfilling a boyhood dream of flying to south america .
meanwhile , a man bent on avenging the death of his daughter in hong kong director jonnie to 's " vengeance " is also screening , and seven years after shaking up a storm in cannes with his story of rape in " irreversible , " france 's gaspar noe is back at the festival with " enter the void " about a brutal murder .
belt tightening bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the glitterati wo n't be stopped by the financial crisis with the economic crisis having cut a swathe through the world film industry over the last year , filmmakers from hollywood through to bollywood have faced cost-cutting , studio layoffs and an ever more cautious army of producers and movie financiers .
already signs have emerged that the motion picture business has scaled back plans for the lavish parties and extravagant promotional events that have always been a feature of the festival .
but all bets are that whatever the economic climate , this year 's gathering is still likely to celebrate movie-making and the cult of the celebrity with considerable style and flair . dfm / pfd / dpa / afp / reuters send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de germany 's film industry celebrates banner year in 2008 german productions contributed decisively to a banner year in the nation 's film industry in 2008 , continuing last year 's upbeat trend .
-lrb- 05.02.2009 -rrb- lights , camera , action for kosslick as berlinale approaches armed with a mischievous smile and twinkling eyes , dieter kosslick revels in his role as the director of the berlinale , which kicks off this year with a film about the illegal machinations of an international bank .
-lrb- 03.02.2009 -rrb- german love triangle squares off at venice film festival " jerichow , " a love triangle by german director christian petzold , screened at the venice film festival , the first german entry competing for the golden lion since 2004 .
it faces strong competition from the us and italy .
-lrb- 29.08.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 dw-tv europe live projekt zukunft we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live in-box feedback from around the world listen live audio slide show aerial theater a young norwegian acrobat is following her passion - despite rope burns .
music dw presents podcasts of performances by top artists at the 2010 beethovenfest .
podcasts on itunes more on beethoven podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's new free podcast .
clip no. 1 - luis und laserpower clip no. 2 - abel & cain clip no. 3 - baby benzin clip no. 4 - the intersphere clip no. 5 - shantel clip no. 6 - klee subscribe on itunes get the rss feed word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
hits in germany concert hour music this week arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
cannes rolls out the world 's most famous red carpet once again -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 24.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de film -pipe- 13.05.2009 cannes rolls out the world 's most famous red carpet once again großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : in a cannes first , an animated film opened the festival each may , a festival held on the french riviera draws a collection of the world 's leading cinema minds from all corners of the globe : the cannes film festival .
this year 's edition kicked off on wednesday . the 62nd gathering of cinema 's elite in the resort town of cannes , which sits on france 's mediterranean coast , remains one of the world 's most esteemed and prestigious film festivals .
to win the coveted palme d 'or prize for best film at cannes could be described as a crowning achievement for any producer , director , actor or film studio involved in the production .
unlike other well-known film festivals , such as those in berlin and venice , the focus at cannes is usually on aesthetics : beautiful cinema .
though this year 's 20 entries take on more brutal tones .
this includes american quentin tarantino 's ultra-violent " inglourious basterds , " about a group of bloodthirsty nazi hunters , and korean park chan wook 's priest-turned-vampire flick " bak-jwi " -lrb- " thirst " -rrb- , which has already been racing up the movie charts in his home country .
maverick danish director lars von trier also raises the horror notch this year with his " antichrist , " in which willem dafoe and charlotte gainsbourg find themselves confronting their inner fears and some dark forces in a deserted cabin in the woods .
bildunterschrift : german director wim wenders ' film " paris , texas " is a past winner at cannes german co-production this year also sees a motion picture from germany-born director michael haneke , who directed the 2001 palme d 'or-winning film " the piano teacher . "
his latest cannes entry , " das weisse band " -lrb- " the white ribbon " -rrb- , is set in a village in protestant northern germany in 1913 .
haneke 's tale recreates a country on the eve of world war i , told through the lives of members of a youth choir run by the village school teacher and their families .
little more has been written about the film , the result of haneke 's strict policy of silence in the lead up to his films ' openings .
the film was a joint production between studios in germany , france , austria and italy .
if " the white ribbon " finds success at cannes this year , it would not be the first german co-production to make a name for itself at the festival .
in 1979 , volker schloendorff 's screen adaptation of " die blechtrommel " -lrb- " the tin drum " -rrb- took the top prize , as did wim wenders ' 1984 film " paris , texas . "
new and old faces bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : de niro will always be remembered for his leading role in " taxi driver " these films went on to become part of cinematic history , as do most palme d 'or winners .
this venerated list includes francis ford coppola 's " apocalypse now , " bunuel 's " viridiana , " visconti 's " the leopard " and scorsese 's " taxi driver . "
this year , all eyes will be on 3-d comedy " up " from us director pete docter , which is the first animated film to open the 12-day festival .
the story features an old man who ties balloons to his house in the hope of fulfilling a boyhood dream of flying to south america .
meanwhile , a man bent on avenging the death of his daughter in hong kong director jonnie to 's " vengeance " is also screening , and seven years after shaking up a storm in cannes with his story of rape in " irreversible , " france 's gaspar noe is back at the festival with " enter the void " about a brutal murder .
belt tightening bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the glitterati wo n't be stopped by the financial crisis with the economic crisis having cut a swathe through the world film industry over the last year , filmmakers from hollywood through to bollywood have faced cost-cutting , studio layoffs and an ever more cautious army of producers and movie financiers .
already signs have emerged that the motion picture business has scaled back plans for the lavish parties and extravagant promotional events that have always been a feature of the festival .
but all bets are that whatever the economic climate , this year 's gathering is still likely to celebrate movie-making and the cult of the celebrity with considerable style and flair . dfm / pfd / dpa / afp / reuters send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de germany 's film industry celebrates banner year in 2008 german productions contributed decisively to a banner year in the nation 's film industry in 2008 , continuing last year 's upbeat trend .
-lrb- 05.02.2009 -rrb- lights , camera , action for kosslick as berlinale approaches armed with a mischievous smile and twinkling eyes , dieter kosslick revels in his role as the director of the berlinale , which kicks off this year with a film about the illegal machinations of an international bank .
-lrb- 03.02.2009 -rrb- german love triangle squares off at venice film festival " jerichow , " a love triangle by german director christian petzold , screened at the venice film festival , the first german entry competing for the golden lion since 2004 .
it faces strong competition from the us and italy .
-lrb- 29.08.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
picture gallery christmas markets holiday cheer ís easy to come by during the advent season in germany .
travel explore some of europe 's most fascinating cities with dw-tv 's euromaxx .
athens , greece trieste , italy krakow , poland le mans , france tarragona , spain oslo , norway edinburgh , scotland dresden , germany podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's new free podcast .
' clip ' homepage clip no. 4 - the intersphere clip no. 5 - shantel clip no. 6 - klee clip no. 7 - einshoch6 subscribe on itunes get the rss feed word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
hits in germany concert hour music this week arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth music dw presents podcasts of performances by top artists at the 2010 beethovenfest .
podcasts on itunes more on beethoven © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
cannes rolls out the world 's most famous red carpet once again -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 21.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle music art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de film -pipe- 13.05.2009 cannes rolls out the world 's most famous red carpet once again großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : in a cannes first , an animated film opened the festival each may , a festival held on the french riviera draws a collection of the world 's leading cinema minds from all corners of the globe : the cannes film festival .
this year 's edition kicked off on wednesday . the 62nd gathering of cinema 's elite in the resort town of cannes , which sits on france 's mediterranean coast , remains one of the world 's most esteemed and prestigious film festivals .
to win the coveted palme d 'or prize for best film at cannes could be described as a crowning achievement for any producer , director , actor or film studio involved in the production .
unlike other well-known film festivals , such as those in berlin and venice , the focus at cannes is usually on aesthetics : beautiful cinema .
though this year 's 20 entries take on more brutal tones .
this includes american quentin tarantino 's ultra-violent " inglourious basterds , " about a group of bloodthirsty nazi hunters , and korean park chan wook 's priest-turned-vampire flick " bak-jwi " -lrb- " thirst " -rrb- , which has already been racing up the movie charts in his home country .
maverick danish director lars von trier also raises the horror notch this year with his " antichrist , " in which willem dafoe and charlotte gainsbourg find themselves confronting their inner fears and some dark forces in a deserted cabin in the woods .
bildunterschrift : german director wim wenders ' film " paris , texas " is a past winner at cannes german co-production this year also sees a motion picture from germany-born director michael haneke , who directed the 2001 palme d 'or-winning film " the piano teacher . "
his latest cannes entry , " das weisse band " -lrb- " the white ribbon " -rrb- , is set in a village in protestant northern germany in 1913 .
haneke 's tale recreates a country on the eve of world war i , told through the lives of members of a youth choir run by the village school teacher and their families .
little more has been written about the film , the result of haneke 's strict policy of silence in the lead up to his films ' openings .
the film was a joint production between studios in germany , france , austria and italy .
if " the white ribbon " finds success at cannes this year , it would not be the first german co-production to make a name for itself at the festival .
in 1979 , volker schloendorff 's screen adaptation of " die blechtrommel " -lrb- " the tin drum " -rrb- took the top prize , as did wim wenders ' 1984 film " paris , texas . "
new and old faces bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : de niro will always be remembered for his leading role in " taxi driver " these films went on to become part of cinematic history , as do most palme d 'or winners .
this venerated list includes francis ford coppola 's " apocalypse now , " bunuel 's " viridiana , " visconti 's " the leopard " and scorsese 's " taxi driver . "
this year , all eyes will be on 3-d comedy " up " from us director pete docter , which is the first animated film to open the 12-day festival .
the story features an old man who ties balloons to his house in the hope of fulfilling a boyhood dream of flying to south america .
meanwhile , a man bent on avenging the death of his daughter in hong kong director jonnie to 's " vengeance " is also screening , and seven years after shaking up a storm in cannes with his story of rape in " irreversible , " france 's gaspar noe is back at the festival with " enter the void " about a brutal murder .
belt tightening bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the glitterati wo n't be stopped by the financial crisis with the economic crisis having cut a swathe through the world film industry over the last year , filmmakers from hollywood through to bollywood have faced cost-cutting , studio layoffs and an ever more cautious army of producers and movie financiers .
already signs have emerged that the motion picture business has scaled back plans for the lavish parties and extravagant promotional events that have always been a feature of the festival .
but all bets are that whatever the economic climate , this year 's gathering is still likely to celebrate movie-making and the cult of the celebrity with considerable style and flair . dfm / pfd / dpa / afp / reuters send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de germany 's film industry celebrates banner year in 2008 german productions contributed decisively to a banner year in the nation 's film industry in 2008 , continuing last year 's upbeat trend .
-lrb- 05.02.2009 -rrb- lights , camera , action for kosslick as berlinale approaches armed with a mischievous smile and twinkling eyes , dieter kosslick revels in his role as the director of the berlinale , which kicks off this year with a film about the illegal machinations of an international bank .
-lrb- 03.02.2009 -rrb- german love triangle squares off at venice film festival " jerichow , " a love triangle by german director christian petzold , screened at the venice film festival , the first german entry competing for the golden lion since 2004 .
it faces strong competition from the us and italy .
-lrb- 29.08.2008 -rrb- 9801 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
twitter follow dw culture keep up on europe 's culture and lifestyle scene .
cuisine get a taste of europe with these gourmet recipes .
seafood from scotland swedish crispbread saddle of rabbit with asparagus risotto rutabaga soup dumplings with meat filling sweet-savory pheasant from leeds dw-tv : euromaxx podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's new free podcast .
' clip ' homepage clip no. 12 - favorite alt-rockers ja , panik are back subscribe on itunes get the rss feed word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
view from my window radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
soundscape 100 concert hour arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
pope visits west bank , calls for palestinian statehood -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 14.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de religion -pipe- 13.05.2009 pope visits west bank , calls for palestinian statehood großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : palestinians gave an enthusiastic welcome to pope benedict during a visit to bethlehem , pope benedict xvi voiced support for palestinian aspirations of an independent homeland and said he hoped the wall that israel has erected in and around the west bank would come down . speaking in bethlehem after holding a mass in manger square , the pope pressed calls to remove the wall and watch towers that seal bethlehem off from jerusalem .
" towering over us ... is a stark reminder of the stalemate that relations between israelis and palestinians seem to have reached - the wall , " the pope said as he stood in the shadow of israel 's separation wall in the aida refugee camp , which houses refugees from israel 's creation in 1948 .
the pope said it 's " understandable that palestinians feel frustrated , " adding that " their legitimate aspirations for permanent homes , for an independent palestinian state , remain unfulfilled . "
the camp is home to around 5,000 refugees .
bildunterschrift : palestinian children at the aida refugee camp next to a poster of the pope " i have seen , ... overshadowing much of bethlehem , the wall that intrudes into your territories , separating neighbors and dividing families , " the pope said in the town believed to be the birthplace of jesus christ .
" although walls can be easily built , we all know that they do not last forever .
they can be taken down . "
pope lends support to palestinian statehood earlier , thousands greeted the pope 's black limousine as he made his way to manger square where he said mass for about 5,000 people next to the church of the nativity that marks the spot where christians believe jesus was born to mary in a stable .
one of the aims of the pope 's visit is to attempt to preserve a shrinking christian presence in the middle east .
the christian population of bethlehem has decreased dramatically in recent years through emigration . thousands of christians left the town after a palestinian uprising in 2000 and was met by an israeli security clampdown and the start of construction of the barrier .
the pope acknowledged israel 's security concerns as well as palestinian suffering , and urged people not to " resort to acts of violence or terrorism . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : pope benedict xvi outside of the church of the nativity in bethlehem the pope said his heart went out to those caught up in the conflict in gaza , adding that he was praying for an end to the israeli embargo of the gaza strip .
earlier , the pontiff told palestinian president mahmoud abbas that he backed the creation of a palestinian state .
" the holy see supports the right of your people to a sovereign palestinian homeland in the land of your forefathers , secure and at peace with your neighbors , within internationally recognized borders , " he said .
the pope 's comments are the vatican 's strongest and most symbolic public backing yet for an independent palestinian state .
the two-state solution is supported by abbas , arab nations and western powers .
but the new israeli prime minister , benjamin netanyahu , has declined so far to endorse it .
visit dogged by controversy the german-born pope 's week-long trip to the middle east , his first visit to the region , has not been without controversy .
on tuesday , a row erupted over the pope 's membership as a teenager of the hitler youth , as he paid a historic visit to holy sites in jerusalem .
vatican spokesman , federico lombardi , said the pontiff had " never , never , never " belonged to the organization , but later changed his version , saying that he had been a member but his membership was compulsory .
in his own 1997 memoirs , pope benedict had said he had been registered with the hitler youth while he was at a seminary .
the latest row comes on the heels of comments by some israeli leaders complaining that the pope did not go far enough in offering emotion in remarks he made on monday at the yad vashem memorial to the jewish dead of the holocaust . sp , pfd reuters / ap / dpa send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de pope continues balancing act on tour of holy sites in jerusalem pope benedict xvi became the first pope to enter a politically-charged shrine in jerusalem sacred to jews and muslims .
the pope continues to face criticism on the second day of a week-long visit to the region .
-lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- pope continues middle east tour as criticism of yad vashem speech grows pope benedict xvi used a service at jerusalem 's yad vashem memorial to express " deep compassion " for the victims of the holocaust .
but jewish leaders in germany and israel criticized the pope for not going far enough .
-lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- pope seeks to salve holocaust wounds pope benedict xvi is on his first trip to israel .
he has used a speech to seek to heal the wounds created by , among other things , his reinstatement of a holocaust-denying bishop .
-lrb- 11.05.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic pope benedict calls israel 's security barrier in the west bank " tragic " 9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
pope visits west bank , calls for palestinian statehood -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 01.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de religion -pipe- 13.05.2009 pope visits west bank , calls for palestinian statehood großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : palestinians gave an enthusiastic welcome to pope benedict during a visit to bethlehem , pope benedict xvi voiced support for palestinian aspirations of an independent homeland and said he hoped the wall that israel has erected in and around the west bank would come down . speaking in bethlehem after holding a mass in manger square , the pope pressed calls to remove the wall and watch towers that seal bethlehem off from jerusalem .
" towering over us ... is a stark reminder of the stalemate that relations between israelis and palestinians seem to have reached - the wall , " the pope said as he stood in the shadow of israel 's separation wall in the aida refugee camp , which houses refugees from israel 's creation in 1948 .
the pope said it 's " understandable that palestinians feel frustrated , " adding that " their legitimate aspirations for permanent homes , for an independent palestinian state , remain unfulfilled . "
the camp is home to around 5,000 refugees .
bildunterschrift : palestinian children at the aida refugee camp next to a poster of the pope " i have seen , ... overshadowing much of bethlehem , the wall that intrudes into your territories , separating neighbors and dividing families , " the pope said in the town believed to be the birthplace of jesus christ .
" although walls can be easily built , we all know that they do not last forever .
they can be taken down . "
pope lends support to palestinian statehood earlier , thousands greeted the pope 's black limousine as he made his way to manger square where he said mass for about 5,000 people next to the church of the nativity that marks the spot where christians believe jesus was born to mary in a stable .
one of the aims of the pope 's visit is to attempt to preserve a shrinking christian presence in the middle east .
the christian population of bethlehem has decreased dramatically in recent years through emigration . thousands of christians left the town after a palestinian uprising in 2000 and was met by an israeli security clampdown and the start of construction of the barrier .
the pope acknowledged israel 's security concerns as well as palestinian suffering , and urged people not to " resort to acts of violence or terrorism . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : pope benedict xvi outside of the church of the nativity in bethlehem the pope said his heart went out to those caught up in the conflict in gaza , adding that he was praying for an end to the israeli embargo of the gaza strip .
earlier , the pontiff told palestinian president mahmoud abbas that he backed the creation of a palestinian state .
" the holy see supports the right of your people to a sovereign palestinian homeland in the land of your forefathers , secure and at peace with your neighbors , within internationally recognized borders , " he said .
the pope 's comments are the vatican 's strongest and most symbolic public backing yet for an independent palestinian state .
the two-state solution is supported by abbas , arab nations and western powers .
but the new israeli prime minister , benjamin netanyahu , has declined so far to endorse it .
visit dogged by controversy the german-born pope 's week-long trip to the middle east , his first visit to the region , has not been without controversy .
on tuesday , a row erupted over the pope 's membership as a teenager of the hitler youth , as he paid a historic visit to holy sites in jerusalem .
vatican spokesman , federico lombardi , said the pontiff had " never , never , never " belonged to the organization , but later changed his version , saying that he had been a member but his membership was compulsory .
in his own 1997 memoirs , pope benedict had said he had been registered with the hitler youth while he was at a seminary .
the latest row comes on the heels of comments by some israeli leaders complaining that the pope did not go far enough in offering emotion in remarks he made on monday at the yad vashem memorial to the jewish dead of the holocaust . sp , pfd reuters / ap / dpa send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de pope continues balancing act on tour of holy sites in jerusalem pope benedict xvi became the first pope to enter a politically-charged shrine in jerusalem sacred to jews and muslims .
the pope continues to face criticism on the second day of a week-long visit to the region .
-lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- pope continues middle east tour as criticism of yad vashem speech grows pope benedict xvi used a service at jerusalem 's yad vashem memorial to express " deep compassion " for the victims of the holocaust .
but jewish leaders in germany and israel criticized the pope for not going far enough .
-lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- pope seeks to salve holocaust wounds pope benedict xvi is on his first trip to israel .
he has used a speech to seek to heal the wounds created by , among other things , his reinstatement of a holocaust-denying bishop .
-lrb- 11.05.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic pope benedict calls israel 's security barrier in the west bank " tragic " feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
pope visits west bank , calls for palestinian statehood -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 22.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de religion -pipe- 13.05.2009 pope visits west bank , calls for palestinian statehood großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : palestinians gave an enthusiastic welcome to pope benedict during a visit to bethlehem , pope benedict xvi voiced support for palestinian aspirations of an independent homeland and said he hoped the wall that israel has erected in and around the west bank would come down . speaking in bethlehem after holding a mass in manger square , the pope pressed calls to remove the wall and watch towers that seal bethlehem off from jerusalem .
" towering over us ... is a stark reminder of the stalemate that relations between israelis and palestinians seem to have reached - the wall , " the pope said as he stood in the shadow of israel 's separation wall in the aida refugee camp , which houses refugees from israel 's creation in 1948 .
the pope said it 's " understandable that palestinians feel frustrated , " adding that " their legitimate aspirations for permanent homes , for an independent palestinian state , remain unfulfilled . "
the camp is home to around 5,000 refugees .
bildunterschrift : palestinian children at the aida refugee camp next to a poster of the pope " i have seen , ... overshadowing much of bethlehem , the wall that intrudes into your territories , separating neighbors and dividing families , " the pope said in the town believed to be the birthplace of jesus christ .
" although walls can be easily built , we all know that they do not last forever .
they can be taken down . "
pope lends support to palestinian statehood earlier , thousands greeted the pope 's black limousine as he made his way to manger square where he said mass for about 5,000 people next to the church of the nativity that marks the spot where christians believe jesus was born to mary in a stable .
one of the aims of the pope 's visit is to attempt to preserve a shrinking christian presence in the middle east .
the christian population of bethlehem has decreased dramatically in recent years through emigration . thousands of christians left the town after a palestinian uprising in 2000 and was met by an israeli security clampdown and the start of construction of the barrier .
the pope acknowledged israel 's security concerns as well as palestinian suffering , and urged people not to " resort to acts of violence or terrorism . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : pope benedict xvi outside of the church of the nativity in bethlehem the pope said his heart went out to those caught up in the conflict in gaza , adding that he was praying for an end to the israeli embargo of the gaza strip .
earlier , the pontiff told palestinian president mahmoud abbas that he backed the creation of a palestinian state .
" the holy see supports the right of your people to a sovereign palestinian homeland in the land of your forefathers , secure and at peace with your neighbors , within internationally recognized borders , " he said .
the pope 's comments are the vatican 's strongest and most symbolic public backing yet for an independent palestinian state .
the two-state solution is supported by abbas , arab nations and western powers .
but the new israeli prime minister , benjamin netanyahu , has declined so far to endorse it .
visit dogged by controversy the german-born pope 's week-long trip to the middle east , his first visit to the region , has not been without controversy .
on tuesday , a row erupted over the pope 's membership as a teenager of the hitler youth , as he paid a historic visit to holy sites in jerusalem .
vatican spokesman , federico lombardi , said the pontiff had " never , never , never " belonged to the organization , but later changed his version , saying that he had been a member but his membership was compulsory .
in his own 1997 memoirs , pope benedict had said he had been registered with the hitler youth while he was at a seminary .
the latest row comes on the heels of comments by some israeli leaders complaining that the pope did not go far enough in offering emotion in remarks he made on monday at the yad vashem memorial to the jewish dead of the holocaust . sp , pfd reuters / ap / dpa send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de pope continues balancing act on tour of holy sites in jerusalem pope benedict xvi became the first pope to enter a politically-charged shrine in jerusalem sacred to jews and muslims .
the pope continues to face criticism on the second day of a week-long visit to the region .
-lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- pope continues middle east tour as criticism of yad vashem speech grows pope benedict xvi used a service at jerusalem 's yad vashem memorial to express " deep compassion " for the victims of the holocaust .
but jewish leaders in germany and israel criticized the pope for not going far enough .
-lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- pope seeks to salve holocaust wounds pope benedict xvi is on his first trip to israel .
he has used a speech to seek to heal the wounds created by , among other things , his reinstatement of a holocaust-denying bishop .
-lrb- 11.05.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic pope benedict calls israel 's security barrier in the west bank " tragic " feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
pope visits west bank , calls for palestinian statehood -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 24.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de religion -pipe- 13.05.2009 pope visits west bank , calls for palestinian statehood großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : palestinians gave an enthusiastic welcome to pope benedict during a visit to bethlehem , pope benedict xvi voiced support for palestinian aspirations of an independent homeland and said he hoped the wall that israel has erected in and around the west bank would come down . speaking in bethlehem after holding a mass in manger square , the pope pressed calls to remove the wall and watch towers that seal bethlehem off from jerusalem .
" towering over us ... is a stark reminder of the stalemate that relations between israelis and palestinians seem to have reached - the wall , " the pope said as he stood in the shadow of israel 's separation wall in the aida refugee camp , which houses refugees from israel 's creation in 1948 .
the pope said it 's " understandable that palestinians feel frustrated , " adding that " their legitimate aspirations for permanent homes , for an independent palestinian state , remain unfulfilled . "
the camp is home to around 5,000 refugees .
bildunterschrift : palestinian children at the aida refugee camp next to a poster of the pope " i have seen , ... overshadowing much of bethlehem , the wall that intrudes into your territories , separating neighbors and dividing families , " the pope said in the town believed to be the birthplace of jesus christ .
" although walls can be easily built , we all know that they do not last forever .
they can be taken down . "
pope lends support to palestinian statehood earlier , thousands greeted the pope 's black limousine as he made his way to manger square where he said mass for about 5,000 people next to the church of the nativity that marks the spot where christians believe jesus was born to mary in a stable .
one of the aims of the pope 's visit is to attempt to preserve a shrinking christian presence in the middle east .
the christian population of bethlehem has decreased dramatically in recent years through emigration . thousands of christians left the town after a palestinian uprising in 2000 and was met by an israeli security clampdown and the start of construction of the barrier .
the pope acknowledged israel 's security concerns as well as palestinian suffering , and urged people not to " resort to acts of violence or terrorism . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : pope benedict xvi outside of the church of the nativity in bethlehem the pope said his heart went out to those caught up in the conflict in gaza , adding that he was praying for an end to the israeli embargo of the gaza strip .
earlier , the pontiff told palestinian president mahmoud abbas that he backed the creation of a palestinian state .
" the holy see supports the right of your people to a sovereign palestinian homeland in the land of your forefathers , secure and at peace with your neighbors , within internationally recognized borders , " he said .
the pope 's comments are the vatican 's strongest and most symbolic public backing yet for an independent palestinian state .
the two-state solution is supported by abbas , arab nations and western powers .
but the new israeli prime minister , benjamin netanyahu , has declined so far to endorse it .
visit dogged by controversy the german-born pope 's week-long trip to the middle east , his first visit to the region , has not been without controversy .
on tuesday , a row erupted over the pope 's membership as a teenager of the hitler youth , as he paid a historic visit to holy sites in jerusalem .
vatican spokesman , federico lombardi , said the pontiff had " never , never , never " belonged to the organization , but later changed his version , saying that he had been a member but his membership was compulsory .
in his own 1997 memoirs , pope benedict had said he had been registered with the hitler youth while he was at a seminary .
the latest row comes on the heels of comments by some israeli leaders complaining that the pope did not go far enough in offering emotion in remarks he made on monday at the yad vashem memorial to the jewish dead of the holocaust . sp , pfd reuters / ap / dpa send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de pope continues balancing act on tour of holy sites in jerusalem pope benedict xvi became the first pope to enter a politically-charged shrine in jerusalem sacred to jews and muslims .
the pope continues to face criticism on the second day of a week-long visit to the region .
-lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- pope continues middle east tour as criticism of yad vashem speech grows pope benedict xvi used a service at jerusalem 's yad vashem memorial to express " deep compassion " for the victims of the holocaust .
but jewish leaders in germany and israel criticized the pope for not going far enough .
-lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- pope seeks to salve holocaust wounds pope benedict xvi is on his first trip to israel .
he has used a speech to seek to heal the wounds created by , among other things , his reinstatement of a holocaust-denying bishop .
-lrb- 11.05.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic pope benedict calls israel 's security barrier in the west bank " tragic " feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
pope visits west bank , calls for palestinian statehood -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 21.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de religion -pipe- 13.05.2009 pope visits west bank , calls for palestinian statehood großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : palestinians gave an enthusiastic welcome to pope benedict during a visit to bethlehem , pope benedict xvi voiced support for palestinian aspirations of an independent homeland and said he hoped the wall that israel has erected in and around the west bank would come down . speaking in bethlehem after holding a mass in manger square , the pope pressed calls to remove the wall and watch towers that seal bethlehem off from jerusalem .
" towering over us ... is a stark reminder of the stalemate that relations between israelis and palestinians seem to have reached - the wall , " the pope said as he stood in the shadow of israel 's separation wall in the aida refugee camp , which houses refugees from israel 's creation in 1948 .
the pope said it 's " understandable that palestinians feel frustrated , " adding that " their legitimate aspirations for permanent homes , for an independent palestinian state , remain unfulfilled . "
the camp is home to around 5,000 refugees .
bildunterschrift : palestinian children at the aida refugee camp next to a poster of the pope " i have seen , ... overshadowing much of bethlehem , the wall that intrudes into your territories , separating neighbors and dividing families , " the pope said in the town believed to be the birthplace of jesus christ .
" although walls can be easily built , we all know that they do not last forever .
they can be taken down . "
pope lends support to palestinian statehood earlier , thousands greeted the pope 's black limousine as he made his way to manger square where he said mass for about 5,000 people next to the church of the nativity that marks the spot where christians believe jesus was born to mary in a stable .
one of the aims of the pope 's visit is to attempt to preserve a shrinking christian presence in the middle east .
the christian population of bethlehem has decreased dramatically in recent years through emigration . thousands of christians left the town after a palestinian uprising in 2000 and was met by an israeli security clampdown and the start of construction of the barrier .
the pope acknowledged israel 's security concerns as well as palestinian suffering , and urged people not to " resort to acts of violence or terrorism . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : pope benedict xvi outside of the church of the nativity in bethlehem the pope said his heart went out to those caught up in the conflict in gaza , adding that he was praying for an end to the israeli embargo of the gaza strip .
earlier , the pontiff told palestinian president mahmoud abbas that he backed the creation of a palestinian state .
" the holy see supports the right of your people to a sovereign palestinian homeland in the land of your forefathers , secure and at peace with your neighbors , within internationally recognized borders , " he said .
the pope 's comments are the vatican 's strongest and most symbolic public backing yet for an independent palestinian state .
the two-state solution is supported by abbas , arab nations and western powers .
but the new israeli prime minister , benjamin netanyahu , has declined so far to endorse it .
visit dogged by controversy the german-born pope 's week-long trip to the middle east , his first visit to the region , has not been without controversy .
on tuesday , a row erupted over the pope 's membership as a teenager of the hitler youth , as he paid a historic visit to holy sites in jerusalem .
vatican spokesman , federico lombardi , said the pontiff had " never , never , never " belonged to the organization , but later changed his version , saying that he had been a member but his membership was compulsory .
in his own 1997 memoirs , pope benedict had said he had been registered with the hitler youth while he was at a seminary .
the latest row comes on the heels of comments by some israeli leaders complaining that the pope did not go far enough in offering emotion in remarks he made on monday at the yad vashem memorial to the jewish dead of the holocaust . sp , pfd reuters / ap / dpa send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de pope continues balancing act on tour of holy sites in jerusalem pope benedict xvi became the first pope to enter a politically-charged shrine in jerusalem sacred to jews and muslims .
the pope continues to face criticism on the second day of a week-long visit to the region .
-lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- pope continues middle east tour as criticism of yad vashem speech grows pope benedict xvi used a service at jerusalem 's yad vashem memorial to express " deep compassion " for the victims of the holocaust .
but jewish leaders in germany and israel criticized the pope for not going far enough .
-lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- pope seeks to salve holocaust wounds pope benedict xvi is on his first trip to israel .
he has used a speech to seek to heal the wounds created by , among other things , his reinstatement of a holocaust-denying bishop .
-lrb- 11.05.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic pope benedict calls israel 's security barrier in the west bank " tragic " 9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
van gaal to become next bayern munich coach -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages dw-world.de deutsche welle about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search dw-world : extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.12.2009 home news world germany europe business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany map weather german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de soccer -pipe- 13.05.2009 van gaal to become next bayern munich coach großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : futuer bayern munich head coach louis van gaal bayern munich are set to sign dutch coach louis van gaal ending weeks of speculation over who will be in charge of the bundesliga soccer club next season . bayern munich have confirmed that dutch coach louis van gaal will join the defending bundesliga champions as head coach on a two-year contract as of july 1 .
he is to replace interim coach jupp heynkes , who took over after juergen klinsmann was fired last month .
the coach who has led az alkmaar to their first dutch league title since 1981 , had been bayern 's first choice for the job . other managers under consideration are said to have included inter manager jose mourinho and arsenal 's arsene wenger .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bayern chairman karl-heinz rummenigge munich pleased with choice " we are happy that in louis van gaal we have managed to secure such an experienced and successful coach for bayern munich , " said bayern chairman karl-heinz rummenigge in a statement posted on the club 's website on wednesday .
having steered ajax to the champions league title in 1995 , van gaal , 57 , has a wealth of experience having also led the giants from amsterdam to consecutive dutch titles in 1994 , 1995 and 1996 .
after leading barcelona to back-to-back spanish league titles in 1998 and 1999 , the only blip in an otherwise exceptional career was when he took charge of the netherlands in 2000 .
when the dutch failed to reach the world cup finals in japan and south korea in 2002 , he was replaced by dick advocaat .
van gaal inherits a squad that is level on points with bundesliga leaders wolfsburg with two games remaining in the season .
he is expected to be closely involved in transfer decisions at the end of this season .
in return for alkmaar agreeing to release van gaal before his contract expires , bayern have agreed to play a friendly against alkmaar in the summer of 2010 without charging a fee . nt / pfd , sid / reuters / afp send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
feedback feedback : send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
picture of the day dw-tv europe live journal - with the week we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live audio : living in germany audio : audio : listen live blog ballspiel keeps up on the bundesliga , while eying the other european leagues .
externer link , ã  â ¶ ffnet in neuem fenster : ballspiel german soccer read up on bundesliga teams , follow the action via live ticker and pick favorites at dw-world.de. externer link , ã  â ¶ ffnet in neuem fenster : pick the winners externer link , ã  â ¶ ffnet in neuem fenster : live ticker soccer world cup 2010 match table © dw 2009 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
pope visits west bank , calls for palestinian statehood -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages dw-world.de deutsche welle about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search dw-world : extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.12.2009 home news world germany europe business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany map weather german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de religion -pipe- 13.05.2009 pope visits west bank , calls for palestinian statehood großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : palestinians gave an enthusiastic welcome to pope benedict during a visit to bethlehem , pope benedict xvi voiced support for palestinian aspirations of an independent homeland and said he hoped the wall that israel has erected in and around the west bank would come down . speaking in bethlehem after holding a mass in manger square , the pope pressed calls to remove the wall and watch towers that seal bethlehem off from jerusalem .
" towering over us ... is a stark reminder of the stalemate that relations between israelis and palestinians seem to have reached - the wall , " the pope said as he stood in the shadow of israel 's separation wall in the aida refugee camp , which houses refugees from israel 's creation in 1948 .
the pope said it 's " understandable that palestinians feel frustrated , " adding that " their legitimate aspirations for permanent homes , for an independent palestinian state , remain unfulfilled . "
the camp is home to around 5,000 refugees .
bildunterschrift : palestinian children at the aida refugee camp next to a poster of the pope " i have seen , ... overshadowing much of bethlehem , the wall that intrudes into your territories , separating neighbors and dividing families , " the pope said in the town believed to be the birthplace of jesus christ .
" although walls can be easily built , we all know that they do not last forever .
they can be taken down . "
pope lends support to palestinian statehood earlier , thousands greeted the pope 's black limousine as he made his way to manger square where he said mass for about 5,000 people next to the church of the nativity that marks the spot where christians believe jesus was born to mary in a stable .
one of the aims of the pope 's visit is to attempt to preserve a shrinking christian presence in the middle east .
the christian population of bethlehem has decreased dramatically in recent years through emigration . thousands of christians left the town after a palestinian uprising in 2000 and was met by an israeli security clampdown and the start of construction of the barrier .
the pope acknowledged israel 's security concerns as well as palestinian suffering , and urged people not to " resort to acts of violence or terrorism . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : pope benedict xvi outside of the church of the nativity in bethlehem the pope said his heart went out to those caught up in the conflict in gaza , adding that he was praying for an end to the israeli embargo of the gaza strip .
earlier , the pontiff told palestinian president mahmoud abbas that he backed the creation of a palestinian state .
" the holy see supports the right of your people to a sovereign palestinian homeland in the land of your forefathers , secure and at peace with your neighbors , within internationally recognized borders , " he said .
the pope 's comments are the vatican 's strongest and most symbolic public backing yet for an independent palestinian state .
the two-state solution is supported by abbas , arab nations and western powers .
but the new israeli prime minister , benjamin netanyahu , has declined so far to endorse it .
visit dogged by controversy the german-born pope 's week-long trip to the middle east , his first visit to the region , has not been without controversy .
on tuesday , a row erupted over the pope 's membership as a teenager of the hitler youth , as he paid a historic visit to holy sites in jerusalem .
vatican spokesman , federico lombardi , said the pontiff had " never , never , never " belonged to the organization , but later changed his version , saying that he had been a member but his membership was compulsory .
in his own 1997 memoirs , pope benedict had said he had been registered with the hitler youth while he was at a seminary .
the latest row comes on the heels of comments by some israeli leaders complaining that the pope did not go far enough in offering emotion in remarks he made on monday at the yad vashem memorial to the jewish dead of the holocaust . sp , pfd reuters / ap / dpa send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de dw-world : pope continues balancing act on tour of holy sites in jerusalem pope benedict xvi became the first pope to enter a politically-charged shrine in jerusalem sacred to jews and muslims .
the pope continues to face criticism on the second day of a week-long visit to the region .
-lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- dw-world : pope continues middle east tour as criticism of yad vashem speech grows pope benedict xvi used a service at jerusalem 's yad vashem memorial to express " deep compassion " for the victims of the holocaust .
but jewish leaders in germany and israel criticized the pope for not going far enough .
-lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- dw-world : pope seeks to salve holocaust wounds pope benedict xvi is on his first trip to israel .
he has used a speech to seek to heal the wounds created by , among other things , his reinstatement of a holocaust-denying bishop .
-lrb- 11.05.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic video : pope benedict calls israel 's security barrier in the west bank " tragic " feedback feedback : send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour picture of the day dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw-world : dw screensaver dw-world : social bookmarking dw-world : our rss feeds dw-world : dw widgets dw-world : integrated search externer link , ã  â ¶ ffnet in neuem fenster : dw on facebook externer link , ã  â ¶ ffnet in neuem fenster : newsletters externer link , ã  â ¶ ffnet in neuem fenster : netvibes.com the way you want it dw-world : mobile optimized for pdas externer link , ã  â ¶ ffnet in neuem fenster : newsletters news in your inbox externer link , ã  â ¶ ffnet in neuem fenster : audio / video podcasts © dw 2009 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
berlin unveils plan to help rid banks of toxic assets -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages dw-world.de deutsche welle about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search dw-world : extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 05.12.2009 home news world germany german reunification europe business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany study in germany map weather german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de economy -pipe- 13.05.2009 berlin unveils plan to help rid banks of toxic assets großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : banks can now move to clean up their balance sheets the german cabinet has approved a draft law to help rid lenders of an estimated 200 billion euros -lrb- $ 272 billion -rrb- in worthless assets .
banks can swap the assets against guaranteed state loans for up to 20 years . the aim of the " bad bank " plan is to clean up lenders ' balance sheets and restore confidence in the financial sector .
the bill , drafted by finance minister peer steinbrueck , would enable banks to receive state guaranteed loans on commercial terms , in exchange for offloading their troubled assets .
through the government 's financial market stabilization fund , soffin , lenders would be able to swap toxic assets for guaranteed state loans worth 90 percent of the original value of the assets .
lenders would pay an annual fee and be able to " freeze " the assets until better times come along . after a maximum of 20 years , they would have to pay back any losses to the government .
some believe the german banks hold more than 200 billion euros of troubled assets .
" in the interests of the real economy , we are buying time so that the so-called toxic assets can be cleared up , " explained chancellor angela merkel 's chief of staff , thomas de maiziere .
what 's worthless today , may not be tomorrow bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : german finance minister peer steinbrueck says taxpayers will not foot the bill " it 's not clear how toxic these assets really are , " said finance expert , otto salms of the liberal free democrats -lrb- fdp -rrb- .
" some of these assets may well be worth more again once the crisis ends and the economy recovers .
if that 's the case , the banks may end up having to write off much less at a later date than they would if they were forced to liquidate these assets today . "
economic recovery and financial liquidity go hand in hand .
one of the factors that 's been driving the crisis around the world is that banks have stopped lending to each other because they have n't been able to assess the size of the financial black holes on each other 's balance sheets .
berlin hopes that by removing bad holdings from balance sheets banks will start lending to each other again , as well as to businesses and consumers .
this in turn would help kick-start the german economy , the biggest in europe , which is expected to shrink by six percent this year .
shareholders , not taxpayers , to bear the burden under the plan , which comes five months before a general election , any liabilities at the end of maturity would accrue to shareholders , and not to the taxpayer .
" it 's only right that whoever made profits through taking high risks over the years , must also be prepared to take the losses , " explained financial expert johannes kahrs , of the social democrats -lrb- spd -rrb- , the coalition partners of chancellor angela merkel 's christian democrats -lrb- cdu -rrb- . "
i think that 's reasonable , it 's a basic economic principle . "
some critics say the scheme is flawed because it is voluntary .
banks are not to be forced to dispose of toxic assets through the soffin national rescue program .
the government insists that " good banks " are interesting for investors and a cleaned up , reliable balance sheet will attract capital .
the draft legislation still has to go before both the lower and upper houses of parliament , the bundestag und bundesrat . wl / pfd / afp / ard send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de dw-world : financial watchdog chief calls for " bad bank " for toxic assets the head of a watchdog committee of germany 's bank stabilization fund has called for the creation of a " bad bank " that could buy up toxic assets and unblock interbank lending .
-lrb- 11.01.2009 -rrb- dw-world : us mortgage crisis hits german banks the battered subprime mortgage market in the united states is increasingly impacting the us economy .
now , losses from risky us home loans to borrowers with poor credit histories have swept across the atlantic .
-lrb- 31.07.2007 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic video : the german cabinet backs plan to relieve the country 's banks of their toxic assets feedback feedback : send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
picture of the day dw-tv europe live journal - with in depth we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live audio : newslink audio : audio : listen live feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
picture gallery a historical flash gallery leads you through from the division of germany to reunification .
externer link , ã  â ¶ ffnet in neuem fenster : german path to unity picture gallery demolished treasures east germany made significant contributions to modern architecture - but many have been torn down .
quiz of the week win a prize review the week 's articles for a chance to win a prize .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service dw-world : video on demand dw-world : audio on demand dw-world : audio / video podcasting © dw 2009 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany agrees on bad bank scheme -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages dw-world.de deutsche welle about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search dw-world : extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 05.12.2009 home news world germany german reunification europe business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany study in germany map weather german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de banking -pipe- 13.05.2009 germany agrees on bad bank scheme großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : steinbrueck wants to reassure voters they wo n't wear the cost of the bail-out the german cabinet has agreed on a plan to clean up toxic assets from bank balance sheets .
in the run-up to the election , the issue has become highly politically charged . the scheme , which forms a key element of berlin 's bid to turn europe 's biggest economy around , would allow banks to park their toxic assets for up to 20 years , in specially created institutions .
banks would receive government backed bonds in return .
finance minister peer steinbrueck said the banks would still be held responsible for the toxic assets and , in the long run , they would bear the cost of transferring and holding the assets .
just five months out from a national election , the issue has proved politically prickly .
politicians are torn between the pressing need to revive germany 's foundering banking sector and burdening taxpayers with a huge bank bailout .
berlin hopes that once the toxic holdings have been removed from banks ' balance sheets , they will begin lending to each other and to businesses and consumers again .
that is meant to jolt the german economy back to life .
economic forecasters predict 6 percent shrinkage in europe 's biggest economy in 2009 . ch / ncy / afp / dpa send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de dw-world : german government steps in to clean up banks ' toxic assets the german government has drawn up a draft plan to clean up toxic assets from banks ' balance sheets , a key part of berlin 's bid to turn around europe 's biggest economy .
-lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- dw-world : koehler blasts banks for keeping quiet over financial crisis in run up to presidential race , german president horst koehler has hit out at bankers ' greed , but is optimistic that the dark cloud of global financial crisis will have a silver lining .
-lrb- 02.05.2009 -rrb- dw-world : leaked list reveals german banks have 816 billion euros in toxic assets a german newspaper has published a leaked list from the bafin financial oversight group that shows german banks are weighed down under 816 billion euros in toxic assets .
-lrb- 25.04.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic video : sweden 's bad bank scheme video : what is a bad bank ?
feedback feedback : send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
picture of the day dw-tv europe live quadriga - the international talk show we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live audio : news audio : audio : listen live feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
picture gallery a historical flash gallery leads you through from the division of germany to reunification .
externer link , ã  â ¶ ffnet in neuem fenster : german path to unity picture gallery demolished treasures east germany made significant contributions to modern architecture - but many have been torn down .
quiz of the week win a prize review the week 's articles for a chance to win a prize .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service dw-world : video on demand dw-world : audio on demand dw-world : audio / video podcasting © dw 2009 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
sobibor survivor : demjanjuk trial will go down in history -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.05.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages dw-world.de deutsche welle about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search dw-world : extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.12.2009 home news world germany europe business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany map weather german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de world war ii -pipe- 13.05.2009 sobibor survivor : demjanjuk trial will go down in history großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some 250,000 jews , gypsies and political prisoners were murdered in sobibor 's gas chambers deutsche welle spoke with thomas blatt , one of few to escape from the nazi-run sobibor extermination camp .
he says he does n't care whether john demjanjuk is jailed for working at the camp , just that he tells the truth . thomas blatt was one of the few to survive the sobibor extermination camp in nazi-occupied poland during world war ii .
the 82-year-old is now a key witness in the munich trial of john demjanjuk , who is alleged to have been a guard at sobibor .
deutsche welle : why did you decide to come to germany for this trial ?
thomas blatt : because when i escaped from sobibor , i promised myself that if i survived , i will do everything to tell the story of sobibor .
and that 's what i 'm doing .
and i know that demjanjuk knows a lot , because demjanjuk was in the middle of the holocaust .
and he denies that it is him , that he was not a guard at sobibor , but he was .
i do n't care if demjanjuk is in jail or not .
i do care that he should tell the truth .
and the truth is , that he was a guard at sobibor .
sobibor was not a simple concentration camp .
sobibor was an extermination camp .
at sobibor the guards were simple murderers .
in a concentration camp a guard was a guard , … responsible -lsb- for preventing -rsb- people from running away .
but at sobibor they were simple murderers .
you said that among the guards at sobibor some were sadistic .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : demjanjuk 's wartime identification card is a major piece of evidence against him i said that they were sadistic and that some guards escaped from sobibor .
but demjanjuk did not escape .
he was there all the time with the nazis .
i do n't say that i -lsb- saw -rsb- him for sure .
-lsb- the guards -rsb- were very sadistic .
and we were more afraid of the guards than we were of the germans .
i 'm sure i know that he was a guard .
it is my duty to tell .
he should tell what sobibor was for .
what will be your reaction if there is not enough evidence to find mr. demjanjuk guilty ?
i believe that he will tell the truth , the way it was in sobibor .
and this will be part of history .
this will be -lsb- something -rsb- for the new generation to learn .
because what he has seen , few people have seen .
i strongly believe he will tell the truth .
and later demjanjuk could go free .
for me his testimony is very important , and that 's why i am in munich following demjanjuk 's story .
i am sorry in a way for demjanjuk .
he 's an old man , 89 years old .
he 's sick , he has a family .
so i 'm sorry in a way .
and i think that many people think the same way : he 's an old man , he 's suffered so much .
but i also see the other side of demjanjuk .
i see him as a terrible sadist , a murderer .
he did n't run away from his work .
interview : michael lawton editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de dw-world : suspected nazi prison camp guard deported to germany the us has deported an alleged former nazi prison camp guard to germany .
jewish leaders hailed john demjanjuk 's deportation , saying they hoped it was n't too late for the 89-year-old to be brought to justice .
-lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- dw-world : opinion : no statute of limitations on horrors of the holocaust after decades of judicial wrangling , the alleged nazi criminal john demjanjuk is to stand trial in germany .
on tuesday he was flown to munich and brought to a prison awaiting trial .
cornelia rabitz has this commentary : -lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- dw-world : us seeks to clear path for demjanjuk deportation , again the us government has sought to clear the way to deport alleged former death camp guard john demjanjuk , just days after a us court postponed his deportation to wait for proof that he is fit to travel to germany .
-lrb- 21.04.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic audio : michael lawton talks to raphael gross of the fritz bauer institute for holocaust studies about john demjanjuk video : nazi war crimes suspect john demjanjuk deported to germany -lrb- 12.05.2009 -rrb- feedback feedback : send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live in focus - sculptor stephan balkenhol we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live audio : news audio : audio : listen live learning by ear educational radio for africa externer link , ã  â ¶ ffnet in neuem fenster : radio for africa news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's newest media partner picture of the day © dw 2009 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
bbc news -pipe- technology -pipe- google unveils ' smarter search ' bbc news / technology graphics version bbc sport home news front page -pipe- africa -pipe- americas -pipe- asia-pacific -pipe- europe -pipe- middle east -pipe- south asia -pipe- uk -pipe- business -pipe- health -pipe- science & environment -pipe- technology -pipe- entertainment -pipe- also in the news -pipe- have your say -pipe- 04:15 gmt , wednesday , 13 may 2009 05:15 uk google unveils ' smarter search ' by maggie shiels technology reporter , bbc news , silicon valley web giant google has unveiled new products that it says will push search in a new direction .
google is using so-called semantic web technology to leverage the underlying data on websites to enhance results .
" the race in search is far from over and innovation and continued improvement is absolutely pivotal , " said google 's marissa mayer .
google said it could not afford to rest on its laurels in the quest to build the perfect search engine .
google has over 63 % of the us market compared with rival yahoo , on 20 % .
" i 've said this many times but search is still in its infancy .
our engineers are worried about what is the next big thing in search and how are they going to find it , " said ms mayer , who is the vice-president of search products and user experience .
she said that last year google had released more than 360 products and in the first quarter of this year it had been 120 .
ms mayer added that this was proof that " google gets better all the time " .
google has in the past said that despite its lead in the marketplace , users were " one click away " from switching to other alternatives .
vanessa fox of searchengineland told the bbc that google 's ability to constantly innovate gave them a leading edge .
" google is saying : ' we have to provide for all searchers and do things at scale . '
it means they have to launch all sorts of features while some companies can concentrate on just one thing .
the key thing behind why they are still ahead is because they are able to innovate at such a pace , " said ms fox .
rich snippets during the searchology event at google 's mountain view headquarters , ms mayer and her team showcased four new products that she said would give users a " different way to look at the web " .
rich snippets are search results that return more information in every listing .
for example , users looking for reviews of a new restaurant might get a " rich snippet " of average review scores , number of reviews and the restaurant 's price range .
" this is a step toward making the whole internet smarter , " said google product manager kavi goel .
rich snippets use the metadata from web pages , such as address information , calendar information and semantic web mark-up specifications , called resource description frameworks .
the use of these so-called microformats allows the search engine to better understand the meaning of data and to employ it more intelligently .
google can understand the relationship between different sets of data , and so can pull the correct address listing of a shop without that information having to be specifically tied together .
google squared one of the more experimental products was called google squared , which will go public in the next month or so .
it takes information from the web and displays it in a spreadsheet in " split seconds " , something ms mayer said would normally take someone half a day to do .
during the demonstration , a query for " small dog " was typed into the search box .
seconds later a table popped up showing photographs of various dogs , their origin , weight and height in a clear and simple layout .
while ms mayer described this product as " transformative " , she would only hint at the specific techniques that google uses to drive this feature .
" i think we can open the kimono a little bit without talking about the computer science behind it .
" what they are basically doing is looking for structures on the web that seem to imply facts .
like something ' is ' something .
" different tables , different structures , and then corroborating the evidence around whether or not something is a fact by looking at whether that fact occurs across pages .
" this is all in the secret sauce of what we are doing and it takes an incredible amount of compute power to create those squares , " said ms mayer .
' refine , filter and view ' google search options is a tool that is aimed at letting users " slice and dice " results so they can manipulate the information and get what they want faster .
they come into play after a normal web search and allow users to drill down into the results by offering an option for different genres like product reviews , forum posts or videos .
other choices include recently added blogs , images , timelines and so on .
ms mayer said this new feature should help people who struggled with the " vexing " problem of exactly what query they should type into the search box .
it is meant to give users the opportunity to " refine , filter and view results in a different way " .
' skymap ' a final feature had ms mayer " reaching for the stars " with an app for mobile phones using the android operating system .
" for a long time here at google we joked could we actually find physical things like keys and now with the power and technology of android , coupled with search , you can see we are starting to find some physical things like stars , " said ms mayer .
skymap displays the constellations .
by using the smart phone 's gps capability , it offers the user a dynamic star map that knows where they are standing and which way they are pointing the feature came about as a result of google 's 20 % time , which allows engineers to spend one-fifth of their time working on pet projects .
the app is now available on the android app market .
" clearly google is still pushing the envelope with all these new additions , " said rob hof , silicon valley editor of business week .
" they are certainly continuing to improve daily .
whether it makes a difference and will stave off the competition , i do n't know .
but they are not standing still . "
ms mayer said keeping the user happy was at the heart of everything they did .
" there is a shoe company called stuart weitzman and their slogan is ' a little obsessed with shoes ' .
" google is a little more than obsessed with search , " confessed ms mayer .
e-mail this to a friend related to this story : ' human error ' hits google search -lrb- 31 jan 09 -pipe- technology -rrb- google unveils customised search -lrb- 20 nov 08 -pipe- technology -rrb- google search finds missing child -lrb- 09 jan 09 -pipe- technology -rrb- google searches track flu spread -lrb- 12 nov 08 -pipe- technology -rrb- google ' goliath ' microsoft says -lrb- 01 oct 08 -pipe- business -rrb- search engine ask gets a facelift -lrb- 06 oct 08 -pipe- technology -rrb- microsoft offers cashback search -lrb- 21 may 08 -pipe- technology -rrb- google overhauls main search page -lrb- 17 may 07 -pipe- technology -rrb- related internet links search engine land google yahoo business week google blog the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites search bbc news : news front page -pipe- africa -pipe- americas -pipe- asia-pacific -pipe- europe -pipe- middle east -pipe- south asia -pipe- uk -pipe- business -pipe- health -pipe- science & environment -pipe- technology -pipe- entertainment -pipe- also in the news -pipe- have your say -pipe- newswatch -pipe- notes -pipe- contact us -pipe- about bbc news -pipe- profiles -pipe- history ^ back to top -pipe- bbc sport home -pipe- bbc homepage -pipe- contact us -pipe- help -pipe- ©
<p>
bbc news -pipe- technology -pipe- google unveils ' smarter search ' british broadcasting corporation home accessibility links skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help bbc news updated every minute of every day one-minute world news news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 04:15 gmt , wednesday , 13 may 2009 05:15 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version google unveils ' smarter search ' by maggie shiels technology reporter , bbc news , silicon valley google says users are becoming more sophisticated at search web giant google has unveiled new products that it says will push search in a new direction .
google is using so-called semantic web technology to leverage the underlying data on websites to enhance results .
" the race in search is far from over and innovation and continued improvement is absolutely pivotal , " said google 's marissa mayer .
google said it could not afford to rest on its laurels in the quest to build the perfect search engine .
google has over 63 % of the us market compared with rival yahoo , on 20 % .
" i 've said this many times but search is still in its infancy .
our engineers are worried about what is the next big thing in search and how are they going to find it , " said ms mayer , who is the vice-president of search products and user experience .
she said that last year google had released more than 360 products and in the first quarter of this year it had been 120 .
ms mayer added that this was proof that " google gets better all the time " .
google has in the past said that despite its lead in the marketplace , users were " one click away " from switching to other alternatives .
vanessa fox of searchengineland told the bbc that google 's ability to constantly innovate gave them a leading edge .
" google is saying : ' we have to provide for all searchers and do things at scale . '
it means they have to launch all sorts of features while some companies can concentrate on just one thing .
the key thing behind why they are still ahead is because they are able to innovate at such a pace , " said ms fox .
rich snippets during the searchology event at google 's mountain view headquarters , ms mayer and her team showcased four new products that she said would give users a " different way to look at the web " .
google squared is still experimental and far from perfect , says the company rich snippets are search results that return more information in every listing .
for example , users looking for reviews of a new restaurant might get a " rich snippet " of average review scores , number of reviews and the restaurant 's price range .
" this is a step toward making the whole internet smarter , " said google product manager kavi goel .
rich snippets use the metadata from web pages , such as address information , calendar information and semantic web mark-up specifications , called resource description frameworks .
the use of these so-called microformats allows the search engine to better understand the meaning of data and to employ it more intelligently .
google can understand the relationship between different sets of data , and so can pull the correct address listing of a shop without that information having to be specifically tied together .
google squared one of the more experimental products was called google squared , which will go public in the next month or so .
it takes information from the web and displays it in a spreadsheet in " split seconds " , something ms mayer said would normally take someone half a day to do .
during the demonstration , a query for " small dog " was typed into the search box .
seconds later a table popped up showing photographs of various dogs , their origin , weight and height in a clear and simple layout .
while ms mayer described this product as " transformative " , she would only hint at the specific techniques that google uses to drive this feature .
" i think we can open the kimono a little bit without talking about the computer science behind it .
" what they are basically doing is looking for structures on the web that seem to imply facts .
like something ' is ' something .
" different tables , different structures , and then corroborating the evidence around whether or not something is a fact by looking at whether that fact occurs across pages .
" this is all in the secret sauce of what we are doing and it takes an incredible amount of compute power to create those squares , " said ms mayer .
' refine , filter and view ' google search options is a tool that is aimed at letting users " slice and dice " results so they can manipulate the information and get what they want faster .
search options is a " tool belt " giving new ways to interact with search they come into play after a normal web search and allow users to drill down into the results by offering an option for different genres like product reviews , forum posts or videos .
other choices include recently added blogs , images , timelines and so on .
ms mayer said this new feature should help people who struggled with the " vexing " problem of exactly what query they should type into the search box .
it is meant to give users the opportunity to " refine , filter and view results in a different way " .
' skymap ' a final feature had ms mayer " reaching for the stars " with an app for mobile phones using the android operating system .
google said it was still working on finding keys but can find the stars " for a long time here at google we joked could we actually find physical things like keys and now with the power and technology of android , coupled with search , you can see we are starting to find some physical things like stars , " said ms mayer .
skymap displays the constellations .
by using the smart phone 's gps capability , it offers the user a dynamic star map that knows where they are standing and which way they are pointing the feature came about as a result of google 's 20 % time , which allows engineers to spend one-fifth of their time working on pet projects .
the app is now available on the android app market .
" clearly google is still pushing the envelope with all these new additions , " said rob hof , silicon valley editor of business week .
" they are certainly continuing to improve daily .
whether it makes a difference and will stave off the competition , i do n't know .
but they are not standing still . "
ms mayer said keeping the user happy was at the heart of everything they did .
" there is a shoe company called stuart weitzman and their slogan is ' a little obsessed with shoes ' .
" google is a little more than obsessed with search , " confessed ms mayer .
bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
e-mail this to a friend printable version print sponsor see also ' human error ' hits google search 31 jan 09 -pipe- technology google unveils customised search 20 nov 08 -pipe- technology google search finds missing child 09 jan 09 -pipe- technology google searches track flu spread 12 nov 08 -pipe- technology google ' goliath ' microsoft says 01 oct 08 -pipe- business search engine ask gets a facelift 06 oct 08 -pipe- technology microsoft offers cashback search 21 may 08 -pipe- technology google overhauls main search page 17 may 07 -pipe- technology related internet links search engine land google yahoo business week google blog the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top technology stories us lifts lid on wikileaks probe bing gains market share in search ' virtual human ' makes xbox debut most popular stories now shared read watched / listened jellyfish attack destroys salmon who needs gigabit broadband ?
most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened several injured in istanbul blast what was jon stewart 's rally in washington all about ?
yemen holds student in bomb probe riot police disperse illegal rave karzai criticises us-russia raid ryanair ends belfast city flights farewell to shanghai 's huge expo miniature livers ' grown in lab ' honduras football attack kills 14 brazil to choose next president most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened sweden 's new luxury hotel high among the trees one-minute world news future of the mouse is up in the air working out with san francisco 's cheerleaders korean family reunions go ahead ' why we came to jon stewart 's rally ' footage shows tsunami devastation planning inquiry to rule on house mexico caught in bloody anti-drugs war kinsella 's anti-knife crime plea most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis planning an exit attacks by afghan soldiers pose nato problems sanction evasion ?
how iran has been registering ships in the isle of man cultural pride taiwan 's efforts to revive indigenous languages most popular now most popular now -pipe- 60,486 people are reading stories on the site right now . " ; skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles widgets & alerts news feeds podcasts mobile search term : bbc.co.uk navigation news sport weather travel tv radio more a to f cbbc cbeebies food h to le health history learning lo to z nations & local music science & nature popular links merlin strictly full a-z of bbc sites back to start of navigation site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmx the bbc is not responsible for the content of external sites .
read more .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- technology -pipe- google unveils ' smarter search ' british broadcasting corporation home accessibility links mobile version skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help bbc news updated every minute of every day one-minute world news news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 04:15 gmt , wednesday , 13 may 2009 05:15 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version google unveils ' smarter search ' by maggie shiels technology reporter , bbc news , silicon valley google says users are becoming more sophisticated at search web giant google has unveiled new products that it says will push search in a new direction .
google is using so-called semantic web technology to leverage the underlying data on websites to enhance results .
" the race in search is far from over and innovation and continued improvement is absolutely pivotal , " said google 's marissa mayer .
google said it could not afford to rest on its laurels in the quest to build the perfect search engine .
google has over 63 % of the us market compared with rival yahoo , on 20 % .
" i 've said this many times but search is still in its infancy .
our engineers are worried about what is the next big thing in search and how are they going to find it , " said ms mayer , who is the vice-president of search products and user experience .
she said that last year google had released more than 360 products and in the first quarter of this year it had been 120 .
ms mayer added that this was proof that " google gets better all the time " .
google has in the past said that despite its lead in the marketplace , users were " one click away " from switching to other alternatives .
vanessa fox of searchengineland told the bbc that google 's ability to constantly innovate gave them a leading edge .
" google is saying : ' we have to provide for all searchers and do things at scale . '
it means they have to launch all sorts of features while some companies can concentrate on just one thing .
the key thing behind why they are still ahead is because they are able to innovate at such a pace , " said ms fox .
rich snippets during the searchology event at google 's mountain view headquarters , ms mayer and her team showcased four new products that she said would give users a " different way to look at the web " .
google squared is still experimental and far from perfect , says the company rich snippets are search results that return more information in every listing .
for example , users looking for reviews of a new restaurant might get a " rich snippet " of average review scores , number of reviews and the restaurant 's price range .
" this is a step toward making the whole internet smarter , " said google product manager kavi goel .
rich snippets use the metadata from web pages , such as address information , calendar information and semantic web mark-up specifications , called resource description frameworks .
the use of these so-called microformats allows the search engine to better understand the meaning of data and to employ it more intelligently .
google can understand the relationship between different sets of data , and so can pull the correct address listing of a shop without that information having to be specifically tied together .
google squared one of the more experimental products was called google squared , which will go public in the next month or so .
it takes information from the web and displays it in a spreadsheet in " split seconds " , something ms mayer said would normally take someone half a day to do .
during the demonstration , a query for " small dog " was typed into the search box .
seconds later a table popped up showing photographs of various dogs , their origin , weight and height in a clear and simple layout .
while ms mayer described this product as " transformative " , she would only hint at the specific techniques that google uses to drive this feature .
" i think we can open the kimono a little bit without talking about the computer science behind it .
" what they are basically doing is looking for structures on the web that seem to imply facts .
like something ' is ' something .
" different tables , different structures , and then corroborating the evidence around whether or not something is a fact by looking at whether that fact occurs across pages .
" this is all in the secret sauce of what we are doing and it takes an incredible amount of compute power to create those squares , " said ms mayer .
' refine , filter and view ' google search options is a tool that is aimed at letting users " slice and dice " results so they can manipulate the information and get what they want faster .
search options is a " tool belt " giving new ways to interact with search they come into play after a normal web search and allow users to drill down into the results by offering an option for different genres like product reviews , forum posts or videos .
other choices include recently added blogs , images , timelines and so on .
ms mayer said this new feature should help people who struggled with the " vexing " problem of exactly what query they should type into the search box .
it is meant to give users the opportunity to " refine , filter and view results in a different way " .
' skymap ' a final feature had ms mayer " reaching for the stars " with an app for mobile phones using the android operating system .
google said it was still working on finding keys but can find the stars " for a long time here at google we joked could we actually find physical things like keys and now with the power and technology of android , coupled with search , you can see we are starting to find some physical things like stars , " said ms mayer .
skymap displays the constellations .
by using the smart phone 's gps capability , it offers the user a dynamic star map that knows where they are standing and which way they are pointing the feature came about as a result of google 's 20 % time , which allows engineers to spend one-fifth of their time working on pet projects .
the app is now available on the android app market .
" clearly google is still pushing the envelope with all these new additions , " said rob hof , silicon valley editor of business week .
" they are certainly continuing to improve daily .
whether it makes a difference and will stave off the competition , i do n't know .
but they are not standing still . "
ms mayer said keeping the user happy was at the heart of everything they did .
" there is a shoe company called stuart weitzman and their slogan is ' a little obsessed with shoes ' .
" google is a little more than obsessed with search , " confessed ms mayer .
bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
e-mail this to a friend printable version print sponsor see also ' human error ' hits google search 31 jan 09 -pipe- technology google unveils customised search 20 nov 08 -pipe- technology google search finds missing child 09 jan 09 -pipe- technology google searches track flu spread 12 nov 08 -pipe- technology google ' goliath ' microsoft says 01 oct 08 -pipe- business search engine ask gets a facelift 06 oct 08 -pipe- technology microsoft offers cashback search 21 may 08 -pipe- technology google overhauls main search page 17 may 07 -pipe- technology related internet links search engine land google yahoo business week google blog the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top technology stories us lifts lid on wikileaks probe bing gains market share in search ' virtual human ' makes xbox debut most popular stories now shared read watched / listened taliban targets : women , children , foreigners india country profile housing market in ' spring bounce ' most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened spectators killed at us car race taliban targets : women , children , foreigners ' jarhead ' bear gets out of a jam russia ban on grain export begins japan cabinet shuns wwii shrine celebrations as princess turns 60 in pictures : zurich 's dance parade childhood stress ' causes illness ' lebanon ' kills militant leader ' un urges speedy aid for pakistan most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened ethiopia 's ancient rock churches princess anne on olympics and ageing archive : princess anne 's first public appearance vj day marked in uk ceremonies mexicans seal new kissing record one-minute world news fry ' delighted ' to join canaries rare crocodiles snap at london move new york ' puckers up for peace ' ban ki-moon urges speedy pakistan aid most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis planning an exit attacks by afghan soldiers pose nato problems sanction evasion ?
how iran has been registering ships in the isle of man cultural pride taiwan 's efforts to revive indigenous languages most popular now most popular now -pipe- 41,914 people are reading stories on the site right now . " ; skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles widgets & alerts news feeds podcasts search term : bbc.co.uk navigation news sport weather tv radio more … a to f cbbc cbeebies food h to le health history learning lo to z nations & local music science & nature popular links top gear london 2012 full a-z of bbc sites back to start of navigation site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmx the bbc is not responsible for the content of external sites .
read more .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- technology -pipe- google unveils ' smarter search ' british broadcasting corporation home accessibility links mobile version skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help bbc news updated every minute of every day one-minute world news news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 04:15 gmt , wednesday , 13 may 2009 05:15 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version google unveils ' smarter search ' by maggie shiels technology reporter , bbc news , silicon valley google says users are becoming more sophisticated at search web giant google has unveiled new products that it says will push search in a new direction .
google is using so-called semantic web technology to leverage the underlying data on websites to enhance results .
" the race in search is far from over and innovation and continued improvement is absolutely pivotal , " said google 's marissa mayer .
google said it could not afford to rest on its laurels in the quest to build the perfect search engine .
google has over 63 % of the us market compared with rival yahoo , on 20 % .
" i 've said this many times but search is still in its infancy .
our engineers are worried about what is the next big thing in search and how are they going to find it , " said ms mayer , who is the vice-president of search products and user experience .
she said that last year google had released more than 360 products and in the first quarter of this year it had been 120 .
ms mayer added that this was proof that " google gets better all the time " .
google has in the past said that despite its lead in the marketplace , users were " one click away " from switching to other alternatives .
vanessa fox of searchengineland told the bbc that google 's ability to constantly innovate gave them a leading edge .
" google is saying : ' we have to provide for all searchers and do things at scale . '
it means they have to launch all sorts of features while some companies can concentrate on just one thing .
the key thing behind why they are still ahead is because they are able to innovate at such a pace , " said ms fox .
rich snippets during the searchology event at google 's mountain view headquarters , ms mayer and her team showcased four new products that she said would give users a " different way to look at the web " .
google squared is still experimental and far from perfect , says the company rich snippets are search results that return more information in every listing .
for example , users looking for reviews of a new restaurant might get a " rich snippet " of average review scores , number of reviews and the restaurant 's price range .
" this is a step toward making the whole internet smarter , " said google product manager kavi goel .
rich snippets use the metadata from web pages , such as address information , calendar information and semantic web mark-up specifications , called resource description frameworks .
the use of these so-called microformats allows the search engine to better understand the meaning of data and to employ it more intelligently .
google can understand the relationship between different sets of data , and so can pull the correct address listing of a shop without that information having to be specifically tied together .
google squared one of the more experimental products was called google squared , which will go public in the next month or so .
it takes information from the web and displays it in a spreadsheet in " split seconds " , something ms mayer said would normally take someone half a day to do .
during the demonstration , a query for " small dog " was typed into the search box .
seconds later a table popped up showing photographs of various dogs , their origin , weight and height in a clear and simple layout .
while ms mayer described this product as " transformative " , she would only hint at the specific techniques that google uses to drive this feature .
" i think we can open the kimono a little bit without talking about the computer science behind it .
" what they are basically doing is looking for structures on the web that seem to imply facts .
like something ' is ' something .
" different tables , different structures , and then corroborating the evidence around whether or not something is a fact by looking at whether that fact occurs across pages .
" this is all in the secret sauce of what we are doing and it takes an incredible amount of compute power to create those squares , " said ms mayer .
' refine , filter and view ' google search options is a tool that is aimed at letting users " slice and dice " results so they can manipulate the information and get what they want faster .
search options is a " tool belt " giving new ways to interact with search they come into play after a normal web search and allow users to drill down into the results by offering an option for different genres like product reviews , forum posts or videos .
other choices include recently added blogs , images , timelines and so on .
ms mayer said this new feature should help people who struggled with the " vexing " problem of exactly what query they should type into the search box .
it is meant to give users the opportunity to " refine , filter and view results in a different way " .
' skymap ' a final feature had ms mayer " reaching for the stars " with an app for mobile phones using the android operating system .
google said it was still working on finding keys but can find the stars " for a long time here at google we joked could we actually find physical things like keys and now with the power and technology of android , coupled with search , you can see we are starting to find some physical things like stars , " said ms mayer .
skymap displays the constellations .
by using the smart phone 's gps capability , it offers the user a dynamic star map that knows where they are standing and which way they are pointing the feature came about as a result of google 's 20 % time , which allows engineers to spend one-fifth of their time working on pet projects .
the app is now available on the android app market .
" clearly google is still pushing the envelope with all these new additions , " said rob hof , silicon valley editor of business week .
" they are certainly continuing to improve daily .
whether it makes a difference and will stave off the competition , i do n't know .
but they are not standing still . "
ms mayer said keeping the user happy was at the heart of everything they did .
" there is a shoe company called stuart weitzman and their slogan is ' a little obsessed with shoes ' .
" google is a little more than obsessed with search , " confessed ms mayer .
bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
e-mail this to a friend printable version print sponsor see also ' human error ' hits google search 31 jan 09 -pipe- technology google unveils customised search 20 nov 08 -pipe- technology google search finds missing child 09 jan 09 -pipe- technology google searches track flu spread 12 nov 08 -pipe- technology google ' goliath ' microsoft says 01 oct 08 -pipe- business search engine ask gets a facelift 06 oct 08 -pipe- technology microsoft offers cashback search 21 may 08 -pipe- technology google overhauls main search page 17 may 07 -pipe- technology related internet links search engine land google yahoo business week google blog the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top technology stories us lifts lid on wikileaks probe bing gains market share in search ' virtual human ' makes xbox debut most popular stories now shared read watched / listened nigeria country profile keyboards ' dirtier than a toilet ' most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened iran stoning woman ' confesses ' meteor spectacle ' set to dazzle ' brazil to record ufo sightings relic of ' original earth ' exposed man grows pea plant inside lung vodafone backs down in android row dying girl photographs criticised met officers face assault charges deadly fires rage on in portugal russians remember kursk submarine disaster , 10 years on most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened unnamed page saudi women photograph their world woman starts fight over chicken nuggets women dice with death on m6 aerial video shows portugal fires unnamed page insider guide : the great migration to open air swimming one-minute world news unnamed page iran stoning woman ' confesses ' most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis planning an exit attacks by afghan soldiers pose nato problems sanction evasion ?
how iran has been registering ships in the isle of man cultural pride taiwan 's efforts to revive indigenous languages most popular now most popular now -pipe- 100,143 people are reading stories on the site right now . " ; skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles widgets & alerts news feeds podcasts search term : bbc.co.uk navigation news sport weather tv radio more … a to f cbbc cbeebies food h to le health history learning lo to z nations & local music science & nature popular links top gear london 2012 full a-z of bbc sites back to start of navigation site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmx the bbc is not responsible for the content of external sites .
read more .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- technology -pipe- google unveils ' smarter search ' accessibility links low graphics skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help access keys help bbc news updated every minute of every day one-minute world news news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 04:15 gmt , wednesday , 13 may 2009 05:15 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version google unveils ' smarter search ' by maggie shiels technology reporter , bbc news , silicon valley google says users are becoming more sophisticated at search web giant google has unveiled new products that it says will push search in a new direction .
google is using so-called semantic web technology to leverage the underlying data on websites to enhance results .
" the race in search is far from over and innovation and continued improvement is absolutely pivotal , " said google 's marissa mayer .
google said it could not afford to rest on its laurels in the quest to build the perfect search engine .
google has over 63 % of the us market compared with rival yahoo , on 20 % .
" i 've said this many times but search is still in its infancy .
our engineers are worried about what is the next big thing in search and how are they going to find it , " said ms mayer , who is the vice-president of search products and user experience .
she said that last year google had released more than 360 products and in the first quarter of this year it had been 120 .
ms mayer added that this was proof that " google gets better all the time " .
google has in the past said that despite its lead in the marketplace , users were " one click away " from switching to other alternatives .
vanessa fox of searchengineland told the bbc that google 's ability to constantly innovate gave them a leading edge .
" google is saying : ' we have to provide for all searchers and do things at scale . '
it means they have to launch all sorts of features while some companies can concentrate on just one thing .
the key thing behind why they are still ahead is because they are able to innovate at such a pace , " said ms fox .
rich snippets during the searchology event at google 's mountain view headquarters , ms mayer and her team showcased four new products that she said would give users a " different way to look at the web " .
google squared is still experimental and far from perfect , says the company rich snippets are search results that return more information in every listing .
for example , users looking for reviews of a new restaurant might get a " rich snippet " of average review scores , number of reviews and the restaurant 's price range .
" this is a step toward making the whole internet smarter , " said google product manager kavi goel .
rich snippets use the metadata from web pages , such as address information , calendar information and semantic web mark-up specifications , called resource description frameworks .
the use of these so-called microformats allows the search engine to better understand the meaning of data and to employ it more intelligently .
google can understand the relationship between different sets of data , and so can pull the correct address listing of a shop without that information having to be specifically tied together .
google squared one of the more experimental products was called google squared , which will go public in the next month or so .
it takes information from the web and displays it in a spreadsheet in " split seconds " , something ms mayer said would normally take someone half a day to do .
during the demonstration , a query for " small dog " was typed into the search box .
seconds later a table popped up showing photographs of various dogs , their origin , weight and height in a clear and simple layout .
while ms mayer described this product as " transformative " , she would only hint at the specific techniques that google uses to drive this feature .
" i think we can open the kimono a little bit without talking about the computer science behind it .
" what they are basically doing is looking for structures on the web that seem to imply facts .
like something ' is ' something .
" different tables , different structures , and then corroborating the evidence around whether or not something is a fact by looking at whether that fact occurs across pages .
" this is all in the secret sauce of what we are doing and it takes an incredible amount of compute power to create those squares , " said ms mayer .
' refine , filter and view ' google search options is a tool that is aimed at letting users " slice and dice " results so they can manipulate the information and get what they want faster .
search options is a " tool belt " giving new ways to interact with search they come into play after a normal web search and allow users to drill down into the results by offering an option for different genres like product reviews , forum posts or videos .
other choices include recently added blogs , images , timelines and so on .
ms mayer said this new feature should help people who struggled with the " vexing " problem of exactly what query they should type into the search box .
it is meant to give users the opportunity to " refine , filter and view results in a different way " .
' skymap ' a final feature had ms mayer " reaching for the stars " with an app for mobile phones using the android operating system .
google said it was still working on finding keys but can find the stars " for a long time here at google we joked could we actually find physical things like keys and now with the power and technology of android , coupled with search , you can see we are starting to find some physical things like stars , " said ms mayer .
skymap displays the constellations .
by using the smart phone 's gps capability , it offers the user a dynamic star map that knows where they are standing and which way they are pointing the feature came about as a result of google 's 20 % time , which allows engineers to spend one-fifth of their time working on pet projects .
the app is now available on the android app market .
" clearly google is still pushing the envelope with all these new additions , " said rob hof , silicon valley editor of business week .
" they are certainly continuing to improve daily .
whether it makes a difference and will stave off the competition , i do n't know .
but they are not standing still . "
ms mayer said keeping the user happy was at the heart of everything they did .
" there is a shoe company called stuart weitzman and their slogan is ' a little obsessed with shoes ' .
" google is a little more than obsessed with search , " confessed ms mayer .
bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
e-mail this to a friend printable version print sponsor see also ' human error ' hits google search 31 jan 09 -pipe- technology google unveils customised search 20 nov 08 -pipe- technology google search finds missing child 09 jan 09 -pipe- technology google searches track flu spread 12 nov 08 -pipe- technology google ' goliath ' microsoft says 01 oct 08 -pipe- business search engine ask gets a facelift 06 oct 08 -pipe- technology microsoft offers cashback search 21 may 08 -pipe- technology google overhauls main search page 17 may 07 -pipe- technology related internet links search engine land google yahoo business week google blog the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top technology stories secret mobile phone codes cracked mobiles offer new view of reality google is sued by chinese author most popular stories now shared read watched / listened condoms ' too big ' for indian men mushroom drug cancer secret probe deadly clashes in north nigeria kenyan women hit men with sex ban secret mobile phone codes cracked most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened china executes briton over drugs sheen ' threatened to kill wife ' secret mobile phone codes cracked russia ' must counter us defences ' condoms ' too big ' for indian men mushroom drug cancer secret probe israeli whistleblower vanunu held yemen details ' jet bomber ' moves van morrison a father again at 64 the year in pictures most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened ' history girls ' craze in japan sheen 911 phone call released one-minute world news erosion threat to australian homes china claims ' world 's fastest train ' china warns uk over execution outcry making a living from a mountain of rubbish the rise of the reality celebrity execution ' barbaric ' say campaigners china 's execution ' unacceptable ' most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis terror fears is yemen becoming al qaeda 's new gulf base ?
year in pictures some of the most striking mages from the year 's news eastern promise the premier league looks to cash in on asia most popular now most popular now -pipe- 75,600 people are reading stories on the site right now .
skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles alerts news feeds podcasts search term : explore the bbc home popular links doctor who comedy extra eastenders a to f bbc iplayer cbbc cbeebies food h to l health & parenting history learning local & nations m to sc music news radio science & nature sp to w sport tv weather a whole lot more from the bbc back to start of navigation site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmix the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- technology -pipe- google unveils ' smarter search ' accessibility help skip to content skip to bbc.co.uk search low graphics help access keys help search term explore the bbc bbc news updated every minute of every day one-minute world news news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 04:15 gmt , wednesday , 13 may 2009 05:15 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version google unveils ' smarter search ' by maggie shiels technology reporter , bbc news , silicon valley google says users are becoming more sophisticated at search web giant google has unveiled new products that it says will push search in a new direction .
google is using so-called semantic web technology to leverage the underlying data on websites to enhance results .
" the race in search is far from over and innovation and continued improvement is absolutely pivotal , " said google 's marissa mayer .
google said it could not afford to rest on its laurels in the quest to build the perfect search engine .
google has over 63 % of the us market compared with rival yahoo , on 20 % .
" i 've said this many times but search is still in its infancy .
our engineers are worried about what is the next big thing in search and how are they going to find it , " said ms mayer , who is the vice-president of search products and user experience .
she said that last year google had released more than 360 products and in the first quarter of this year it had been 120 .
ms mayer added that this was proof that " google gets better all the time " .
google has in the past said that despite its lead in the marketplace , users were " one click away " from switching to other alternatives .
vanessa fox of searchengineland told the bbc that google 's ability to constantly innovate gave them a leading edge .
" google is saying : ' we have to provide for all searchers and do things at scale . '
it means they have to launch all sorts of features while some companies can concentrate on just one thing .
the key thing behind why they are still ahead is because they are able to innovate at such a pace , " said ms fox .
rich snippets during the searchology event at google 's mountain view headquarters , ms mayer and her team showcased four new products that she said would give users a " different way to look at the web " .
google squared is still experimental and far from perfect , says the company rich snippets are search results that return more information in every listing .
for example , users looking for reviews of a new restaurant might get a " rich snippet " of average review scores , number of reviews and the restaurant 's price range .
" this is a step toward making the whole internet smarter , " said google product manager kavi goel .
rich snippets use the metadata from web pages , such as address information , calendar information and semantic web mark-up specifications , called resource description frameworks .
the use of these so-called microformats allows the search engine to better understand the meaning of data and to employ it more intelligently .
google can understand the relationship between different sets of data , and so can pull the correct address listing of a shop without that information having to be specifically tied together .
google squared one of the more experimental products was called google squared , which will go public in the next month or so .
it takes information from the web and displays it in a spreadsheet in " split seconds " , something ms mayer said would normally take someone half a day to do .
during the demonstration , a query for " small dog " was typed into the search box .
seconds later a table popped up showing photographs of various dogs , their origin , weight and height in a clear and simple layout .
while ms mayer described this product as " transformative " , she would only hint at the specific techniques that google uses to drive this feature .
" i think we can open the kimono a little bit without talking about the computer science behind it .
" what they are basically doing is looking for structures on the web that seem to imply facts .
like something ' is ' something .
" different tables , different structures , and then corroborating the evidence around whether or not something is a fact by looking at whether that fact occurs across pages .
" this is all in the secret sauce of what we are doing and it takes an incredible amount of compute power to create those squares , " said ms mayer .
' refine , filter and view ' google search options is a tool that is aimed at letting users " slice and dice " results so they can manipulate the information and get what they want faster .
search options is a " tool belt " giving new ways to interact with search they come into play after a normal web search and allow users to drill down into the results by offering an option for different genres like product reviews , forum posts or videos .
other choices include recently added blogs , images , timelines and so on .
ms mayer said this new feature should help people who struggled with the " vexing " problem of exactly what query they should type into the search box .
it is meant to give users the opportunity to " refine , filter and view results in a different way " .
' skymap ' a final feature had ms mayer " reaching for the stars " with an app for mobile phones using the android operating system .
google said it was still working on finding keys but can find the stars " for a long time here at google we joked could we actually find physical things like keys and now with the power and technology of android , coupled with search , you can see we are starting to find some physical things like stars , " said ms mayer .
skymap displays the constellations .
by using the smart phone 's gps capability , it offers the user a dynamic star map that knows where they are standing and which way they are pointing the feature came about as a result of google 's 20 % time , which allows engineers to spend one-fifth of their time working on pet projects .
the app is now available on the android app market .
" clearly google is still pushing the envelope with all these new additions , " said rob hof , silicon valley editor of business week .
" they are certainly continuing to improve daily .
whether it makes a difference and will stave off the competition , i do n't know .
but they are not standing still . "
ms mayer said keeping the user happy was at the heart of everything they did .
" there is a shoe company called stuart weitzman and their slogan is ' a little obsessed with shoes ' .
" google is a little more than obsessed with search , " confessed ms mayer .
bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
e-mail this to a friend printable version print sponsor see also ' human error ' hits google search 31 jan 09 -pipe- technology google unveils customised search 20 nov 08 -pipe- technology google search finds missing child 09 jan 09 -pipe- technology google searches track flu spread 12 nov 08 -pipe- technology google ' goliath ' microsoft says 01 oct 08 -pipe- business search engine ask gets a facelift 06 oct 08 -pipe- technology microsoft offers cashback search 21 may 08 -pipe- technology google overhauls main search page 17 may 07 -pipe- technology related internet links search engine land google yahoo business week google blog the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top technology stories un slated for stifling net debate net gets set for language changes ' action needed ' on internet bullying most popular stories now shared read watched / listened toxins in plastic ' feminise boys ' shackleton 's whisky to be dug up the child of auschwitz 's kommandant senegal colossus proves sore point belle de jour drops her anonymity most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened actor edward woodward dies at 79 toxins in plastic ' feminise boys ' the child of auschwitz 's kommandant shackleton 's whisky to be dug up obama presses china over rights greenpeace ' to put humans first ' bonham carter 's blyton adventure belle de jour drops her anonymity tuna body shies from fishing ban un slated for stifling net debate most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened ghost trees ' haunt ' london square one-minute world news the pain of a ' forgotten australian ' obama on relations with china ' forgotten ' react to rudd apology forest park given dark sky honour blyton ' not good enough ' for bbc fans attend enke memorial service china visit sparks obama mania driving a car using your phone most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis roll call campaign to register world 's invisible children about my father he ran auschwitz but was no typical ' bad guy ' nazi feminist icon ?
helena bonham carter takes on author enid blyton .
most popular now most popular now -pipe- 132,714 people are reading stories on the site right now .
skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles alerts news feeds podcasts explore the bbc home popular links strictly democracy live merlin bbc links a to f bbc iplayer cbbc cbeebies food bbc links h to l health history learning local & nations bbc links m to sc music news radio science & nature bbc links sp to w sport tv weather a whole lot more to top site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmix the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- technology -pipe- google unveils ' smarter search ' british broadcasting corporation home accessibility links mobile version mobiles skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help access keys help bbc news updated every minute of every day one-minute world news news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 04:15 gmt , wednesday , 13 may 2009 05:15 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version google unveils ' smarter search ' by maggie shiels technology reporter , bbc news , silicon valley google says users are becoming more sophisticated at search web giant google has unveiled new products that it says will push search in a new direction .
google is using so-called semantic web technology to leverage the underlying data on websites to enhance results .
" the race in search is far from over and innovation and continued improvement is absolutely pivotal , " said google 's marissa mayer .
google said it could not afford to rest on its laurels in the quest to build the perfect search engine .
google has over 63 % of the us market compared with rival yahoo , on 20 % .
" i 've said this many times but search is still in its infancy .
our engineers are worried about what is the next big thing in search and how are they going to find it , " said ms mayer , who is the vice-president of search products and user experience .
she said that last year google had released more than 360 products and in the first quarter of this year it had been 120 .
ms mayer added that this was proof that " google gets better all the time " .
google has in the past said that despite its lead in the marketplace , users were " one click away " from switching to other alternatives .
vanessa fox of searchengineland told the bbc that google 's ability to constantly innovate gave them a leading edge .
" google is saying : ' we have to provide for all searchers and do things at scale . '
it means they have to launch all sorts of features while some companies can concentrate on just one thing .
the key thing behind why they are still ahead is because they are able to innovate at such a pace , " said ms fox .
rich snippets during the searchology event at google 's mountain view headquarters , ms mayer and her team showcased four new products that she said would give users a " different way to look at the web " .
google squared is still experimental and far from perfect , says the company rich snippets are search results that return more information in every listing .
for example , users looking for reviews of a new restaurant might get a " rich snippet " of average review scores , number of reviews and the restaurant 's price range .
" this is a step toward making the whole internet smarter , " said google product manager kavi goel .
rich snippets use the metadata from web pages , such as address information , calendar information and semantic web mark-up specifications , called resource description frameworks .
the use of these so-called microformats allows the search engine to better understand the meaning of data and to employ it more intelligently .
google can understand the relationship between different sets of data , and so can pull the correct address listing of a shop without that information having to be specifically tied together .
google squared one of the more experimental products was called google squared , which will go public in the next month or so .
it takes information from the web and displays it in a spreadsheet in " split seconds " , something ms mayer said would normally take someone half a day to do .
during the demonstration , a query for " small dog " was typed into the search box .
seconds later a table popped up showing photographs of various dogs , their origin , weight and height in a clear and simple layout .
while ms mayer described this product as " transformative " , she would only hint at the specific techniques that google uses to drive this feature .
" i think we can open the kimono a little bit without talking about the computer science behind it .
" what they are basically doing is looking for structures on the web that seem to imply facts .
like something ' is ' something .
" different tables , different structures , and then corroborating the evidence around whether or not something is a fact by looking at whether that fact occurs across pages .
" this is all in the secret sauce of what we are doing and it takes an incredible amount of compute power to create those squares , " said ms mayer .
' refine , filter and view ' google search options is a tool that is aimed at letting users " slice and dice " results so they can manipulate the information and get what they want faster .
search options is a " tool belt " giving new ways to interact with search they come into play after a normal web search and allow users to drill down into the results by offering an option for different genres like product reviews , forum posts or videos .
other choices include recently added blogs , images , timelines and so on .
ms mayer said this new feature should help people who struggled with the " vexing " problem of exactly what query they should type into the search box .
it is meant to give users the opportunity to " refine , filter and view results in a different way " .
' skymap ' a final feature had ms mayer " reaching for the stars " with an app for mobile phones using the android operating system .
google said it was still working on finding keys but can find the stars " for a long time here at google we joked could we actually find physical things like keys and now with the power and technology of android , coupled with search , you can see we are starting to find some physical things like stars , " said ms mayer .
skymap displays the constellations .
by using the smart phone 's gps capability , it offers the user a dynamic star map that knows where they are standing and which way they are pointing the feature came about as a result of google 's 20 % time , which allows engineers to spend one-fifth of their time working on pet projects .
the app is now available on the android app market .
" clearly google is still pushing the envelope with all these new additions , " said rob hof , silicon valley editor of business week .
" they are certainly continuing to improve daily .
whether it makes a difference and will stave off the competition , i do n't know .
but they are not standing still . "
ms mayer said keeping the user happy was at the heart of everything they did .
" there is a shoe company called stuart weitzman and their slogan is ' a little obsessed with shoes ' .
" google is a little more than obsessed with search , " confessed ms mayer .
bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
e-mail this to a friend printable version print sponsor see also ' human error ' hits google search 31 jan 09 -pipe- technology google unveils customised search 20 nov 08 -pipe- technology google search finds missing child 09 jan 09 -pipe- technology google searches track flu spread 12 nov 08 -pipe- technology google ' goliath ' microsoft says 01 oct 08 -pipe- business search engine ask gets a facelift 06 oct 08 -pipe- technology microsoft offers cashback search 21 may 08 -pipe- technology google overhauls main search page 17 may 07 -pipe- technology related internet links search engine land google yahoo business week google blog the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top technology stories apple admits iphone signal fault russian freighter docks in space google moves into travel market most popular stories now shared read watched / listened snake bursts after gobbling gator untidy beds may keep us healthy bbc marks iron ship 's homecoming one-minute world news arab culture explored at bluecoat most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened ex-eating champion arrested in us bp oil spill costs pass $ 3bn mark india strike over petrol prices snake bursts after gobbling gator ss great britain : from seabed to national treasure sumo wrestler fired over gambling komorowski set for polish victory obama backs giant solar project apple admits iphone signal fault former bosnian president in court most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened protests at cliff viewing platform launch one-minute world news boy celebrates his return to cuba neil gaiman on comics and success vuvuzela : the sound of the summer couples race for ' wife carrying ' title queen dedicates stone to canada museum bp told safety gear ' broken ' five minutes with : rolf harris caborn : is fa ' fit for purpose ' ?
most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis promoting ' love ' music video builds unity in protest-hit thai capital mixed legacy how mohammed fadlallah was admired and reviled soul searching missionary lives and theological divides in malawi most popular now most popular now -pipe- 64,014 people are reading stories on the site right now . " ; skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles widgets & alerts news feeds podcasts search term : bbc.co.uk navigation news sport weather tv radio more … a to f cbbc cbeebies food h to le health history learning lo to z nations & local music science & nature popular links world cup 2010 solar system full a-z of bbc sites back to start of navigation site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmx the bbc is not responsible for the content of external sites .
read more .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- technology -pipe- google unveils ' smarter search ' british broadcasting corporation home accessibility links mobile version skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help bbc news updated every minute of every day one-minute world news news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 04:15 gmt , wednesday , 13 may 2009 05:15 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version google unveils ' smarter search ' by maggie shiels technology reporter , bbc news , silicon valley google says users are becoming more sophisticated at search web giant google has unveiled new products that it says will push search in a new direction .
google is using so-called semantic web technology to leverage the underlying data on websites to enhance results .
" the race in search is far from over and innovation and continued improvement is absolutely pivotal , " said google 's marissa mayer .
google said it could not afford to rest on its laurels in the quest to build the perfect search engine .
google has over 63 % of the us market compared with rival yahoo , on 20 % .
" i 've said this many times but search is still in its infancy .
our engineers are worried about what is the next big thing in search and how are they going to find it , " said ms mayer , who is the vice-president of search products and user experience .
she said that last year google had released more than 360 products and in the first quarter of this year it had been 120 .
ms mayer added that this was proof that " google gets better all the time " .
google has in the past said that despite its lead in the marketplace , users were " one click away " from switching to other alternatives .
vanessa fox of searchengineland told the bbc that google 's ability to constantly innovate gave them a leading edge .
" google is saying : ' we have to provide for all searchers and do things at scale . '
it means they have to launch all sorts of features while some companies can concentrate on just one thing .
the key thing behind why they are still ahead is because they are able to innovate at such a pace , " said ms fox .
rich snippets during the searchology event at google 's mountain view headquarters , ms mayer and her team showcased four new products that she said would give users a " different way to look at the web " .
google squared is still experimental and far from perfect , says the company rich snippets are search results that return more information in every listing .
for example , users looking for reviews of a new restaurant might get a " rich snippet " of average review scores , number of reviews and the restaurant 's price range .
" this is a step toward making the whole internet smarter , " said google product manager kavi goel .
rich snippets use the metadata from web pages , such as address information , calendar information and semantic web mark-up specifications , called resource description frameworks .
the use of these so-called microformats allows the search engine to better understand the meaning of data and to employ it more intelligently .
google can understand the relationship between different sets of data , and so can pull the correct address listing of a shop without that information having to be specifically tied together .
google squared one of the more experimental products was called google squared , which will go public in the next month or so .
it takes information from the web and displays it in a spreadsheet in " split seconds " , something ms mayer said would normally take someone half a day to do .
during the demonstration , a query for " small dog " was typed into the search box .
seconds later a table popped up showing photographs of various dogs , their origin , weight and height in a clear and simple layout .
while ms mayer described this product as " transformative " , she would only hint at the specific techniques that google uses to drive this feature .
" i think we can open the kimono a little bit without talking about the computer science behind it .
" what they are basically doing is looking for structures on the web that seem to imply facts .
like something ' is ' something .
" different tables , different structures , and then corroborating the evidence around whether or not something is a fact by looking at whether that fact occurs across pages .
" this is all in the secret sauce of what we are doing and it takes an incredible amount of compute power to create those squares , " said ms mayer .
' refine , filter and view ' google search options is a tool that is aimed at letting users " slice and dice " results so they can manipulate the information and get what they want faster .
search options is a " tool belt " giving new ways to interact with search they come into play after a normal web search and allow users to drill down into the results by offering an option for different genres like product reviews , forum posts or videos .
other choices include recently added blogs , images , timelines and so on .
ms mayer said this new feature should help people who struggled with the " vexing " problem of exactly what query they should type into the search box .
it is meant to give users the opportunity to " refine , filter and view results in a different way " .
' skymap ' a final feature had ms mayer " reaching for the stars " with an app for mobile phones using the android operating system .
google said it was still working on finding keys but can find the stars " for a long time here at google we joked could we actually find physical things like keys and now with the power and technology of android , coupled with search , you can see we are starting to find some physical things like stars , " said ms mayer .
skymap displays the constellations .
by using the smart phone 's gps capability , it offers the user a dynamic star map that knows where they are standing and which way they are pointing the feature came about as a result of google 's 20 % time , which allows engineers to spend one-fifth of their time working on pet projects .
the app is now available on the android app market .
" clearly google is still pushing the envelope with all these new additions , " said rob hof , silicon valley editor of business week .
" they are certainly continuing to improve daily .
whether it makes a difference and will stave off the competition , i do n't know .
but they are not standing still . "
ms mayer said keeping the user happy was at the heart of everything they did .
" there is a shoe company called stuart weitzman and their slogan is ' a little obsessed with shoes ' .
" google is a little more than obsessed with search , " confessed ms mayer .
bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
e-mail this to a friend printable version print sponsor see also ' human error ' hits google search 31 jan 09 -pipe- technology google unveils customised search 20 nov 08 -pipe- technology google search finds missing child 09 jan 09 -pipe- technology google searches track flu spread 12 nov 08 -pipe- technology google ' goliath ' microsoft says 01 oct 08 -pipe- business search engine ask gets a facelift 06 oct 08 -pipe- technology microsoft offers cashback search 21 may 08 -pipe- technology google overhauls main search page 17 may 07 -pipe- technology related internet links search engine land google yahoo business week google blog the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top technology stories us lifts lid on wikileaks probe bing gains market share in search ' virtual human ' makes xbox debut most popular stories now shared read watched / listened nairobi bikers improve their own slum halal holidays in the sun most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened rise of the mamils -lrb- middle-aged men in lycra -rrb- diana dors sports car to be sold sun 's ' quiet period ' explained obama plea for gulf coast tourism ' four dead ' in ny state shooting jewel gang ' thief ' sent to japan klm holds out on ash compensation pakistan says 20m hit by floods ' pakistan drone strike kills 12 ' iraqi asylum seekers struggle to survive in sweden most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened cctv of ' air steward 's emergency exit ' how to get a grip on your inbox pakistan says 20m hit by floods women dice with death on m6 full flash video on phones life on the edge : korogocho 's biker boys one-minute world news julia roberts on being a mum ' a disaster of epic proportions ' footage shows boy hit by bus most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis planning an exit attacks by afghan soldiers pose nato problems sanction evasion ?
how iran has been registering ships in the isle of man cultural pride taiwan 's efforts to revive indigenous languages most popular now most popular now -pipe- 38,129 people are reading stories on the site right now . " ; skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles widgets & alerts news feeds podcasts search term : bbc.co.uk navigation news sport weather tv radio more … a to f cbbc cbeebies food h to le health history learning lo to z nations & local music science & nature popular links top gear london 2012 full a-z of bbc sites back to start of navigation site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmx the bbc is not responsible for the content of external sites .
read more .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- technology -pipe- google unveils ' smarter search ' british broadcasting corporation home accessibility links mobile version skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help bbc news updated every minute of every day one-minute world news news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 04:15 gmt , wednesday , 13 may 2009 05:15 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version google unveils ' smarter search ' by maggie shiels technology reporter , bbc news , silicon valley google says users are becoming more sophisticated at search web giant google has unveiled new products that it says will push search in a new direction .
google is using so-called semantic web technology to leverage the underlying data on websites to enhance results .
" the race in search is far from over and innovation and continued improvement is absolutely pivotal , " said google 's marissa mayer .
google said it could not afford to rest on its laurels in the quest to build the perfect search engine .
google has over 63 % of the us market compared with rival yahoo , on 20 % .
" i 've said this many times but search is still in its infancy .
our engineers are worried about what is the next big thing in search and how are they going to find it , " said ms mayer , who is the vice-president of search products and user experience .
she said that last year google had released more than 360 products and in the first quarter of this year it had been 120 .
ms mayer added that this was proof that " google gets better all the time " .
google has in the past said that despite its lead in the marketplace , users were " one click away " from switching to other alternatives .
vanessa fox of searchengineland told the bbc that google 's ability to constantly innovate gave them a leading edge .
" google is saying : ' we have to provide for all searchers and do things at scale . '
it means they have to launch all sorts of features while some companies can concentrate on just one thing .
the key thing behind why they are still ahead is because they are able to innovate at such a pace , " said ms fox .
rich snippets during the searchology event at google 's mountain view headquarters , ms mayer and her team showcased four new products that she said would give users a " different way to look at the web " .
google squared is still experimental and far from perfect , says the company rich snippets are search results that return more information in every listing .
for example , users looking for reviews of a new restaurant might get a " rich snippet " of average review scores , number of reviews and the restaurant 's price range .
" this is a step toward making the whole internet smarter , " said google product manager kavi goel .
rich snippets use the metadata from web pages , such as address information , calendar information and semantic web mark-up specifications , called resource description frameworks .
the use of these so-called microformats allows the search engine to better understand the meaning of data and to employ it more intelligently .
google can understand the relationship between different sets of data , and so can pull the correct address listing of a shop without that information having to be specifically tied together .
google squared one of the more experimental products was called google squared , which will go public in the next month or so .
it takes information from the web and displays it in a spreadsheet in " split seconds " , something ms mayer said would normally take someone half a day to do .
during the demonstration , a query for " small dog " was typed into the search box .
seconds later a table popped up showing photographs of various dogs , their origin , weight and height in a clear and simple layout .
while ms mayer described this product as " transformative " , she would only hint at the specific techniques that google uses to drive this feature .
" i think we can open the kimono a little bit without talking about the computer science behind it .
" what they are basically doing is looking for structures on the web that seem to imply facts .
like something ' is ' something .
" different tables , different structures , and then corroborating the evidence around whether or not something is a fact by looking at whether that fact occurs across pages .
" this is all in the secret sauce of what we are doing and it takes an incredible amount of compute power to create those squares , " said ms mayer .
' refine , filter and view ' google search options is a tool that is aimed at letting users " slice and dice " results so they can manipulate the information and get what they want faster .
search options is a " tool belt " giving new ways to interact with search they come into play after a normal web search and allow users to drill down into the results by offering an option for different genres like product reviews , forum posts or videos .
other choices include recently added blogs , images , timelines and so on .
ms mayer said this new feature should help people who struggled with the " vexing " problem of exactly what query they should type into the search box .
it is meant to give users the opportunity to " refine , filter and view results in a different way " .
' skymap ' a final feature had ms mayer " reaching for the stars " with an app for mobile phones using the android operating system .
google said it was still working on finding keys but can find the stars " for a long time here at google we joked could we actually find physical things like keys and now with the power and technology of android , coupled with search , you can see we are starting to find some physical things like stars , " said ms mayer .
skymap displays the constellations .
by using the smart phone 's gps capability , it offers the user a dynamic star map that knows where they are standing and which way they are pointing the feature came about as a result of google 's 20 % time , which allows engineers to spend one-fifth of their time working on pet projects .
the app is now available on the android app market .
" clearly google is still pushing the envelope with all these new additions , " said rob hof , silicon valley editor of business week .
" they are certainly continuing to improve daily .
whether it makes a difference and will stave off the competition , i do n't know .
but they are not standing still . "
ms mayer said keeping the user happy was at the heart of everything they did .
" there is a shoe company called stuart weitzman and their slogan is ' a little obsessed with shoes ' .
" google is a little more than obsessed with search , " confessed ms mayer .
bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
e-mail this to a friend printable version print sponsor see also ' human error ' hits google search 31 jan 09 -pipe- technology google unveils customised search 20 nov 08 -pipe- technology google search finds missing child 09 jan 09 -pipe- technology google searches track flu spread 12 nov 08 -pipe- technology google ' goliath ' microsoft says 01 oct 08 -pipe- business search engine ask gets a facelift 06 oct 08 -pipe- technology microsoft offers cashback search 21 may 08 -pipe- technology google overhauls main search page 17 may 07 -pipe- technology related internet links search engine land google yahoo business week google blog the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top technology stories us lifts lid on wikileaks probe bing gains market share in search ' virtual human ' makes xbox debut most popular stories now shared read watched / listened living in fear of mexico 's drugs wars bhutan 's happiness formula follow a fiver - from production to destruction most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened ban shocked by pakistan flooding diana dors sports car fetches $ 3m at auction craigslist ' killer ' dies in jail spectators killed at us california 200 off-road race ' jarhead ' bear gets out of a jam living in fear of mexico 's worsening drugs wars man , 19 , raped in county tyrone childline calls prompted by parents ' drink and drugs superheroes ' poor role models for boys ' sun 's ' quiet period ' explained most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened obama takes a dip in gulf waters spectators killed at us car race women dice with death on m6 un chief 's sorrow at pakistan crisis day of mourning for china landslide dead carmaker morgan unveils eva gt ethiopia 's ancient rock churches one-minute world news how to get a grip on your inbox with un chief on pakistan mission most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis planning an exit attacks by afghan soldiers pose nato problems sanction evasion ?
how iran has been registering ships in the isle of man cultural pride taiwan 's efforts to revive indigenous languages most popular now most popular now -pipe- 51,871 people are reading stories on the site right now . " ; skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles widgets & alerts news feeds podcasts search term : bbc.co.uk navigation news sport weather tv radio more … a to f cbbc cbeebies food h to le health history learning lo to z nations & local music science & nature popular links top gear london 2012 full a-z of bbc sites back to start of navigation site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmx the bbc is not responsible for the content of external sites .
read more .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- technology -pipe- google unveils ' smarter search ' british broadcasting corporation home accessibility links mobile version skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help bbc news updated every minute of every day one-minute world news news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 04:15 gmt , wednesday , 13 may 2009 05:15 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version google unveils ' smarter search ' by maggie shiels technology reporter , bbc news , silicon valley google says users are becoming more sophisticated at search web giant google has unveiled new products that it says will push search in a new direction .
google is using so-called semantic web technology to leverage the underlying data on websites to enhance results .
" the race in search is far from over and innovation and continued improvement is absolutely pivotal , " said google 's marissa mayer .
google said it could not afford to rest on its laurels in the quest to build the perfect search engine .
google has over 63 % of the us market compared with rival yahoo , on 20 % .
" i 've said this many times but search is still in its infancy .
our engineers are worried about what is the next big thing in search and how are they going to find it , " said ms mayer , who is the vice-president of search products and user experience .
she said that last year google had released more than 360 products and in the first quarter of this year it had been 120 .
ms mayer added that this was proof that " google gets better all the time " .
google has in the past said that despite its lead in the marketplace , users were " one click away " from switching to other alternatives .
vanessa fox of searchengineland told the bbc that google 's ability to constantly innovate gave them a leading edge .
" google is saying : ' we have to provide for all searchers and do things at scale . '
it means they have to launch all sorts of features while some companies can concentrate on just one thing .
the key thing behind why they are still ahead is because they are able to innovate at such a pace , " said ms fox .
rich snippets during the searchology event at google 's mountain view headquarters , ms mayer and her team showcased four new products that she said would give users a " different way to look at the web " .
google squared is still experimental and far from perfect , says the company rich snippets are search results that return more information in every listing .
for example , users looking for reviews of a new restaurant might get a " rich snippet " of average review scores , number of reviews and the restaurant 's price range .
" this is a step toward making the whole internet smarter , " said google product manager kavi goel .
rich snippets use the metadata from web pages , such as address information , calendar information and semantic web mark-up specifications , called resource description frameworks .
the use of these so-called microformats allows the search engine to better understand the meaning of data and to employ it more intelligently .
google can understand the relationship between different sets of data , and so can pull the correct address listing of a shop without that information having to be specifically tied together .
google squared one of the more experimental products was called google squared , which will go public in the next month or so .
it takes information from the web and displays it in a spreadsheet in " split seconds " , something ms mayer said would normally take someone half a day to do .
during the demonstration , a query for " small dog " was typed into the search box .
seconds later a table popped up showing photographs of various dogs , their origin , weight and height in a clear and simple layout .
while ms mayer described this product as " transformative " , she would only hint at the specific techniques that google uses to drive this feature .
" i think we can open the kimono a little bit without talking about the computer science behind it .
" what they are basically doing is looking for structures on the web that seem to imply facts .
like something ' is ' something .
" different tables , different structures , and then corroborating the evidence around whether or not something is a fact by looking at whether that fact occurs across pages .
" this is all in the secret sauce of what we are doing and it takes an incredible amount of compute power to create those squares , " said ms mayer .
' refine , filter and view ' google search options is a tool that is aimed at letting users " slice and dice " results so they can manipulate the information and get what they want faster .
search options is a " tool belt " giving new ways to interact with search they come into play after a normal web search and allow users to drill down into the results by offering an option for different genres like product reviews , forum posts or videos .
other choices include recently added blogs , images , timelines and so on .
ms mayer said this new feature should help people who struggled with the " vexing " problem of exactly what query they should type into the search box .
it is meant to give users the opportunity to " refine , filter and view results in a different way " .
' skymap ' a final feature had ms mayer " reaching for the stars " with an app for mobile phones using the android operating system .
google said it was still working on finding keys but can find the stars " for a long time here at google we joked could we actually find physical things like keys and now with the power and technology of android , coupled with search , you can see we are starting to find some physical things like stars , " said ms mayer .
skymap displays the constellations .
by using the smart phone 's gps capability , it offers the user a dynamic star map that knows where they are standing and which way they are pointing the feature came about as a result of google 's 20 % time , which allows engineers to spend one-fifth of their time working on pet projects .
the app is now available on the android app market .
" clearly google is still pushing the envelope with all these new additions , " said rob hof , silicon valley editor of business week .
" they are certainly continuing to improve daily .
whether it makes a difference and will stave off the competition , i do n't know .
but they are not standing still . "
ms mayer said keeping the user happy was at the heart of everything they did .
" there is a shoe company called stuart weitzman and their slogan is ' a little obsessed with shoes ' .
" google is a little more than obsessed with search , " confessed ms mayer .
bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
e-mail this to a friend printable version print sponsor see also ' human error ' hits google search 31 jan 09 -pipe- technology google unveils customised search 20 nov 08 -pipe- technology google search finds missing child 09 jan 09 -pipe- technology google searches track flu spread 12 nov 08 -pipe- technology google ' goliath ' microsoft says 01 oct 08 -pipe- business search engine ask gets a facelift 06 oct 08 -pipe- technology microsoft offers cashback search 21 may 08 -pipe- technology google overhauls main search page 17 may 07 -pipe- technology related internet links search engine land google yahoo business week google blog the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top technology stories us lifts lid on wikileaks probe bing gains market share in search ' virtual human ' makes xbox debut most popular stories now shared read watched / listened turkey country profile return to ' last great wilderness ' most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened swede faces $ 1m speeding penalty peru battles killer vampire bats chinese ' infant breasts ' inquiry poland extradites israeli ' agent ' to germany india sets deadline on blackberry woman banned from all sainsbury 's moscow ' hiding heatstroke cases ' after death rate jumps fears over £ 65bn ' nhs mortgage ' zardari tries to ease flood anger asteroid found in space graveyard most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened insider guide : the great migration to open air swimming scanner uncovers river 's mystery objects unnamed page picky eater : ' pasta is like live worms ' europe 's changing holiday habits minute world news unnamed page details of ufo sightings released how a tragedy unfolded in pakistan princess presents afghan medals most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis planning an exit attacks by afghan soldiers pose nato problems sanction evasion ?
how iran has been registering ships in the isle of man cultural pride taiwan 's efforts to revive indigenous languages most popular now most popular now -pipe- 18,600 people are reading stories on the site right now . " ; skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles widgets & alerts news feeds podcasts search term : bbc.co.uk navigation news sport weather tv radio more … a to f cbbc cbeebies food h to le health history learning lo to z nations & local music science & nature popular links top gear london 2012 full a-z of bbc sites back to start of navigation site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmx the bbc is not responsible for the content of external sites .
read more .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- technology -pipe- google unveils ' smarter search ' british broadcasting corporation home accessibility links skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help bbc news updated every minute of every day one-minute world news news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 04:15 gmt , wednesday , 13 may 2009 05:15 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version google unveils ' smarter search ' by maggie shiels technology reporter , bbc news , silicon valley google says users are becoming more sophisticated at search web giant google has unveiled new products that it says will push search in a new direction .
google is using so-called semantic web technology to leverage the underlying data on websites to enhance results .
" the race in search is far from over and innovation and continued improvement is absolutely pivotal , " said google 's marissa mayer .
google said it could not afford to rest on its laurels in the quest to build the perfect search engine .
google has over 63 % of the us market compared with rival yahoo , on 20 % .
" i 've said this many times but search is still in its infancy .
our engineers are worried about what is the next big thing in search and how are they going to find it , " said ms mayer , who is the vice-president of search products and user experience .
she said that last year google had released more than 360 products and in the first quarter of this year it had been 120 .
ms mayer added that this was proof that " google gets better all the time " .
google has in the past said that despite its lead in the marketplace , users were " one click away " from switching to other alternatives .
vanessa fox of searchengineland told the bbc that google 's ability to constantly innovate gave them a leading edge .
" google is saying : ' we have to provide for all searchers and do things at scale . '
it means they have to launch all sorts of features while some companies can concentrate on just one thing .
the key thing behind why they are still ahead is because they are able to innovate at such a pace , " said ms fox .
rich snippets during the searchology event at google 's mountain view headquarters , ms mayer and her team showcased four new products that she said would give users a " different way to look at the web " .
google squared is still experimental and far from perfect , says the company rich snippets are search results that return more information in every listing .
for example , users looking for reviews of a new restaurant might get a " rich snippet " of average review scores , number of reviews and the restaurant 's price range .
" this is a step toward making the whole internet smarter , " said google product manager kavi goel .
rich snippets use the metadata from web pages , such as address information , calendar information and semantic web mark-up specifications , called resource description frameworks .
the use of these so-called microformats allows the search engine to better understand the meaning of data and to employ it more intelligently .
google can understand the relationship between different sets of data , and so can pull the correct address listing of a shop without that information having to be specifically tied together .
google squared one of the more experimental products was called google squared , which will go public in the next month or so .
it takes information from the web and displays it in a spreadsheet in " split seconds " , something ms mayer said would normally take someone half a day to do .
during the demonstration , a query for " small dog " was typed into the search box .
seconds later a table popped up showing photographs of various dogs , their origin , weight and height in a clear and simple layout .
while ms mayer described this product as " transformative " , she would only hint at the specific techniques that google uses to drive this feature .
" i think we can open the kimono a little bit without talking about the computer science behind it .
" what they are basically doing is looking for structures on the web that seem to imply facts .
like something ' is ' something .
" different tables , different structures , and then corroborating the evidence around whether or not something is a fact by looking at whether that fact occurs across pages .
" this is all in the secret sauce of what we are doing and it takes an incredible amount of compute power to create those squares , " said ms mayer .
' refine , filter and view ' google search options is a tool that is aimed at letting users " slice and dice " results so they can manipulate the information and get what they want faster .
search options is a " tool belt " giving new ways to interact with search they come into play after a normal web search and allow users to drill down into the results by offering an option for different genres like product reviews , forum posts or videos .
other choices include recently added blogs , images , timelines and so on .
ms mayer said this new feature should help people who struggled with the " vexing " problem of exactly what query they should type into the search box .
it is meant to give users the opportunity to " refine , filter and view results in a different way " .
' skymap ' a final feature had ms mayer " reaching for the stars " with an app for mobile phones using the android operating system .
google said it was still working on finding keys but can find the stars " for a long time here at google we joked could we actually find physical things like keys and now with the power and technology of android , coupled with search , you can see we are starting to find some physical things like stars , " said ms mayer .
skymap displays the constellations .
by using the smart phone 's gps capability , it offers the user a dynamic star map that knows where they are standing and which way they are pointing the feature came about as a result of google 's 20 % time , which allows engineers to spend one-fifth of their time working on pet projects .
the app is now available on the android app market .
" clearly google is still pushing the envelope with all these new additions , " said rob hof , silicon valley editor of business week .
" they are certainly continuing to improve daily .
whether it makes a difference and will stave off the competition , i do n't know .
but they are not standing still . "
ms mayer said keeping the user happy was at the heart of everything they did .
" there is a shoe company called stuart weitzman and their slogan is ' a little obsessed with shoes ' .
" google is a little more than obsessed with search , " confessed ms mayer .
bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
e-mail this to a friend printable version print sponsor see also ' human error ' hits google search 31 jan 09 -pipe- technology google unveils customised search 20 nov 08 -pipe- technology google search finds missing child 09 jan 09 -pipe- technology google searches track flu spread 12 nov 08 -pipe- technology google ' goliath ' microsoft says 01 oct 08 -pipe- business search engine ask gets a facelift 06 oct 08 -pipe- technology microsoft offers cashback search 21 may 08 -pipe- technology google overhauls main search page 17 may 07 -pipe- technology related internet links search engine land google yahoo business week google blog the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top technology stories us lifts lid on wikileaks probe bing gains market share in search ' virtual human ' makes xbox debut most popular stories now shared read watched / listened italy country profile most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened us sues bp for clean-up damages greek strikers clash with police hundreds held over russia riots two police stabbed in west london icc names kenya violence suspects zuckerberg is time person of 2010 day in pictures : 15 december 2010 jeopardy trial for supercomputer spain-deaths man guilty of abuse australia asylum sinking kills 27 most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened greek strikers clash with police asylum ship founders on rocks are alien lifeforms among us ?
greek protesters clash with police uk prepares for arctic blast nyc 's children of the world caught on camera how to fly a harrier jump jet storm reveals ancient statue in israel one-minute world news hawking : the elegance in equations most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis praying for revenge widowed governor in philippines seeks curse plastic fantastic the loyalty reward programme for facebook fans path to the presidency could sarah palin win the republican nomination ?
most popular now most popular now -pipe- 79,014 people are reading stories on the site right now . " ; skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles widgets & alerts news feeds podcasts mobile search term : bbc.co.uk navigation news sport weather travel tv radio more cbbc cbeebies comedy food health history learning music science nature local northern ireland scotland wales full a-z of bbc sites site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmx the bbc is not responsible for the content of external sites .
read more .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- technology -pipe- google unveils ' smarter search ' british broadcasting corporation home accessibility links mobile version skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help bbc news updated every minute of every day one-minute world news news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 04:15 gmt , wednesday , 13 may 2009 05:15 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version google unveils ' smarter search ' by maggie shiels technology reporter , bbc news , silicon valley google says users are becoming more sophisticated at search web giant google has unveiled new products that it says will push search in a new direction .
google is using so-called semantic web technology to leverage the underlying data on websites to enhance results .
" the race in search is far from over and innovation and continued improvement is absolutely pivotal , " said google 's marissa mayer .
google said it could not afford to rest on its laurels in the quest to build the perfect search engine .
google has over 63 % of the us market compared with rival yahoo , on 20 % .
" i 've said this many times but search is still in its infancy .
our engineers are worried about what is the next big thing in search and how are they going to find it , " said ms mayer , who is the vice-president of search products and user experience .
she said that last year google had released more than 360 products and in the first quarter of this year it had been 120 .
ms mayer added that this was proof that " google gets better all the time " .
google has in the past said that despite its lead in the marketplace , users were " one click away " from switching to other alternatives .
vanessa fox of searchengineland told the bbc that google 's ability to constantly innovate gave them a leading edge .
" google is saying : ' we have to provide for all searchers and do things at scale . '
it means they have to launch all sorts of features while some companies can concentrate on just one thing .
the key thing behind why they are still ahead is because they are able to innovate at such a pace , " said ms fox .
rich snippets during the searchology event at google 's mountain view headquarters , ms mayer and her team showcased four new products that she said would give users a " different way to look at the web " .
google squared is still experimental and far from perfect , says the company rich snippets are search results that return more information in every listing .
for example , users looking for reviews of a new restaurant might get a " rich snippet " of average review scores , number of reviews and the restaurant 's price range .
" this is a step toward making the whole internet smarter , " said google product manager kavi goel .
rich snippets use the metadata from web pages , such as address information , calendar information and semantic web mark-up specifications , called resource description frameworks .
the use of these so-called microformats allows the search engine to better understand the meaning of data and to employ it more intelligently .
google can understand the relationship between different sets of data , and so can pull the correct address listing of a shop without that information having to be specifically tied together .
google squared one of the more experimental products was called google squared , which will go public in the next month or so .
it takes information from the web and displays it in a spreadsheet in " split seconds " , something ms mayer said would normally take someone half a day to do .
during the demonstration , a query for " small dog " was typed into the search box .
seconds later a table popped up showing photographs of various dogs , their origin , weight and height in a clear and simple layout .
while ms mayer described this product as " transformative " , she would only hint at the specific techniques that google uses to drive this feature .
" i think we can open the kimono a little bit without talking about the computer science behind it .
" what they are basically doing is looking for structures on the web that seem to imply facts .
like something ' is ' something .
" different tables , different structures , and then corroborating the evidence around whether or not something is a fact by looking at whether that fact occurs across pages .
" this is all in the secret sauce of what we are doing and it takes an incredible amount of compute power to create those squares , " said ms mayer .
' refine , filter and view ' google search options is a tool that is aimed at letting users " slice and dice " results so they can manipulate the information and get what they want faster .
search options is a " tool belt " giving new ways to interact with search they come into play after a normal web search and allow users to drill down into the results by offering an option for different genres like product reviews , forum posts or videos .
other choices include recently added blogs , images , timelines and so on .
ms mayer said this new feature should help people who struggled with the " vexing " problem of exactly what query they should type into the search box .
it is meant to give users the opportunity to " refine , filter and view results in a different way " .
' skymap ' a final feature had ms mayer " reaching for the stars " with an app for mobile phones using the android operating system .
google said it was still working on finding keys but can find the stars " for a long time here at google we joked could we actually find physical things like keys and now with the power and technology of android , coupled with search , you can see we are starting to find some physical things like stars , " said ms mayer .
skymap displays the constellations .
by using the smart phone 's gps capability , it offers the user a dynamic star map that knows where they are standing and which way they are pointing the feature came about as a result of google 's 20 % time , which allows engineers to spend one-fifth of their time working on pet projects .
the app is now available on the android app market .
" clearly google is still pushing the envelope with all these new additions , " said rob hof , silicon valley editor of business week .
" they are certainly continuing to improve daily .
whether it makes a difference and will stave off the competition , i do n't know .
but they are not standing still . "
ms mayer said keeping the user happy was at the heart of everything they did .
" there is a shoe company called stuart weitzman and their slogan is ' a little obsessed with shoes ' .
" google is a little more than obsessed with search , " confessed ms mayer .
bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
e-mail this to a friend printable version print sponsor see also ' human error ' hits google search 31 jan 09 -pipe- technology google unveils customised search 20 nov 08 -pipe- technology google search finds missing child 09 jan 09 -pipe- technology google searches track flu spread 12 nov 08 -pipe- technology google ' goliath ' microsoft says 01 oct 08 -pipe- business search engine ask gets a facelift 06 oct 08 -pipe- technology microsoft offers cashback search 21 may 08 -pipe- technology google overhauls main search page 17 may 07 -pipe- technology related internet links search engine land google yahoo business week google blog the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top technology stories us lifts lid on wikileaks probe bing gains market share in search ' virtual human ' makes xbox debut most popular stories now shared read watched / listened halal holidays in the sun most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened runaway train on london tube line teenage girl raped in city centre swede faces $ 1m speeding penalty germany in ' record ' 2.2 % growth peru battles killer vampire bats iran nuclear plant start date set are picky eaters ' genes to blame ?
chinese set human domino record fox outlines ' leaner ' mod plans pakistan curbs independence day most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened record dominoes toppled in one go plane rolls into sea in brazil devastating power of china floods timelapse footage of night sky how to get a grip on your inbox ' world 's biggest ' tidal turbine unveiled women dice with death on m6 one-minute world news chinese set human domino record close-up : swimming in berne 's fast-flowing city river most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis planning an exit attacks by afghan soldiers pose nato problems sanction evasion ?
how iran has been registering ships in the isle of man cultural pride taiwan 's efforts to revive indigenous languages most popular now most popular now -pipe- 146,529 people are reading stories on the site right now . " ; skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles widgets & alerts news feeds podcasts search term : bbc.co.uk navigation news sport weather tv radio more … a to f cbbc cbeebies food h to le health history learning lo to z nations & local music science & nature popular links top gear london 2012 full a-z of bbc sites back to start of navigation site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmx the bbc is not responsible for the content of external sites .
read more .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- health -pipe- nhs criticised for baby p errors british broadcasting corporation home accessibility links mobile version skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help bbc news updated every minute of every day one-minute world news news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk business health medical notes science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 05:08 gmt , wednesday , 13 may 2009 06:08 uk nhs criticised for baby p errors please turn on javascript .
media requires javascript to play .
a catalogue of failings by the nhs meant a series of opportunities that could have saved baby p 's life were missed , the health regulator has said .
branwen jeffreys reports .
see also extra funds for social work -lrb- 00.45 -rrb- story tools bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
e-mail this to a friend most popular video / audio one-minute world news is political repression on the rise in rwanda ?
ceremony to mark hiroshima 65 years on spreading pakistan floods affect 4m peop rwanda denies government killings editor 's choice improvements to the bbc news website skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles widgets & alerts news feeds podcasts search term : bbc.co.uk navigation news sport weather tv radio more … a to f cbbc cbeebies food h to le health history learning lo to z nations & local music science & nature popular links top gear london 2012 full a-z of bbc sites back to start of navigation site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmx the bbc is not responsible for the content of external sites .
read more .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- uk politics -pipe- brown wants all claims reviewed bbc news / uk politics graphics version bbc sport home news front page -pipe- africa -pipe- americas -pipe- asia-pacific -pipe- europe -pipe- middle east -pipe- south asia -pipe- uk -pipe- business -pipe- health -pipe- science & environment -pipe- technology -pipe- entertainment -pipe- also in the news -pipe- have your say -pipe- uk contents : england -pipe- northern ireland -pipe- scotland -pipe- wales -pipe- uk politics -pipe- education -pipe- magazine 06:00 gmt , wednesday , 13 may 2009 07:00 uk brown wants all claims reviewed all mps ' receipts for expenses claimed over four years must be independently scrutinised , gordon brown has said .
he said " extreme " action was needed but denied having been bumped into the action by david cameron 's decision earlier to restrict claims by tory mps .
the prime minister told the bbc : " it is not enough for one or two mps to make announcements here and there . "
he said an independent review of every claim made would help mps show they were " worthy of public trust " .
the development came as it emerged communities secretary hazel blears is to pay £ 13,332 over capital gains tax on the sale of her " second home " flat .
and allegations have been made by the daily telegraph about money claimed by senior liberal democrats .
' radical move ' liberal democrat leader nick clegg has told his mps they must hand back any profit they make from the sale of taxpayer-subsidised second homes .
his comments came ahead of the daily telegraph reporting details on lib dem claims including that sir menzies campbell claimed nearly £ 10,000 in expenses for a top designer to redecorate his london flat .
while sir menzies did not deny the allegations he said the claim was " within the spirit of the rules " .
mr brown said an independent audit was needed and said , if necessary , it could mean repayments being made and disciplinary action being taken against some mps . "
i 've heard absolutely the outrage and the anger the public feel about what has been going on " hazel blears blears will pay tax on flat sale expenses focus on lib dems " this is a radical move but it is necessary , " mr brown said .
earlier on tuesday , mr cameron had outlined a series of measures he was demanding of his own mps and said several senior tories would repay " excessive " expenses claimed - and warned he would expel from the party those who refused .
after mr cameron had announced the new rules for his own mps , the government asked the cross-party members allowances committee to consider its own proposals for immediate reform .
asked if he had been forced into a response by mr cameron , mr brown told bbc political correspondent nick robinson : " i have been discussing this for days and we have been looking at this matter for some time .
we had hoped to make some progress yesterday and now all parties are prepared to accept this . "
but two senior mps told the bbc he was " misrepresenting " what had been agreed by the committee .
tax paid they said the committee agreed only to examine the idea of an independent audit , that there was no " firm or final agreement " and would meet again on wednesday after seeking advice on whether it was possible .
the bbc 's political editor said it was clear the days of claiming for furnishings , food and bathplugs were over and in future only claims for rent , mortgage interest , council tax and utility bills would be allowed .
the cross-party committee also agreed mps would no longer be able to nominate which property they claimed was their second home . "
we need money paid back now " david cameron cameron leads payback public have their say on expenses and it said the property designated as a second home for expenses purposes must also be designated a second home with the inland revenue for capital gains tax purposes .
meanwhile ms blears says she will pay £ 13,332 - which would have been due in capital gains tax on a flat she had designated as her second home with commons authorities .
she said she had acted within the rules but had to recognise public anger on the issue .
brandishing a cheque , she said she had made the decision to pay the money after discussions over the weekend with her husband .
" it affected me personally , what people said in salford where i and my family live , " she said .
" i 've heard absolutely the outrage and the anger the public feel about what has been going on . "
earlier mr cameron said " sorry " for the actions of some of his mps and ordered them to pay back a string of " excessive " claims .
he also announced a new " scrutiny panel " to root out abuses - and threatened tory mps who broke the rules with expulsion from the party .
and he said , in future , tory mps would be allowed to claim only for basic costs on second homes such as rent and utility bills and not , as at the moment , for furniture or food .
if mps who have made excessive claims refuse to pay back the money , mr cameron said they would lose the party whip .
" i do n't care if they were within the rules , " he said of claims made in the past .
" they were wrong . "
e-mail this to a friend related internet links daily telegraph the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites search bbc news : news front page -pipe- africa -pipe- americas -pipe- asia-pacific -pipe- europe -pipe- middle east -pipe- south asia -pipe- uk -pipe- business -pipe- health -pipe- science & environment -pipe- technology -pipe- entertainment -pipe- also in the news -pipe- have your say -pipe- uk contents : england -pipe- northern ireland -pipe- scotland -pipe- wales -pipe- uk politics -pipe- education -pipe- magazine newswatch -pipe- notes -pipe- contact us -pipe- about bbc news -pipe- profiles -pipe- history ^ back to top -pipe- bbc sport home -pipe- bbc homepage -pipe- contact us -pipe- help -pipe- ©
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- uk politics -pipe- brown wants all claims reviewed british broadcasting corporation home accessibility links skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help bbc news updated every minute of every day one-minute world news news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 06:00 gmt , wednesday , 13 may 2009 07:00 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version brown wants all claims reviewed please turn on javascript .
media requires javascript to play .
gordon brown says ' extreme ' action is needed to restore public trust in politicians all mps ' receipts for expenses claimed over four years must be independently scrutinised , gordon brown has said .
he said " extreme " action was needed but denied having been bumped into the action by david cameron 's decision earlier to restrict claims by tory mps .
the prime minister told the bbc : " it is not enough for one or two mps to make announcements here and there . "
he said an independent review of every claim made would help mps show they were " worthy of public trust " .
the development came as it emerged communities secretary hazel blears is to pay £ 13,332 over capital gains tax on the sale of her " second home " flat .
and allegations have been made by the daily telegraph about money claimed by senior liberal democrats .
' radical move ' liberal democrat leader nick clegg has told his mps they must hand back any profit they make from the sale of taxpayer-subsidised second homes .
his comments came ahead of the daily telegraph reporting details on lib dem claims including that sir menzies campbell claimed nearly £ 10,000 in expenses for a top designer to redecorate his london flat .
while sir menzies did not deny the allegations he said the claim was " within the spirit of the rules " .
mr brown said an independent audit was needed and said , if necessary , it could mean repayments being made and disciplinary action being taken against some mps .
i 've heard absolutely the outrage and the anger the public feel about what has been going on hazel blears blears will pay tax on flat sale expenses focus on lib dems " this is a radical move but it is necessary , " mr brown said .
earlier on tuesday , mr cameron had outlined a series of measures he was demanding of his own mps and said several senior tories would repay " excessive " expenses claimed - and warned he would expel from the party those who refused .
after mr cameron had announced the new rules for his own mps , the government asked the cross-party members allowances committee to consider its own proposals for immediate reform .
asked if he had been forced into a response by mr cameron , mr brown told bbc political correspondent nick robinson : " i have been discussing this for days and we have been looking at this matter for some time .
we had hoped to make some progress yesterday and now all parties are prepared to accept this . "
but two senior mps told the bbc he was " misrepresenting " what had been agreed by the committee .
tax paid they said the committee agreed only to examine the idea of an independent audit , that there was no " firm or final agreement " and would meet again on wednesday after seeking advice on whether it was possible .
the bbc 's political editor said it was clear the days of claiming for furnishings , food and bathplugs were over and in future only claims for rent , mortgage interest , council tax and utility bills would be allowed .
the cross-party committee also agreed mps would no longer be able to nominate which property they claimed was their second home .
we need money paid back now david cameron cameron leads payback public have their say on expenses and it said the property designated as a second home for expenses purposes must also be designated a second home with the inland revenue for capital gains tax purposes .
meanwhile ms blears says she will pay £ 13,332 - which would have been due in capital gains tax on a flat she had designated as her second home with commons authorities .
she said she had acted within the rules but had to recognise public anger on the issue .
brandishing a cheque , she said she had made the decision to pay the money after discussions over the weekend with her husband .
" it affected me personally , what people said in salford where i and my family live , " she said .
" i 've heard absolutely the outrage and the anger the public feel about what has been going on . "
earlier mr cameron said " sorry " for the actions of some of his mps and ordered them to pay back a string of " excessive " claims .
he also announced a new " scrutiny panel " to root out abuses - and threatened tory mps who broke the rules with expulsion from the party .
and he said , in future , tory mps would be allowed to claim only for basic costs on second homes such as rent and utility bills and not , as at the moment , for furniture or food .
if mps who have made excessive claims refuse to pay back the money , mr cameron said they would lose the party whip .
" i do n't care if they were within the rules , " he said of claims made in the past .
" they were wrong . "
bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
e-mail this to a friend printable version print sponsor mps ' expenses mp-by-mp check who has to pay what expenses back with our sortable chart key stories laws apologises over expenses mps given £ 4,000 expenses advance mps to lose second homes claims side-by-side : old vs new rules mps told to repay £ 1.1m expenses mps to get nearly £ 1,000 pay rise mp 's anger at first-class ' ban ' background and features q & a : mp expenses a guide to the furore over mps ' expenses eye-catching mp expenses claims check your mp 's 2008/9 claims at-a-glance : expenses proposals profile : sir thomas legg guide to mp expenses and pay expenses across europe search mps ' expenses 2004-08 type in your postcode more search options video and audio falconer : parliament ' uncorrupt ' ' politicians must work to restore public confidence ' carry on claiming : more mps ' expenses revelations mps ' spouses ' distressed ' over report have your say is the row over mps ' expenses now over ?
is the mortgage claims ban enough ?
related internet links daily telegraph the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top uk politics stories prison ' not linked ' to crime drop whitehall ' supported guantanamo ' government wins vat commons votes most popular stories now shared read watched / listened us oil spill executives get bonus prostate screening has no benefit ivory coast : as it happened saturday most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened french take over abidjan airport sheen live show bombs in detroit fukushima workers ' bodies found afghan koran protests spreading fighting resumes in libyan cities chinese artist barred from flight us jets grounded after hole scare thousands are missing in mexico taylor love letters up for sale us oil spill executives get bonus most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened one-minute world news the bus that only runs four times a year tsunami dog rescued at sea what will airports of the future look like ?
fighting rages in ivory coast my son charlie sheen 's addiction tutu : ' end the carnage ' in libya ' food poisoning ' kills tourist inside japan 's destroyed nuclear reactor us plane makes emergency landing most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis american dream inspirations which drove generations of immigrants meeting bumbum playful filipino nicknames that do not always flatter quiet revolution saudi women taking small rebellious steps most popular now most popular now -pipe- 56,271 people are reading stories on the site right now . " ; skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles widgets & alerts news feeds podcasts mobile search term : bbc.co.uk navigation news sport weather travel tv radio more cbbc cbeebies comedy food health history learning music science nature local northern ireland scotland wales full a-z of bbc sites site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © 2011 the bbc is not responsible for the content of external sites .
read more .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- uk politics -pipe- brown wants all claims reviewed accessibility links low graphics skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help access keys help bbc news updated every minute of every day one-minute world news news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 06:00 gmt , wednesday , 13 may 2009 07:00 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version brown wants all claims reviewed please turn on javascript .
media requires javascript to play .
gordon brown says ' extreme ' action is needed to restore public trust in politicians all mps ' receipts for expenses claimed over four years must be independently scrutinised , gordon brown has said .
he said " extreme " action was needed but denied having been bumped into the action by david cameron 's decision earlier to restrict claims by tory mps .
the prime minister told the bbc : " it is not enough for one or two mps to make announcements here and there . "
he said an independent review of every claim made would help mps show they were " worthy of public trust " .
the development came as it emerged communities secretary hazel blears is to pay £ 13,332 over capital gains tax on the sale of her " second home " flat .
and allegations have been made by the daily telegraph about money claimed by senior liberal democrats .
' radical move ' liberal democrat leader nick clegg has told his mps they must hand back any profit they make from the sale of taxpayer-subsidised second homes .
his comments came ahead of the daily telegraph reporting details on lib dem claims including that sir menzies campbell claimed nearly £ 10,000 in expenses for a top designer to redecorate his london flat .
while sir menzies did not deny the allegations he said the claim was " within the spirit of the rules " .
mr brown said an independent audit was needed and said , if necessary , it could mean repayments being made and disciplinary action being taken against some mps .
i 've heard absolutely the outrage and the anger the public feel about what has been going on hazel blears blears will pay tax on flat sale expenses focus on lib dems " this is a radical move but it is necessary , " mr brown said .
earlier on tuesday , mr cameron had outlined a series of measures he was demanding of his own mps and said several senior tories would repay " excessive " expenses claimed - and warned he would expel from the party those who refused .
after mr cameron had announced the new rules for his own mps , the government asked the cross-party members allowances committee to consider its own proposals for immediate reform .
asked if he had been forced into a response by mr cameron , mr brown told bbc political correspondent nick robinson : " i have been discussing this for days and we have been looking at this matter for some time .
we had hoped to make some progress yesterday and now all parties are prepared to accept this . "
but two senior mps told the bbc he was " misrepresenting " what had been agreed by the committee .
tax paid they said the committee agreed only to examine the idea of an independent audit , that there was no " firm or final agreement " and would meet again on wednesday after seeking advice on whether it was possible .
the bbc 's political editor said it was clear the days of claiming for furnishings , food and bathplugs were over and in future only claims for rent , mortgage interest , council tax and utility bills would be allowed .
the cross-party committee also agreed mps would no longer be able to nominate which property they claimed was their second home .
we need money paid back now david cameron cameron leads payback public have their say on expenses and it said the property designated as a second home for expenses purposes must also be designated a second home with the inland revenue for capital gains tax purposes .
meanwhile ms blears says she will pay £ 13,332 - which would have been due in capital gains tax on a flat she had designated as her second home with commons authorities .
she said she had acted within the rules but had to recognise public anger on the issue .
brandishing a cheque , she said she had made the decision to pay the money after discussions over the weekend with her husband .
" it affected me personally , what people said in salford where i and my family live , " she said .
" i 've heard absolutely the outrage and the anger the public feel about what has been going on . "
earlier mr cameron said " sorry " for the actions of some of his mps and ordered them to pay back a string of " excessive " claims .
he also announced a new " scrutiny panel " to root out abuses - and threatened tory mps who broke the rules with expulsion from the party .
and he said , in future , tory mps would be allowed to claim only for basic costs on second homes such as rent and utility bills and not , as at the moment , for furniture or food .
if mps who have made excessive claims refuse to pay back the money , mr cameron said they would lose the party whip .
" i do n't care if they were within the rules , " he said of claims made in the past .
" they were wrong . "
bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
e-mail this to a friend printable version print sponsor mps ' expenses key stories 80 mps fight expenses repayments minister repays expenses on flat mp denies £ 20k bell tower claim eye-catching mp expenses claims check your mp 's 2008/9 claims police send expenses cases to cps at-a-glance : expenses proposals search mps ' expenses 2004-08 type in your postcode more search options background and features q & a : mp expenses a guide to the furore over mps ' expenses commuting mps ' home claims cut profile : sir thomas legg will mps accept kelly report ?
likely reform of expenses how mps ' claims work in sweden guide to mp expenses and pay expenses across europe video and audio carry on claiming : more mps ' expenses revelations mps spitting blood over expenses cuts john mann : mps must accept reforms mps ' spouses ' distressed ' over report bell and mitchell clash on expenses have your say is the mortgage claims ban enough ?
is this the end of the expenses uproar ?
related internet links daily telegraph the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top uk politics stories mandelson moves on budget deficit expenses chief looking at options uda set to confirm weapons dumped most popular stories now shared read watched / listened pi calculated to ' record number ' is this the world 's smartest dog ?
your pictures : more snow across the uk runaway pig sparks road chase plate weighing ' can curb obesity ' most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened snow disrupts schools and travel japan whalers ' ram ' activist boat pornographic videos flood youtube obama given intelligence pledge pi calculated to ' record number ' australia downplays india warning google phone to protect ad empire atom bomb survivor dies , aged 93 explosive planted in airport test china rejects iran un sanctions most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened is this the world 's smartest dog ?
swiss avalanche death toll rises viewers ' videos of snow scenes us state reviews shackling laws one-minute world news porn videos floods youtube europe ' will continue to shiver ' runaway pig sparks road chase china 's sparkling ice festival aerial view of the snow most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis failing state is it possible to prevent chaos in yemen ?
in pictures beijing 's bird 's nest stadium turned into winter wonderland major blow cia ' triple agent ' killing embarrases us and jordan most popular now most popular now -pipe- 121,271 people are reading stories on the site right now .
skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles alerts news feeds podcasts search term : explore the bbc home popular links doctor who comedy extra eastenders a to f bbc iplayer cbbc cbeebies food h to l health & parenting history learning local & nations m to sc music news radio science & nature sp to w sport tv weather a whole lot more from the bbc back to start of navigation site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmx the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
