home | about | search | site map | blog ( an rma is not required but helps expedite things for you ) we will send you a ups return shipping label ( by email ) to affix to the package dropthe package at any ups location , see www.ups.com ( be sure to include a copy of your receipt and instructions for refund or exchange ) - if you don 't want to use our prepaid label , or you live outside the us you can mail the products back with the carrier of your choice does it cost anything to return an item for a refund ?
what if i want to use usps or another carrier ? - we try to process refunds on the same business day we receive the item ( s ) , but it might take a few days to appear in your account what if i used a freight forwarding service to ship my items internationally ?
we treat our customers with care and respect , the same way we want to be treated .
we stand behind the products we sell 100 % . if for any reason you are not satisfied with your purchase simply return it for a full refund “ getting an unemployment check in florida is frustrating ordeal for many ” — the miami herald “ alaska pursuing unconventional shale oil development to fill its pipeline ” — the washington post “ texas rethinks law making repeat prostitution a felony ” — austin american-statesman a week ’ s worth of stateline 's original reporting and analysis of key state issues .
delivered on mondays .
canara bank to set up 38 branches in jammu and kashmir health fair in kathua in kashmir inaugurated by deputy cm one bsf jawan dies , another untraceable after falling in gorge homehomehot topics ( 1 new ) current affairsworld newsbusiness & # 38 ; financeindustry sectorstechnologysciencesportlifestyleentertainment & # 38 ; artsworld newsworld newseuropenorth americalatin americacaribbeanasiaafricamiddle eastsouth pacificasiaafghanistanarmeniaazerbaijanbangladeshbhutanburmacambodiacentral asiachagos islandschinaeast timorhong kongindiaindonesiajapankashmirkazakhstankoreakurdistanmalaysianepalmongolianorth koreapakistanphilippinessingaporesri lankathailandtaiwantibetturkeyvietnam her majesty the queen celebrates the 60th anniversary of her coronationthis year - and she is working as hard as ever ! issues and politics of the race to county hall for 2013 and lawyers to overthrow centuries of tradition in order to curtail at km groupwe ’ re proud to pay tribute to the brave men looking for something to do at the weekend ?
had a big clear-out at home ?
car boot sale season is back !
click here to find your local event ...
copyright © and trademark ™ the silsbee bee 2012 all rights reserved copyright statement | privacy statement | terms of service staff email • webmaster • site map are you interested in customizing a range of email alerts using advanced tools ?
if so , we suggest you use the inboxrobot .
newspoliticsvote 2013vote 2012societyhealthpensionshuman rightsenvironmentfeaturesmama makes it betterthe spitak quakeeconomycrisisit and telecomgenocidekarabakhcommentaryopinioneditorialoutside eyearts and culturesportschessboxingweightliftingwrestlingbasketballtennisother sportsmultimediavideofeature photogallery an anc splinter group , however , moved quickly to reestablish the anm , saying that consigning a party with such “ history and pride ” to political oblivion was a disgraceful step .
using a mobile device ?
go to m.huffingtonpost.com for huffpost mobile .
if you have something to say ...
say it on the huffington post i 'm not one to use the term " tipping point " lightly , because one can only say you 've hit it so many times before losing one 's credibility , but i do think we 've hit the tipping point on marijuana legalization -- for three reasons .
2013 will go down in history as the beginning of the end of our disastrous war on drugs .
here are some of the top stories that made 2013 a watershed year in the fight to end america 's longest failed war .
how is it that our land , supposedly the beacon of freedom and democracy for the rest of the world , puts so many of its own people into prison ?
and why has the number climbed so drastically since 1980 ?
making alcohol illegal led to huge increases in organized crime , corruption , and violence .
for many of the reasons that led to its repeal , the same arguments can be made for why we need to end the war on drugs .
i support and applaud president obama 's treatment of turkeys .
but i have to ask the president : what about the treatment of the more than 100,000 people who are incarcerated in the federal system because of the war on drugs ?
if there was ever a small opening for the gop to win the hearts and minds of millennials , pot might be the golden ticket .
let 's be real .
when it comes to drugs , " public safety " is the last thing on the minds of our elected officials .
ending the new jim crow : mapping new drug policies in nyc walgreen co .
offers month of prescriptions to backlogged obamacare enrollees did you know there are 17 species of penguins in antarctica ?
" this is the best new year 's eve of my life , " he said as the crowd erupted with cheers and cries of " happy new year ! "
" it was worth the 13 hour wait in the cold . "
merrir was fasting and not drinking anything to deal with the lack of restrooms .
as for the cold , she recommended vigorous dancing for as long as you can stand on your feet .
" at a point , " she said , " your brain is not working anymore . "
homelatest newscosta blanca newscosta levante newscosta almeria newscosta del sol newsspanish national newsbritish scenecork talkinside spainmed tv guideliving in spainyellow pagespropertyphoto gallery where in the story does it say he ' butchered ' her , & # 8230 ; please note : prices are for 4 weeks .
you can design your own advert or we can design it for you .
send your orders by e-mail to operation crackdown on poachers has taught us a lot na henry muhanika as the year 2013 comes to the end and becomes part of history , the impact of the now infamous initiative , originally genuinely conceived to deal a big blow to poachers and their accomplices in crime , is being more felt than was the case when it was launched , a few months back .
while there are several things which went wrong during implementation of the operation the aspect of how it more or less tended to focus on pastoralists as key players in the poaching malpractice remains a big puzzle .
the torturing and killing of civilians on the pretext of curbing poaching are not isolated incidents , for they are reported to have occurred even during the operation to round up and repatriate illegal immigrants .
it is noted as well that corruption had a role in the messing up of the operation , as some of the implementers allegedly resorted to intimidation for the purpose of soliciting bribes. ippmedia.com © 1998-2013 .
all rights reserved a \ " polar express \ " experience in manitowoc | htrnews.com | manitowoc man-news | htr media you will be redirected to the page you want to view inseconds .
contact ussubscribecustomer servicesadvertise with htr mediacareers with gannettbusiness opportunity-delivery routesour commitmentmanage my subscriptionactivate your subscriptionabout us armond kueter will be remembered as a passionate educator and tireless volunteer by the thousands ... - 7 : 40 pm yard md tip of the week : bird-themed decor for indoor or outdoor use are you currently a subscriber ? set up your digital access now .
log inare you currently a subscriber ?
set up your digital access now .
create an account or if you have a digital profile log in .
become a subscriber today to continue enjoying all of the products htr media has to offer or you can download any of the following supported modern browsers : newsobituariesschoolsnationalrecordsdataminespecial sectionsarchiveopinionsubmit a lettersportswisconsin badgersvarsitywisconsin outdoor funclubhouse livepackersgameday live ! submit a sports photovideosvideo librarybusinessliving here 2012 / 2013photosvideophoto galleriesorder photo reprintsshare photoslife & stylemilestonesmy cozi calendarday trip videos2013 menu guidemovieshealthentertainment2013 menu guidemy cozi calendarcalendar events helpcontact ussubscribecustomer servicesadvertise with htr mediacareers with gannettbusiness opportunity-delivery routesour commitmentmanage my subscriptionactivate your subscriptionabout us easily the most touching story came when the timbers granted a wish by atticus lane-dupre , an 8-year-old cancer survivor . atticus and his friends played a friendly against the timbers , in front of the timbers army . the story is sweet , and the video will & # 8230 ; activities of daily living , but who are ambulatory and capable manchester city 's yaya toure set to be named african footballer of the ...
lino , how don & # 8217 ; t you see that ? !
bony was clearly offside for swansea & # 8217 ; s ...
yaya toure on course for african footballer of the year hat-trick ice us review : light trading ahead of the new year toure , drogba and mikel for african player of the year africa : toure , drogba and mikel for african player of the year asamoah gyan misses final shortlist for caf & # 8217 ; s top award , assifuah in the ...
liverpool and spurs to re-ignite interest in lacina traore final homehomehot topics ( 1 new ) current affairsworld newsbusiness & # 38 ; financeindustry sectorstechnologysciencesportlifestyleentertainment & # 38 ; artsworld newsworld newseuropenorth americalatin americacaribbeanasiaafricamiddle eastsouth pacificafricaafricaalgeriaangolabotswanaburundicamerooncentral african republicdr congoegyptethiopiaghanaguinea-bissauivory coastkenyaliberialibyamadagascarmalimauritiusmoroccomozambiquenamibianigernigeriarwandasomaliasouth africasouth sudansudantunisiaugandazambiazimbabweivory coastsportfootball asamoah gyan misses final shortlist for caf & # 8217 ; s top award , assifuah in the ... ghanasoccernet.com 14 : 19 31-dec-13 this site uses cookies .
by continuing to browse the site you are agreeing to our use of cookies .
review our cookies information for more detailsthis site uses cookies .
by continuing to browse the site you are agreeing to our use of cookies .
review our cookies information for more detailsthis site uses cookies .
by continuing to browse the site you are agreeing to our use of cookies .
review our cookies information for more detailsthis site uses cookies .
by continuing to browse the site you are agreeing to our use of cookies .
review our cookies information for more detailsthis site uses cookies .
by continuing to browse the site you are agreeing to our use of cookies .
review our cookies information for more detailsthis site uses cookies .
by continuing to browse the site you are agreeing to our use of cookies .
review our cookies information for more detailsthis site uses cookies .
by continuing to browse the site you are agreeing to our use of cookies .
review our cookies information for more detailsthis site uses cookies .
by continuing to browse the site you are agreeing to our use of cookies .
review our cookies information for more details retour sur la vie du premier président noir d 'afrique du sud , nelson mandela ils sont dans l ’ ombre qui s ’ éclaire .
et dans l ’ ombre qui s ’ épaissit .
nelson rohlihlala mandela n 'est plus .
a la suite d ’ une longue maladie , il a tiré sa révérence , le 5 décembre 2013 , entouré de l ’ affection des membres de sa famille .
au crépuscule de sa vie , mandela s ’ était retiré de la vie politique et vivait entouré des siens .
sa dernière apparition publique date de la coupe du monde de football 2010 qui a eu lieu en afrique du sud .
visiblement ému , jacob zuma , le président de l 'afrique du sud , son ancien compagnon de lutte qui avait également été incarcéré à robben island , a annoncé même si l 'on s ’ attendait à un décès plus ou moins imminent , cette nouvelle a provoqué une onde de choc dans le monde entier .
madiba , fait partie de notre mémoire collective maintenant , car nous avons suivi avec beaucoup d 'émotion les grandes étapes de sa biographie depuis son incarcération dans les geôles de robben island , en 1962 , en passant par sa libération , le 11 février 1990 , au prix nobel de la paix en 1993 jusqu ’ à son élection , le 26 avril 1994 , en tant que premier président de l ’ afrique du sud élu librement et démocratiquement par tous les sudafricains et les sudafricaines .
le monde entier avait salué cette élection qui a donné naissance à la nation arc-en-ciel .
durant son mandat , madiba a mis en place une commission " vérité et réconciliation & ldquo ; qui a permis d ’ extirper les racines de l ’ apartheid , ce racisme étatique établi depuis des une légende a rejoint au royaume des ombres , tous ceux qui ont lutté pour un idéal et qui étaient prêts à donner leur vie pour cet idéal .
madiba fait partie des héros qui aspiraient à un monde meilleur où seules règneraient la justice , l ’ égalité des chances et la liberté pour tous .
il est une référence et nous sert madiba , comme ses concitoyens l ’ appelaient , est un nom clanique et une formule de respect , e mpreinte d ’ affection .
tata signifie en khosa , sa langue maternelle & sbquo ; père & ldquo ; .
mandela a écrit en lettres d ’ or les plus belles pages de l ’ histoire contemporaine .
de son vivant , il est entré de plain-pied dans l ’ histoire .
sa vision d ’ un monde sans racisme a été son combat de toute une vie .
il en a payé le prix fort .
ses bourreaux l ’ ont incarcéré durant 27 ans au pénitencier de robben island .
cependant , son charisme et son autorité morale ont obligé le pouvoir d ’ alors à entamer des pourpalers avec lui jusqu ’ à sa libération .
le nom de nelson mandela restera gravé à jamais dans nos mémoires .
il a livré au monde un testament de paix , de pardon et d ’ amour du prochain qui touche le cœur nelson mandela a résumé son engagement de la façon suivante : & sbquo ; j ’ ai dédié ma vie à la lutte pour le peuple africain .
j ’ ai combattu la domination blanche et j ’ ai combattu la domination noire .
j ’ ai chéri l ’ idéal d ’ une société démocratique et libre dans laquelle tous vivraient ensemble dans l ’ harmonie , avec d ’ égales opportunités .
c ’ est un idéal que j ’ espère atteindre et pour lequel j ’ espère vivre .
mais , si besoin est , c ’ est un idéal pour lequel je mandela a eu le bonheur de voir son rêve se réaliser : celui de vivre dans sa une icône s ’ en est allée de l ’ autre bord rejoindre ses ancêtres .
paix à son âme !
nous pleurons aujourd ’ hui l ’ humaniste qui a redonné à l ’ afrique , et en nous pleurons le héros de la liberté qui a su réconcilier blancs et noirs en nous pleurons l ’ homme qui est le symbole de la lutte contre la discrimination raciale , de la recherche de la justice et de la paix et qui a été une source nous nous inclinons très respectueusement devant ce père de la nation sudafricaine , cet illustre fils de l ’ afrique qui a changé le cours de l ’ histoire dans son pays et ému tous les peuples du monde .
tout le monde le pleure a sa famille éplorée , à ses anciens compagnons de lutte , au peuple sudafricain et à lanc ( african national congress ) , nous présentons nos sincères condoléances .
message de condoleances adresse aux familles vicimes des recents massacres de gatumba et au peuple burundais .
declaration du cndd au sujet de la question des negociations rapport du projet mapping concernant les violations les plus graves des droits de l ’ homme et du droit international humanitaire commises entre mars 1993 et juin 2003 sur le territoire de la république démocratique du congo memorandum sur les irregularites et fraudes massives des elections communales du 24 mai 2010 declaration du parti cndd au sujet de la greve des enseignants du primaire et du secondaire anglais | données | images | archives | contactez-nous | rendez-vous he said this envisages the enhancement of tazara ’ s hauling capacity in an effort to boost the volume of goods and revenue in the second year of the strategic plan , in 2014 . & ldquo ; so far so good , in terms of capacity enhancement in the equipment arena .
with the invitation of the private sector in our operations , we now expect other areas , such as the railway infrastructure , to be serviced and maintained to appreciable levels in order to increase our efficiency to the satisfaction of our customers . & rdquo ; state commissioners ask epa for stricter vehicle and fuel standards saturday morning & the stalls are going up for the bangsaen bikeweek event from 2.30 pm many bikes rolled in so keep clicking on our pages to see it as it unfolded hey mc riders in the meantime if youre into buying one of our limited print edition sturgis by the way these pages are dedicated to all the foreign and thai mc clubs in thailand where one can " ride hard & live life to its fullest " if you are an mc in thailand send your banner & link to us .
more [ bang saen bike week page 3 ] more [ bang saen harleys for sale ] dec 6-7th 2008 chiangmai north comets bike week [ see pics ] december 13th formulate bike party sat chiangmai [ see pics ] vfrs & cbrs for parts ] [ new honda 125 waves , sonics ] [ new cbr honda 150cc ] [ honda bikes ] [ new cbr 2004 150cc ] [ thai & car t shirts ] [ kids mini racing bikes ] [ your own bike ] [ honda nsr 150cc ] [ vfr bikes ex china ] [ export crates ] [ new yamaha vehicles to thailand ] [ freight forwarding ] [ container cost ] [ sea freight ] [ air freight ] [ airlines in thailand ] [ back to exporters list ] [ container cost ] [ shipping to usa ] [ shipping personal items ] [ shipping cars ] [ shipping agent ] [ buddha images & food ] [ tariffs ] [ letter of credit ] [ fine arts license ] post co ltd by way of contract .
all infringements will be an infringement i am a current subscriber and need to register on investors.com.
i am not a current subscriber and want to register for free membership on investors.com.
watch : jetblue makes us cry with its holiday surprise for unsuspecting people q : has the attitude of the russian people toward protest in the cathedral of christ the savior changed ?
something new i noted that probably others did not in an analysis of nadia tolokonnikova 's twitter : the gap between the latest tweets and present ones are almost two years and are structured by a quite a different life .
the latest twitter is as if it is another person -- a professional revolutionary -- something as a parent i did not want to notice .
" mordovia will get what it deserves , so fasten your seatbelt . "
" the huffington post " is a registered trademark of thehuffingtonpost.com , inc .
all rights reserved .
kline said more funding should be aimed at " creating a healthy forest that can handle fire , keep it on the ground , keep it containable and keep it as a healthy part of the ecosystem . "
columns | church | opinion | special sections | advertising | archivessearch for sickle cell cure | kob.com kob welcomes a lively and courteous discussion as long as you follow the rules of conduct set forth in our privacy policy and the license you have granted pursuant to our it ’ s 2014 somewhere : gifs from new year ’ s around the world n. korea ’ s kim says purge of uncle the ’ correct decision ’ a surprising map of the best and worst countries to be born into today who smokes most : a surprising map of smoking rates by country p b mehta on aap and it 's impact on corrosive cynicism in our democracy m.indianexpress.com / news / overcomin … this photo of kim jong un riding a ski lift is north korea 's way of flipping off europe wapo.st / 19fce1v view the ' kings of the north ' in the polar bear capital of the world by day and enjoy the beautiful northern lights by night .
explore fascinating spitsbergenaboard a luxury expedition ship on a voyage withspectacular wildlife , hiking , zodiac excursions and optional kayaking and snowshoeing.receive up to $ 1,500 in air credits per person .
encounter the king of the arctic — the polar bear — in its natural habitat , as you follow in the wake of viking explorers from the comfort of a luxury expedition vessel.receive free airfare ( value up to $ 1,700 per person ) .
record signing radamel falcao misses a penalty on his return to the side as monaco spurn the chance to go top of ligue 1 . ( 12 / 20 / 2013 7 : 42 : 55 am ) kennedy ’ s signature domestic policy challenge to america was as much a tactic of the cold war as it was an interest in space .
utah education association fires former lawmaker kory holdaway as lobbyist 2003 © all rights reserved - autogestione contenuti di asianews c.f. e p.iva : 00889190153 - glacom ® new mexican president unveils his new law and order strategyby jim kouri man at billings hotel , rimview inn victim of violent robbery and stabbingby montana news billings man stabbed in area of state ave and orchard laneby montana news be a nice profit .
as that didn 't work so its fill it or make it go away .
its a complete i have to agree that now is the time to to sit and rot is not the right way .
when our heads and step in to fill st. marie up well non believer , one man can make difference , but in this case , alot of people me .
not to be made sport of , so lets now of the way : all that was being said was that here fill up as well .
how do you fill up said , if you agree , you can help by a letter same ?
ethanol , wind plants and oil or natural gas are industries we can bring to equal and we all have the right to have our say .
so the next time someone says no to a its time we the people of this great part of the state open our hearts , our minds and and tell him we want and need to help .
lets yeah there would be negatives- but remember we are a county that has gone from bust to boom and back to bust many times- with the dam and the base .. this could be a big shot in the arm for our economy .
there is alot of work to do at the former base .
and it is true that alot of the work can to achieve this idea and make it reality .
and to do the right thing and thats need and at the same time bring a big boost to our area in forms of money of all kinds .
give the push needed to get fema to ok the i 'm coniplating the thought that maybe some people are against this is a color issue . just a thought . and if you are one of these people ..
put yourselves in their shoes . what if we had a disater there and lost everything , and needed to relocate . i think that we would take what we could get and not be bias about the situation .
lack of is 1 step above non-existent . i ? m not ? pawning ? it off n the parents i ? m stating a fact ! !
they are the ones who should be initiating this and instilling those values in their kids .
example # 2 i worked with a girl who was fed from a silver platter . that is if she decided she wanted to work , most days she was ? sick ? or had people cover her shifts . work meant nothing to her . she never took her job seriously .
she always had new cars , new clothes , new everything and all she had to do was ask mom and dad . i recall one day she was asked to wash some windows and she said ? i don ? t know how ? that is bad .
so is it up to her to teach herself theses things about life ?
no no no it ? s the parents .
they have no need or desire to because they know they don ? t have too because mommy and daddy buy them everything . so yes it does go back to ? your generation ? what we become to day we learn from our parents .
2nd part . yes everyone is responsible for their own actions , but think of the kids that make mistakes and what not , yep you guessed it mommy and daddy are there to clean up the mess .
so don ? t start with me on the younger generations lack of work ethic , you all ? older generation ? brought it on yourself . so if you want someone to argue with look in the mirror. by the way this is so far from the subject at hand. so for further replies please see new post youth work ethics if jobs are not there , the federal government has a team together to try to bring industry to the that areas taking evacuees in .
they are working hard to do whats right with the evacuees and to the areas of which the evacuees will be placed. to do .
adaption to good and bad even if its people a chance to see what is at st. marie thank you for all that did so much to try they do so much for the western part of the you are of the forth crop of humans to occupy the earth .
there shall be one more .
as far as the attack on the " non-believer " comment is concerned , a belief is accepting something as real though you have no experience of it .
and as such , a belief is a self deception , a magical thought and a form of insanity .
or will it be pushed out of our minds as building or housing is in the greatest shape and no one said that .
ok , so we are back to square one .
what do we do with the former base .
let it sit and rot , its burns , baucus and all the other canidates that have to fight to either stay then lets push them to do it .
we can and who is it that owns the place anyway ?
is there any one company that owns all the empty buildings or are there a bunch of different entities that own them ? until it gets to the point where it will all there is no hole in the ground big enough for all that ! once was and is full of life like it once my hats off to you people who have tried to get something going out there , to those of you who have bought a place , fixed it up and you want cable tv or cable internet ?
not at st. marie .
we are looking to buy there . let us know ( on this forum ) if you are interested .
the former base was built in the early 1960 's and closed in 1968 as an air force base .
i would be happy yo meet with you in your offices in chicago or host you in montana. add to this forum , then you can take the time to write to our senators , representative and the governor to get i was up there back in the early 90s and they had a sales office and a rep took my then husband and i on a ' tour ' ---of which i was able to furnish many facts to him about since i lived there in the 70s .
the condo association : we just rent our unit , but if we were to buy one , i wouldn 't buy one in the condo association .
i don 't think it 's worth the money , personally .
just look into it before you decide to buy , and get all the facts .
the association likes to make a lot of rules , but aren 't very keen on keeping promises .
my husband and i would like to visit the area and at one time there was overnight accomondations available on the former air force base .
because of the condition of the roads here , i have to pay $ 140 a year to have the front end of my vehicle aligned .
ups and fedex deliver , but charge extra because it is an " isolated or remote " area .
usps does not deliver mail to your home , you have to go pick up your mail and packages at the local " mail station " ... and who wants to fight 4-feet of snow in 30-below temps to pick up a load of junk mail and a couple of bills ?
oh , and , yes , i am an avid shooter , hunter and reloader ... but i have yet to fire any of my firearms here in saint marie .
some of what you say is true but you live in freakin rural montana for god 's sake , not metro denver or la .
move into town and quite bashing saint marie .
i have never had fed-ex and ups charge me extra to deliver here and i order off of the net all the time .
it does take a bit longer to get things but so what .
and as for having to pay the past due bill of someone else .
the water district makes it plainly clear in all of the information given out at the conception of a water account that the account stays with the property .
so it is the responsiblity of the owners to pass that information on to renters or to potential buyers .
why not grip about the owners who don 't tell their buyers that and then try to shirk out on the bill .
4 .
water issues : everyone was given a chance to have a say against the water project and the raise in the water prices out here .
no one showed for any of the meetings .
and no one cared about it until their bill went up ... it is made known at the start of your water account with the district that the bill follows the property .
not the person .
so it becomes the responsiblity of the owners to make their renters pay the bill .
or sue them .
do checks on the renter .
this is not new out here so dont make it sound so .
5 .
the condo is hard to deal with sometimes but they have quite a few members that require their help and so things tend to go slow .
i too had a two year lag on getting my gutters fixed .
do you really consider 15 to 20 mph driving crazy ? 4 .
water issues : everyone was given a chance to have a say against the water project and the raise in the water prices out here .
no one showed for any of the meetings .
and no one cared about it until their bill went up ... it is made known at the start of your water account with the district that the bill follows the property .
not the person .
so it becomes the responsibility of the owners to make their renters pay the bill .
or sue them .
do checks on the renter .
this is not new out here so dont make it sound so .
i never made it sound " new " , and i have never had to pay the utility bill of a previous owner or renter in my 66 years !
as for the public meetings ...
i never received word of them .
but i 'm not one who hangs-out at the " community center " .
if the buildings are part of the condo , the condo owns the exterior , the basement , and the garage as well as all the land .
so when someone is injured , and it goes to court , we 'll see who is responsible .
however ; when my hot water heater blew-up in oregon , the owner had a repairman and a new heater installed within an hour of my phone call .
when i was snow-bound in upstate new york , the neighbors pitched-in and i was " on the road " again in around 15 minutes .
when i am snowed in , i get out my shovels. what a hateful man you are .
you didn 't have to hang out at the town hall to hear about the water meetings as they were posted in the courier and mailed to you .
i would love to help you move if it would keep you from pouring out posion about our community but i have a family to support .
you talk about the condo owning the burnt out houses but it 's just not the case and the county is the party who stated that the building becomes the responsiblity of the registered owner , as in the owner listed on the tax bill not some random condo association .
not me .
if i didn 't want to be injured i wouldn 't go around those houses and you should state that the houses are not in an area of the town that anyone lives in so there isn 't a reason for anyone else to be around those houses either .
the water bill is average , i pay less than you and i have a family of 4 and we drink the water .
you probably pay more for the bottled water than you would to use what comes out of your tap .
i love my town and this is a pointless argument because you are what you are .
it 's sad but true .
i wish you luck in moving and i will pray that way for you .
each lesson is meant to show how color can be used on a map to illustrate “ my sense is that there is recognition among all student groups and faculty groups that , if we just go on the way we are now , given the fiscal environment , it ’ s not sustainable , ” duguid said .
“ we can no longer afford to have a system that is organically developing based on whatever preferences the institutions may have .
we can ’ t have duplication in the system , ” he said .
“ we believe such a system [ imposes ] a punitive hierarchy of “ winners ” and “ losers , ” ocufa stated .
comment on putting the lemon in lululemon dec 27 , 4 : 30 pm comment on having a university degree is overrated dec 27 , 1 : 38 pm comment on parking on campus is exorbitant dec 22 , 10 : 33 pm regarding the december 21 ice storm : " mayor rob ford , who was stripped of his emergency powers by council , is expected to hold a press conference ... – comment on hate for rob ford is unwarranted dec 22 , 2 : 54 pm the vitol trading giant ’ s acquisition of a stake of slightly over 9 % at a cost of cad 10 million in cic energy at the end of march looks likely to give the company the push it needs . ( ... )
sasol had to ditch its plan to explore for shale gas in south africa but has launched itself into exploring for coal gas in botswana . ( ... )
the former general manager of de beers in congo-k is joining the board of tsodilo ( ... )
comments | print | report a typo | contact the editor related articlesnickel capital wolves suffer first defeattwo aaa midget teams too many ? by any third party are the responsibility of the author of that message and not in any way or verified the accuracy , completeness or usefulness of any message .
we encourage visitors to northernlife.ca to report any objectionable content by mkm cites ciena , finisar and f5 networks .
cisco may be on the outs .
sterne agee raised estimates on the bank for 2014 and 2015 .
the online auctioneer was hurt by the lack of cheaper expedited shipping .
the franco-dutch airline has cut costs and restructured in an effort to end years of losses .
emerging markets look to be on the mend , and the stocks are cheap .
but beware of political risks in the fragile five .
a new feature on market prophit 's site ranks bloggers who tweet on their ability to be correct .
etf investors can look forward to an onslaught of more niche products , the downfall of " smart beta , " and bigger discrepancies in pricing .
how are states using employees ’ and job candidates ’ social media accounts in employment decisions ?
what happens if a state agency or public official ’ s identity or username is stolen ?
ever wanted to tour the new hampshire state house ?
rather stroll through the colorado governor 's mansion ?
perhaps you wouldn 't be happy until you hear the cry of a loon as it glides over minnesota 's lakes region ?
or maybe you 're considering making a movie in mississippi and would like to investigate the area and its resources ?
all this is possible with just a few mouse clicks thanks to the magic of the internet .
the wendel investment firm ’ s acquisition of a € 100 million stake in morocco ’ s saham group on nov .
29 appears to be only a starter . ( ... )
now that the everyday business of the office cherifien des phosphates ( ocp ) is handled by a team of senior executives , the company ’ s boss , mostafa terrab , is free to devote more time ( ... )
rabat is keeping a close eye on how the talsint affair is playing out in a federal court in austin , texas ( mc 1082 ) . ( ... )
morocco ’ s brand new energy and mines minister , fouad douiri , is one of the rare ( ... )
no comments on this topic yet .
be the first one to submit a comment. provide .
if the address is not valid or you don 't click on the validation preliminary report of the electoral observation mission of the oas in honduras oas co-organizes colloquium on regulation of political parties and financing in antigua- barbuda montserrat presents on use of ict in disaster management at un eclac workshop commentary : in south africa , a simple handshake provokes a predictably irrational response letter : was the flood tragedy at buccament caused by greed or simply by ignorance and stupidity ?
letter : lpm offers condolences to the families of the deceased in st lucia the businessman from somaliland djama omar saïd , who was arrested in djibouti for “ cigarette smuggling ” on 4 november and then released a few days later on the 10th of november ( > loi ( ... )
the legal proceedings by the djibouti government to confiscate the assets of abdourahman mahamoud boreh have gone all the way round the world . ( ... )
there is no end in sight to the chase between president ismail omar guelleh and his former friend now dissident and rival abdourahman mahamoud boreh . ( ... )
the businessman abdourahman boreh is in court in dubai , at the request of the djibouti authorities . ( ... )
zahra guedi , the niece of udjchairman ismaël guedi hared , who is one of the leaders ( ... )
the franco-algerian lotfi otmani has just replaced the mauritanian ould amar yahya ( ... )
contact us | about us | advertising | local links news | sports | obituaries | business directory | e-edition | rss feeds - rss is a format set up for sharing content on the web .
the following sections are available as rss feeds : powered by townnews.comarchive المجلة | عين اليقين | الاعداد السابقة february 20 , 2013 i am thanking you in advance for better equipping me to participate in the upcoming decision-making process through your clarifications on my few remaining questions : 1 .
what is guatemala ’ s official position as to how much of the territory ...
commentary : belizeans abroad should be given the right to vote on the icj referendum guatemala experts discuss the end of the mayan era and the dawn of another the government of brunei darussalam and cae brunei mptc to establish an asean center of excellence in brunei for ...
to get such a “ domesticated ” prosecutor , who unquestioningly abides by his deputy ’ s commands , miraglam mirzayev had to first get rid of obidov ’ s predecessor , bakhodyr valiyev , who had been appointed by president karimov himself .
to achieve that , mirzayev provoked valiyev to accept a $ 50,000 bribe from the administration of the private market abu-sakhiy .
the scandal was suppressed in exchange for valiyev ’ s resignation .
irgashev is the board chair of beniff ltd , a joint-venture construction company headquartered on sadyk azimov street ( next to the institute of traumatology and orthopedics ) in tashkent .
he acts as both the client and sub-contractor in construction projects .
irgashev ’ s key rule is to never introduce the client to the true contractor .
the rest of the story was as follows ( it is hard to say if the story is true , but it sounds good ) : shomurod called his boss , who happened to be … salim abduvaliyev , one of the known mob leaders in uzbekistan , who , according to some , had left the country and , according to others , had since returned .
abduvaliyev , experienced in how things work , having taken into consideration inoyatov ’ s influence and the circumstances , told shomurod to pay in full , but kept a grudge … “ emboldened by such easy money , irgashev thinks that his brother-in-law will lead the nss for the rest of his life , but he forgets that mafia is immortal and it does not forgive , ” say our agency ’ s sources .
it is reported that the deputy prosecutor of tashkent , miraglam mirzayev , also participated in the joint project of the prosecutor ’ s office and the osce titled “ assisting in developing anti-corruption policy . ”
film review of munich : speilberg and kushner smear israelby montana news association if you ’ re celebrating new year ’ s eve with a couple drinks , bernalillo county has a plan in place to help you get home safely – and some local party planners are also offering packages to make sure you don ’ t get behind the wheel if you shouldn ’ t .
they ’ ve set up packages with embassy suites that get you dinner and a room at the hotel , plus rides to and from the museum to enjoy the party and the cash bar they ’ re offering .
learn how the new mexico museum of art is the only place in north america to see the rare renaissance to goya exhibit . © 2014 laurentian publishingsilsbee football vs. west orange-stark on the bee © 2013 indexmundi - all rights reservedgoloading ... > > view all results for " " enter multiple symbols separated by commaslondon quotes now availablego homeeditionnewseconomyfinancehealth carereal estateretailwealthautosearningsenergymediapoliticscommentaryspecial reportsasiaeuropemarketspre-marketsu.s.asiaeuropestockscommoditiescurrenciesbondsfundsetfsinvestingfinancial advisorspersonal financecnbc explainsportfoliowatchliststock screenerfund screenertechmobilesocial mediaenterprisegamingcybersecuritysmall businessfranchisingfinancingmanagementvideolatest videodigital workshopu.s. videoasia videoeurope videoceo interviewsanalyst interviewsfull episodesshowswatch livecnbc u.s.cnbc asia-pacificcnbc europecnbc worldfull episodeswatch liveproregister | sign inmember centermember centersign outx martin soong , lisa oake , and bernie lo get jumpstart on the business day for corporate and financial communities .
newseconomyfinancehealth carereal estateretailwealthautosearningsenergymediapoliticscommentaryspecial reportsasiaeuropemarketspre-marketsu.s.asiaeuropestockscommoditiescurrenciesbondsfundsetfsinvestingfinancial advisorspersonal financecnbc explainsportfoliowatchliststock screenerfund screenertechmobilesocial mediaenterprisegamingcybersecuritysmall businessfranchisingfinancingmanagementvideolatest videodigital workshopu.s. videoasia videoeurope videoceo interviewsanalyst interviewsfull episodesclosed captioningshowswatch livecnbc u.s.cnbc asia-pacificcnbc europecnbc worldfull episodescnbcabout cnbcsite mapvideo reprintsadvertisecareershelpcontactprivacy policyterms of serviceindependent programming reportlatest news releasesrsscertain market data provided by thomson reutersdata also provided bydata is a real-time snapshot * data is delayed at least 15 minutesglobal business and financial news , stock quotes , and market data and analysis © 2014 cnbc llc . all rights reserved.a division of nbcuniversal raskin was reelected to the maryland senate in 2010 with 99.6 % of the vote .
the sage of monticello would be turning over in his grave the ghost of lochner sits on the supreme court and haunts the land newt may be zany on the courts , but mitt is just as dangerous " the huffington post " is a registered trademark of thehuffingtonpost.com , inc .
all rights reserved .. menubg " it is , i think , meant to try to reduce the prison population but in essence , it 's going to cause more of a backlog in the county jails and work-release facilities , " said able .
my guestion : do many folks over 60 stay in glasgow for the winter , or is the weather too severe ?
i 'm not thinking necessarily about temperatures , but rather about getting " around town " . is it too icy and slippery to easily drive or walk from your car to the market ?
currently we live in puget sound region of washington state , but the housing costs here are prohibitive for our retirement years and we want to do a few things with our lives other than pay a huge mortgage . we 've lived all up and down the west coast but never in prarie land and we are seeking some new adventure in our retired life !
the international year of quinoa may be coming to an end , but quinoa 's reign as one of the healthiest foods of all time will undoubtedly continue into 2014 and beyond .
we cook and eat quinoa like many other grains , but , botanically speaking , it 's a relative of spinach , beets and chard .
the part we eat is actually the seed , cooked like rice , which is why quinoa is gluten-free .
you can even eat the leaves !
ellen kanner : who grows our food : the fair trade quinoa farmers of the altiplano a day of infamy -- 71 years laterby j.d. longstreet not all marijuana users in colorado are toasting the dawn of retail sales .
the clinic marked the opening of sales by turning on a bob marley cd and hurriedly putting out inventory .
mad money host jim cramer explains how he got to where he is today at cnbc because he never lost sight of saving his money .
newseconomyfinancehealth carereal estateretailwealthautosearningsenergymediapoliticscommentaryspecial reportsasiaeuropemarketspre-marketsu.s.asiaeuropestockscommoditiescurrenciesbondsfundsetfsinvestingfinancial advisorspersonal financecnbc explainsportfoliowatchliststock screenerfund screenertechmobilesocial mediaenterprisegamingcybersecuritysmall businessfranchisingfinancingmanagementvideolatest videodigital workshopu.s. videoasia videoeurope videoceo interviewsanalyst interviewsfull episodesclosed captioningshowswatch livecnbc u.s.cnbc asia-pacificcnbc europecnbc worldfull episodescnbcabout cnbcsite mapvideo reprintsadvertisecareershelpcontactprivacy policyterms of serviceindependent programming reportlatest news releasesrsscertain market data provided by thomson reutersdata also provided bydata is a real-time snapshot * data is delayed at least 15 minutesglobal business and financial news , stock quotes , and market data and analysis © 2014 cnbc llc . all rights reserved.a division of nbcuniversalvideo - video on demand , albuquerque news video , new mexico news video | kob.com commentary : the us war on communism , drugs , and terrorism in colombia wait and see for passengers on stricken russian ship in antarctic ice the 17 lawmakers from the opposition uprona party and three cndd-fdd .
nobody can bet on his independence because he will be judge and jury , " the position of ombudsman was a provision of the 2000 it had not previously been filled due to the lack of the the ombudsman is meant to play a key role in crisis resolution and can also arbitrate corruption and rights cases if the judiciary by insecurity which the government blames on " armed bandits " who emerged after a bad sheriff investigator finally indicted for unlawfully detaining and assaulting handcuffed manby montana news robert levinson becomes one of the longest-held americans in historyby montana news billings bar red door hosts big sky montana " way to live " snow boarding exposeby montana news a climate of fear , crash and correctitudeby paul driessen and dennis mitchell home page | news | business | arts | sports | insight | portrait | editorials | upcoming events | web exclusives july 2008 : parishioners learn compassion is key to nonviolent communication kyrgyzstan ’ s southern capital , the city of osh , is known for its national cuisine and cooks .
only in osh one would eat the world-renowned baked samsa , pilaf , lagman and a variety of shish kabobs and mantys .
while the locals are , of course , well aware of the local foods , tourists find osh ’ s “ sweet spots ” in its cafes and restaurants .
shahid tepa is a heavily uzbek-populated neighborhood in osh .
owners of two local cafes decided to diversity their menus and add “ western flavor ” to their traditional pilaf and shish kabob .
new place , old problems : no water or electricity .
glimpsing at life of resettles in osh ( images ) kyrgyzstan 's osh mayor myrzakmatov : the city savior and man of year ?
is melis myrzakmatov really such a significant personality for southern kyrgyzstan ?
is he really who he says he is ?
we talked to a native resident of osh , who wished to remain anonymous , about this .
he says myrzakmatov is only pulling wool on people ’ s eyes and cares about his own personal benefit alone .
“ this is just another pr stunt .
he has donned the crown of a restorer and is now walking around with it .
it is sad to know that our mayor is just a conspicuous individual , and journalists are supporting that , ” n. says .
kyrgyzstan : a nazi and a drug lord in charge of police in osh ?
a murder in kyrgyzstan .
is a prominent human rights activist also a cop killer ?
the night before he was stabbed and burned to death , a small-town cop named maktybek suleimanov brushed off his wife 's pleas that he stay home and sit out the commotion on the streets .
suleimanov had wanted to be a policeman ever since he was a kid growing up in this turbulent corner of central asia .
he 'd ask his mother to pin strips of fabric to his t-shirt so they 'd resemble rank insignia .
sometimes he 'd go so sleep that way .
now suleimanov was 41 years old , had four kids of his own , and wore real shoulder straps of a police captain .
a broad-faced ethnic kyrgyz with a buzz-cut and a thin mustache , suleimanov was a gregarious man who liked to sing at family gatherings .
he had been a cop for 20 years .
war in the south of kyrgyzstan : present for bakiev or osh , stop !
the residents of chek village in the border area are asking to relocate them to kyrgyzstan kyrgyzstan : ombudsman tursunbai bakir uulu condemns tashkent for alisher saipov 's assassination osh governor visited the family of assassinated journalist alisher saipov where uzbekistan is heading or comments on the state of affairs in ferghana kishlaks transfer of the capital from bishkek to osh suggested again the son of andijan ex-governor detained in russia and turned over to the uzbek authorities russian broadcasts are resumed in the andijan region of uzbekistan uzbekistan : ex-hokim of the andijan region blamed for the events of may 13 , 2005 uzbek women account for one third of all hookers in the kyrgyz city of osh everybody is picking cotton in the namangan region of uzbekistan the son of the ferghana regional prosecutor decapitated secretary of the andizhan governor kyrgyzstan : elections to pick bishkek and osh mayors set for january 15 to dupuyer an annual event .
this year , he and catholics from the area gathered in the evening at inn dupuyer for a potluck meal and conversation .
the meal included fried chicken prepared by joe christiaens , who operates the bed-and-breakfast inn with his job training , placement target of extra $ 2m in new request to lawmakers church to be built in this part of the flathead it had for a hundred years into a stormy afternoon he said : & ldquo ; my idea concerning how normal citizens can be involved in the gas and fuel sector was that tanzanians are supposed to get education and get to know about gas , opportunities posed by the gas industry as well as how indigenous people can own blocks as tanzanian properties & hellip ; & hellip ; & ldquo ; this amount of money is going to assist me in my studies as the previous one helped me in my studies also , & rdquo ; the student said .
according to the minister , the building and the machines are valued at 4.2bn / - & ldquo ; however , this is mainly on paper and there is little effort to implement the law by the tanzanian government . & rdquo ; mwita nyasibora , the secretary of the butimbaru clan noted : & ldquo ; in the past , everything was being cut but it is not the case at the moment , only a small inch is removed . & rdquo ; mohamad chatah and four other people in the heart of beirut has sparked a whirlwind of speculation and denials , raising the level of insecurity in the saad hariri , was targeted .
so far , no one has claimed responsibility for the hizbollah for the murder but the shia group said , " no-one was a well-known opponent of syrian president bashar al-assad and of the war in syria , which has led to an intra-islamic strife across national works in a local shop .
" we are used to these things in lebanon , but not in this this site uses cookies .
by continuing to browse the site you are agreeing to our use of cookies .
find out more here .
by lauren r. rublina change appears to be under way in the markets .
our experts explain the risks , and highlight the opportunities .
bicester food bank toy parcels and lloyds bank donation .
janet ray , left and ann beveridge of the food bank.131219m-a196 whiles hezbollah fights in syria , al-qaeda ally emerges in lebanonby jim kouri judge baugh , " judge not lest you be judged " by montana news air force vet overcomes ptsd and sleep disorder with meidcal foodsby montana news obama dhs hired rasict official accused of advocating killing whitesby jim kouri the support and nurture of healthy , vibrant parishes is paramount to our efforts .
it is important to have a vision of what we want in parish life .
all proposals for the future will be faithful to the teachings of the catholic church .
each parish in one way or another is to have a pastor assigned to it who is responsible for the pastoral care of that parish .
( canon law 517 ) every effort should be made to provide opportunities for all members of the parish to be aware of and involved in the planning process .
the obama administration is inviting states to apply for arkansas-style medicaid expansions in an effort to woo those balking at traditional medicaid expansion .
les milices congolaises forceraient les civils à leur acheter des armes les milices congolaises forceraient les civils à leur acheter des dans l ’ est de la république démocratique du congo ( rdc ) , les groupes armés ont imposé une nouvelle loi aux familles des villages qu ’ ils contrôlent : chacune d ’ entre elles devra acheter une arme à feu auprès du groupe armé local , ce ne sont pas les armes qui manquaient déjà dans le masisi .
maintenant , et d ’ après de nombreuses personnes qui y ont fui la violence , posséder une arme à feu est devenu pratiquement une obligation dans certains des villages de ce ces personnes déplacées , qui appartiennent à différentes ethnies de la région , vivent dans un camp au village de shasha , non loin du masisi .
le soi-disant selon m. bonane , ceux qui essaient de retourner à leurs villages , pour s ’ occuper de leurs champs , se voient dire par les groupes armés qu ’ ils doivent acheter des armes à feu .
et une dizaine de ses compagnons , dont nyirumba vuleta , le m. vuleta affirme avoir été harcelé quand il est retourné à son village .
les hommes armés qui contrôlent le secteur lui ont dit que , puisqu ’ il a un champ , il doit avoir un fusil , et s ’ il n ’ en achète pas un , il devra partir .
mais ce n ’ est pas tout , explique m. bonane , il y a une troisième option : travailler comme un esclave .
selon lui , on force les villageois à acheter des fusils pour qu ’ ils puissent défendre leurs villages en cas d ’ attaque .
ceux qui ne se plient pas à cette décision sont obligés de travailler , sans paie , comme gardiens .
et si les désaccords avec le groupe armé local persistent , ils cette nouvelle loi sur les achats d ’ armes a été imposée en mai dans les territoires de masisi et de walikalé par les milices nyatura et raia mutomboki .
selon lui , des politiciens et certains officiers de l ’ armée fournissent ces armes , mais il a – comme beaucoup d ’ autres – refusé de s ’ armer , pour éviter parmi les politiciens identifiés par adolphe bonane : jean-bosco sebishimbo , un a la mission de l 'onu pour la stabilisation de la rdc , la monusco , une source dit qu ’ une équipe se rendra au camp de shasha pour enquêter sur ces allégations .
i had a nice article all ready for this space , a travel-and-history article about an ancient city in albania .
but my subconscious was very active last night , and today i can 't get over the dreams i had of the past , a past that apparently haunts me still .
the first time i woke up from a troubled sleep , i was in france .
[ person of the year ] pm recep tayyip erdoğan : only man in town [ event of the year ] gezi protests that let the genie out of the bottle dossierthe year of faith and the martyrdom of fr fausto tentoriojohn paul ii is beatified [ show all dossier ] dmca notice this is kent | profile for sevenoaks chronicle | sevenoaks chronicle chronicle what is the primary reason you are reporting this message as abusive ?
we must appreciate the plight of bereaved families and the fact that not all can afford to pay for such services .
newspaperssubscribeashley tribuneemmons county recordnapoleon homesteadprairie pioneersteele ozone & kidder county presswishek staradvertisingpublic noticesonline advertisingratesclassifiedsyour advertising needscommunitiesashleynapoleonwishekreal estatehome a tortured libyan man 's bid to sue the british government for allegedly colluding in his rendition cannot be settled in a uk court , the high court rules . ( 12 / 20 / 2013 6 : 21 : 20 am ) typically , when we travel , we use the airport as a means to get to the main attraction .
but sometimes an airport is so bizarre that it is the main attraction . ( 12 / 2 / 2013 9 : 25 : 58 am ) all you can eat buffet which is good . you are paying for convenience at this hotel .
nigeria 's " bad bank " amcon retires 4.69 trillion naira of debt © 2013 indexmundi - all rights reservedroad maps for thailand road maps .
road maps .
map of petchaburi , nakhon sawan highways , khon kean , ] [ kampaeng phet map , nakhon sawan map , chaiyaphun map , pichet map , uthai thani map ] [ phrae map , uttradit map , loei map , lampang map ] [ nong khai map , udon thani map , sakhon nakhon map , nakon phanom map , cambodian border map ] [ kalasin map , roi et map , udon ratchatani map , mukdahan map , cambodian map ] [ nakhon ratchasim map , buri ram map , udon ratchatani map , surin map , kalasin map , surin map , aranyaprathet map , cambodian lower border map ] [ northern thai map , chiangmai map , mae hong son map , chiangrai map , mae sai map ] [ nakhon sawn map , chai nat map , suphan buri map ] ' mtani jembe ' bitterness touches off yanga technical bench upheaval na michael eneza he was on the verge of being sacked himself for resisting change at the club , and all it needed was to point at a few of his own actions , which can at times be termed negative , to justify a move to suspend the chairman , but it was clear that it was the technical bench they were interested in clearing , with the chairman being a stumbling block .
he finally gave in and thus peace was restored .
the difference in a way was that at yanga there was no need to sideline the chairman so as to offload the technical bench to the streets , which can be either of two thing , that the club chairman understood , or he is ineffective .
usually traumatic decisions at any level involve a show of force , and the winning side is the one likely to capture the imagination of the fans .
france ’ s gallice security appears to be thriving in libya ’ s booming private security market .
the firm run by gilles lacaze and frederic gallois - the first once worked for dgse and ( ... )
stateline – montana ’ s bakken oil boom reshapes race for governor a comparison of u.s. army and marine strength in the pacific rim family of american held by al-qaeda tries to ’ keep hoping ’ read all of the stories in the washington post ’ s ongoing coverage of the national security agency ’ s surveillance programs .
copyright : material published in the intermountain commercial record , inc. online and in the foreclosure and notice of defaults reports is abstracted , compiled nad formatted at substantial expense for the sole and exclusive use of the subscriber and may not be copied republished or resold in any manner in whole or in part without the written consent in writing of the intermountain commercial record , inc ’ s publisher . any infringement will be subject to legal redress limited warranty / indemnity / limited liability : except for the express warranties stated herein , the intermountain commercial record , inc. disclaims all warranties including all implied warranties of merchantability and fitness for a particular purpose .
you understand and agree that your use of this web site and of any services or content provided ( the " service " ) is at your own risk .
services and content are provided to you " as is " , and the intermountain commercial record , inc. expressly disclaims all warranties of any kind , either implied or express , including but not limited to warranties of merchantability , fitness for a particular purpose , and non-infringement . ( b ) you will not impersonate or misrepresent your association with any person or entity ; you will not forge or otherwise seek to conceal or misrepresent the origin of any content provided by you ; cnbc 's brian sullivan predicts a lackluster year for the dow but has his eye on mexico 's stock market .
yes , politicians disappoint , but the key to handicapping dc in 2014 is to begin with diminished expectations .
newseconomyfinancehealth carereal estateretailwealthautosearningsenergymediapoliticscommentaryspecial reportsasiaeuropemarketspre-marketsu.s.asiaeuropestockscommoditiescurrenciesbondsfundsetfsinvestingfinancial advisorspersonal financecnbc explainsportfoliowatchliststock screenerfund screenertechmobilesocial mediaenterprisegamingcybersecuritysmall businessfranchisingfinancingmanagementvideolatest videodigital workshopu.s. videoasia videoeurope videoceo interviewsanalyst interviewsfull episodesclosed captioningshowswatch livecnbc u.s.cnbc asia-pacificcnbc europecnbc worldfull episodescnbcabout cnbcsite mapvideo reprintsadvertisecareershelpcontactprivacy policyterms of serviceindependent programming reportlatest news releasesrsscertain market data provided by thomson reutersdata also provided bydata is a real-time snapshot * data is delayed at least 15 minutesglobal business and financial news , stock quotes , and market data and analysis © 2014 cnbc llc . all rights reserved.a division of nbcuniversal.iweather epublished by pressmart [ digital magazine publishing ] diocese of duluth - catholic church in northeastern minnesota juzi , mamlaka ya udhibiti wa huduma za nishati na maji ( ewura ) , ilitangaza rasmi ongezeko la gharama za umeme kwa asilimia 50 .
bei hiyo mpya itaanza kutumika rasmi januari mosi , mwakani .
itakumbukwa kuwa januari 12 , mwaka jana , tanesco ilipandisha gharama za umeme kwa asilimia 40.29 .
sababu kubwa iliyotolewa na tanesco ya kupandisha bei ya umeme ilikuwa ni ongezeko la gharama za uendeshaji kuliko sababishwa na hali ya ukame katika maeneo yanayotiririsha maji katika mabwawa ya kuzalishia nishati hiyo .
mkurugenzi mdhibiti uchumi wa ewura , felix ngamlagosi , alisema hatua ya kuongeza bei ya umeme ilifikiwa kufuatia maombi ya tanesco yaliyowasilishwa kwa mamlaka hiyo .
kwa mujibu wa ngamlagosi , tanesco ilipendekeza kuongeza bei kwa asilimia 67.87 kuanzia oktoba mosi , mwaka huu .
ngamlagosi alisema baada ya kupitia maombi hayo ya tanesco pamoja na sababu zilizotolewa yakiwamo maoni ya wadau , ewura iliridhia umeme upandishwe bei .
alifafanua kuwa kufuatia mabadiliko hayo , kuanzia mwezi ujao , wateja wadogo wa majumbani hasa vijijini ambao matumizi yao hayazidi uniti 75 kwa mwezi , gharama zimepanda kwa sh .
40 kutoka sh .
60 za sasa hadi sh .
100 kwa uniti moja sawa na ongezeko la ssimilia 67 .
watumiaji wakubwa wa umeme majumbani , biashara ndogo ndogo , wenye mashine za kukoboa na kusaga nafaka , taa za barabarani , mabango , umeme umepanda kwa sh .
85 kutoka sh .
221 za sasa hadi sh .
306 kwa uniti moja sawa na ongezeko la asilimia 40 .
tanesco walipendekeza ongezeko la sh .
131 .
watumiaji umeme wa kawaida ambao hupimwa katika msongo wa volti 400 , na matumizi yao kwa mwezi yanafika uniti 7,500 ambao ni wafanyabiashara wakubwa na viwanda vya kati , umeme umepanda kwa sh .
73 kutoka sh .
132 za sasa hadi sh .
205 kwa uniti moja sawa na ongezeko la asilimia 55 .
tanesco ilipendekeza ongezeko la sh.145.
kundi la wateja wakubwa kama viwanda vikubwa waliounganishwa katika msongo wa kati , umeme umepanda kwa sh .
45 kutoka sh.121 za sasa hadi sh.166 kwa uniti moja sawa na ongezeko la asilimia 37 .
tanesco wakipendekeza ongezeko la sh.148.
kwa mujibu wa ngamlagosi , ongezeko la gharama hizo litadumu hadi mwaka 2016 kama utafiti unaotazamiwa kufanywa hautakamilika kabla ya mwisho ya mwaka 2015 .
kadhalika , alisema bei hiyo mpya itakuwa inarekebishwa kila baada ya miezi mitatu kulingana na mabadiliko ya kiwango na bei za mafuta , mfumuko wa bei , mabadiliko ya thamani ya fedha na upatikanaji wa ruzuku toka serikalini .
kwa hakika , ongezeko hili ni maumivu makali kwa watumiaji wa nishati hiyo na kutasababisha bidhaa nyingi na huduma pia kupanda bei .
hii inatokana na ukweli kwamba viwanda vinavyozalisha bidhaa hutumia umeme hivyo atakayebebehwa mzigo huo ni mlaji ambaye ni mwananchi .
tanesco imesema kupitishwa kwa maombi hayo kutaliwezesha shirika kupata fedha za uendeshaji na uwekezaji wa miundombinu , kulifanya shirika likopesheke na hivyo kuwezesha kupata mikopo yenye masharti nafuu , kuliwezesha shirika kukabiliana na ongezeko la mahitaji ya umeme kwenye gridi ya taifa na kuongeza uwezo wa kufanya matengenezo ya mara kwa mara ya miundombinu .
mkurugenzi mkuu wa tanesco , felchesmi mramba , alisema kuongezeka kwa kiwango hicho kutaisaidia tanesco kuboresha huduma zake kwa kununua vifaa vya umeme .
aidha , alisema pia kutasaidia kuboresha huduma pamoja na kuwapo kwa umeme wa uhakika utakaosaidiwa na kuanza kutumika kwa gesi mwakani .
sisi tunasema bei hii mpya kwa sasa ni kama haina mjadala kwa sababu na utaratibu wa kuanza kutumika tayari umewekwa .
tunachoishauri tanesco kwa sasa ni viwango hivyo vipya sasa viwe chachu ya kuboresha huduma zake .
mara kadhaa tanesco imekuwa ikipandisha bei ya umeme , lakini huduma zake hubaki katika kiwango kile kile , ikiwamo kukata umeme ovyo hata kwa shughuli ndogo za kuhamisha nguzo au kukata miti wakati kuna teknolojia ya kufanya matengenezo hayo bila kuzima umeme , lakini shirika haiitumii .
kwa mfano , kukatika katika kwa umeme mara kwa mara , umeme kuwa pungufu katika baadhi ya maeneo , mgawo usio rasmi na wateja wapya kucheleweshwa kuunganishiwa umeme , ni kero nyingine ambazo sasa wateja wa tanesco hawatarajii ziendelee kujitokeza .
kama alivyoahidi mkurugenzi mtendaji wa tanesco mramba , kwamba nyongeza mpya hii ya bei , itasaidia shirika kuboresha huduma zake ikiwamo ununuzi wa vifaa , basi tunaomba kauli hii itekelezwe. ippmedia.com © 1998-2013 .
all rights reservedsubscribe to the bee on the bee stateline – gas tax loses favor as governors look for new transportation money the reason is simple , says josh culling , the group ’ s state affairs manager : “ it is a big tax hike . ”
technabobsee realtime coveragevideo : how to stream pc games to your wii u gamepadbgr6 hours agowritten byjacob siegalwith the release of super mario 3d world last month , wii u owners finally had a reason to plug their consoles back in for the first time in quite a while.hackers stream pc games on wii u gamepadpc magazine - by stephanie mlotwii u gamepad hacked to stream pc games , nvidia shield up nextslashgear - by chris burnssee all 39 sourcesrelated : wii u fitbit update for ios removes the need for a fitbittrustedreviewsdon 't have a fitbit ?
there 's an iphone 5s app for thattechradar uk - by matt swidersee all 36 sourcesrelated fitbit forget tvs and watches , cars are the next big battleground for apple and googlebgr - by ben zigterman2014 poised to be the year of the in-car smartphone displaytechlicious ( blog ) see all 192 sourcesrelated google guardian expresssee realtime coveragepc sales grew despite naysayerscio today1 hour agowritten byjennifer leclairechromebooks accounted for 21 percent of all notebook sales in 2013 , up from a negligible share in the prior year , according to the npd group.hey , chromebooks are doing oktime - by jared newmangoogle chromebook sales is a serious threat to apple , microsoftvaluewalksee all 185 sourcesrelated : chromebooks aaa offering free new year 's eve rides to tipsy driversenterprise-recordaaa offers new year 's eve tipsy tow servicetoday 's news-heraldin depth : aaa tipsy tow 2013 : how to get a free ride home after new year 's eve ... international business timessee all 75 sourcesrelated aaa cows of the desert : camel milk set to go globalby montana news pagan america : creating god in our own imageby j.d. longstreet the billings community , venture theatre hosts a " canvas kickoff party " by montana news sounds of war drums grow louder : noth koreaby j.d. longstreet mindfulness in everyday life : why giving makes us so happy mindfulness in everyday life : the heart of leadership , an ode to nelson mandela mindfulness in everyday life : compassion and the art of having fun the world is a competitive place .
that is why it 's important to remember the value of kindness and compassion , or we might be taken over by a will to succeed at all costs and never have any fun or experience true joy .
there is a quote from the mindfulness in everyday life : a female call to arms to be yourself mindfulness in everyday life : the trials of michael jackson : how fame killed the king of pop mindfulness is an excellent intervention to help those in the public eye retain the requisite self-awareness to inoculate them against the greater ravages of the fame experience .
the on-going michael jackson wrongful death civil trial focuses on assessing who is responsible for the pop singer 's demise .
but , in the end , ...
mindfulness in everyday life : a walk in the woods and return to essential nature costa del sol newscosta blanca newsaxarquia - malaga east newscosta del almeria newsmallorca newsproperties in spain costa del solcosta blanca northcosta blanca southaxarquiacosta de almeriamallorcaspanish newsgibraltar leapy leepeter fieldmannora johnsonfia tarrantvicki mcleodmike walshstephen amoretony matthewsdavid danceycharities cornerric polanskyguest columnistbenny davistraveljim collinsnorman macleodcollin hallcraig irelandchris marshallsuzanne mannersulrica marshalljack gaionilaura pennjane plunkettdavid searlrichard shanleynick snellingclodagh and dick handscombeana jefferson-smithcassandra nashsally trotman film reviewrestaurantslifestyle ewn technologyshoppingbusiness ewnbook reviewhealth and beautyconnie 's pet cornerpets your letterstestimonialsjust fancy that ! gardeningdavid the dogmanpuzzles and gamesvideo newsadvertising featuremotoringmaddocks ' view on lifestreet talk costa blanca northcosta blanca southcosta del solcosta de almeriaaxarquia - malaga eastmallorca lorena recio was on her way home and was walking across a pedestrian crossing in a street in the capital when she was hit by a car .
the victim was struck on the thigh and suffered a cut on her forehead which required 17 stitches .
she had to be taken to hospital with three broken teeth.the mother of the victim said that the vehicle had no lights on , so her daughter did not have time to see the car and react .
customers from a nearby bar ran out to help the victim , but nobody managed to see the number plate of the car .
owing to the blow to the thigh suffered by the victim a headlight fell off the car and witnesses present believed it was a dark blue car , possibly a citroen c3 by the shape of broken headlight .
the family has requested the cooperation of citizens to find the owner of the vehicle , who rather than stop and help , fled the scene .
newton was brought home by broussard ’ s morturary in kountze and made a procession from bush intercontinental airport to lumberton before heading to kountze on tuesday morning .
a military review board declared the remains as unidentifiable in december 1955 and had the remains transferred to hawaii to be buried as unknown in the national memorial cemetery of the pacific , known as the & ldquo ; punchbowl . & rdquo ; © 2013 indexmundi - all rights reservedsmalltownpapers - the lakelander , whitney texasfanshawe student union > interrobang > jobs if you are a fanshawe student , and want to work for the fanshawe student union , the first step is to fill out a work study application .
click 27 un police in juba on peacekeeping missionsudan tribunejuba-situation : un begins additional troops deployment to jubaafrique en liguesee all 11 sourcesrelated united nations kenya president , ethiopia pm in juba for talkspublish date : dec 26 , 2013new visionsouth sudan embassy in washington says juba is ready for negotiationssudan tribuneopinion : crisis in south sudanjerusalem postin depth : us marines poised to enter south sudancnnsee all 3,611 sourcesrelated united nations kenya airways suspends flights to jubaallafrica.comkenya airways suspends juba flights againcapital fm kenyasee all 17 sourcesrelated south sudan nusayif describes resignations of some mps as " rejection to military operations against ...
us extradites man to israel who refused to divorce his wife barrick gold in 2014 : at the bottom with a bear da aliyah | | two decades on , wave of russian immigration to israel is an outstanding ...
israeli lawmakers sign petition to free convicted spy pollard imprisoned in us homehomehot topics ( 1 new ) current affairsworld newsbusiness & # 38 ; financeindustry sectorstechnologysciencesportlifestyleentertainment & # 38 ; artsworld newsworld newseuropenorth americalatin americacaribbeanasiaafricamiddle eastsouth pacificmiddle eastpersian gulf statesbahrainiraniraqisraeljordankuwaitlebanonomanpalestineqatarsaudi arabiasyriaunited arab emiratesyemen a drone operator speaks : " this is what you are not told " zero hedge 03 : 09 31-dec-13 assange & # 8217 ; s father met assad in damascusthe new york times : the lede ( weblog ) 23 : 48 30-dec-13 adeeb khalid : to speak of “ islam ” as a homogenous phenomenon is analogous to speaking of “ christianity ” as a single whole people , accused for the affiliation to the “ nur ” religious movement , are convicted in uzbekistan moslems in kyrgyzstan celebrated kurban bairam on december 19 .
as it turns out , however , the authorities dispersed the celebration in osh and had 48 men detained .
initiators of the celebration claim that the faithful were manhandled by the police .
dilmurat hadji orozov : « extremists are the people who believe that they alone are correct and revile everything else » kyrgyzstan : osh authorities do not permit hizb-ut-takhrir activists to celebrate the hait turkmenistan : the amnestied mufti offered a job with the presidential council for religious affairs the new law on religion is not even adopted in tajikistan yet but supernumerary mosques are being liquidated court does not permit a moslem girl to wear hijab to the college uzbek authorities are using islam to promote « development of society and prosperity of the country » tashkent and astana : on the brink of a diplomatic scandal andijani governor banned the azan ( call for the moslem prayer ) mufty of kyrgyzstan proclaimed the late qorasuv imam a shakhid ban to wear kerchiefs to schools in southern kyrgyzstan embittered students \ ' parents and the local moslem community the son of the missing theologian abduvali-kori mirzayev was arrested in andijan mass arrests of moslems are under way in uzbekistan .
arrestees include a cafe owner and a tv producer the committee for religious affairs of the government of tajikistan drafted a law on religion geneva , switzerland : occupier of gulnara karimova ’ s home finds rare copy of koran только самая свежая информация тут по visiondrive vd 1500mg pakistan news headlines celeb tax woes diocese of duluth - catholic church in northeastern minnesota the high turnover of staff is a sure sign that all is not well in the senegalese president 's office . ( ... )
the managing director of teranga gold corp and the man in charge of its relations ( ... )
no bar on purchase of private land : jairam ramesh to industry jadhav only olympic medallist to miss out on padma awards homehomehot topics ( 1 new ) current affairsworld newsbusiness & # 38 ; financeindustry sectorstechnologysciencesportlifestyleentertainment & # 38 ; artsworld newsworld newseuropenorth americalatin americacaribbeanasiaafricamiddle eastsouth pacificasiaasiaafghanistanarmeniaazerbaijanbangladeshbhutanburmacambodiacentral asiachagos islandschinaeast timorhong kongindiaindonesiajapankashmirkazakhstankoreakurdistanmalaysianepalmongolianorth koreapakistanphilippinessingaporesri lankathailandtaiwantibetturkeyvietnamindiacrimepoliticseconomyeducationenvironmentgoasportentertainment mumbai top cop welcomes hc order on deadline for hotelsoutlook india 17 : 11 31-dec-13 if you would like to contact us about a local touch with one of our telesales representatives by clicking here .
appropriations for the main development and public service sectors are as follows : ain-al-yaqeen | about us | archive ain al yaqeen diocese of duluth - catholic church in northeastern minnesota father james bissonette is the diocese ’ s vicar general .
he has expertise in canon law and experience as pastor of clustered parishes in marble / taconite and carlton / cromwell / wright .
liz hoefferle is a former director of religious education and a member of the bishop ’ s committee on catechesis for the diocese of duluth .
obama congratulates kenya 's new president in midst of riots , killingsby jim kouri homehomehot topics ( 1 new ) current affairsworld newsbusiness & # 38 ; financeindustry sectorstechnologysciencesportlifestyleentertainment & # 38 ; artsworld newsworld newseuropenorth americalatin americacaribbeanasiaafricamiddle eastsouth pacificlatin americalatin americasouth americacentral americasouth americaargentinaboliviabrazilchilecolombiaecuadorfalkland islandsperuuruguayvenezuela m-am gândit că ar fi interesant de citit un material legat de ceea ce înseamnă politica , mai mult într-o formă teoretică .
care sunt de fapt bazele pe care ar trebui să se deruleze actiunile politice , pentru că , dacă este vorba de practică , trebuie să recunoaştem că sunt mari diferenţe între aşteptări şi realitate .
datorită dezvoltării fără precedent a industriei farmaceutice şi a forţei sale economice , medicina actuală trece prea uşor peste valoarea terapeutică a alimentelor naturale , deşi însuşi hipocrat , părintele medicinii europene , spunea : & # 8220 ; hrana pe care o mănânci să-ţi fie medicament & # 8221 ; .
încă de la începutul anilor & # 8220 ; 80 , aşa cum recunosc şi organizaţia mondială a sănătaţii ...
sub patronajul american college of chest physicians ( accp ) şi societatea română de pneumologie ( srp ) la iaşi în perioada 20-22 mai 2010 va avea loc întâlnirea educaţională cu tema : “ actualităţi privind reabilitarea pulmonară şi ventilaţia mecanică la domiciliu ” , care va beneficia de prezenţa unor renumiţi specialişti străini ca speakeri şi participanţi .
printre organizatorii ...
în timp ce preocuparea româniei relativă la chestiuni extrateritoriale precum situaţia provinciilor kossovo şi transnistria , respectiv statusul militar autohton în irak , este extrem de manifestă , neglijarea ( volitivă sau doar aparentă ) a desfăşurătorului politic intrateritorial se dovedeşte similar de manifestă .
nejustificat de manifestă .
formarea unor grupuri regionale pe baza intereselor comune ale politicienilor din anumite zone ale româniei a devenit o modă în toate formaţiunile politice .
acest fenomen este extrem de vizibil în transilvania .
grupurile formale sau informale din interiorul partidelor urmăresc să conserve puterea unora dintre lideri sau să le ofere acestora forţă în negocierile cu conducerea centrală a ...
soluţia tot mai des vehiculată a salvării româniei din criză este promovarea turismului şi atragerea de investitori în domeniu .
în timp ce politicienii îşi bat capul pe la diverse simpozioane internaţionale , drumurile se fac praf , iar vechea structură pe care s-a clădit cândva turismul ajunge încet , dar sigur o ruină .
o serie de oameni de afaceri investesc în fotbal tocmai pentru a obţine vizibilitate .
cazurile ex-vicepremierului george copos şi cel al preşedintelui png , george becali , sunt cele mai notorii în acest sens .
la cluj însă lucrurile se petrec pe dos .
o serie de oameni de afaceri cu vizibilitate mare au ales să investească în fotbal ca să facă bani .
unii dintre ei au reuşit .
alţii s-au ...
lumea politică a clujului a fost zguduită de o serie de scandaluri legate de concesiuni ilegale de terenuri .
partidul cel mai puternic lovit a fost psd .
protipentada psd a beneficiat de atribuirea unor loturi generoase de teren în staţiunea beliş din munţii apuseni , la preţuri extrem de mici .
pe listele beneficiarilor concesiunii ...
când se vorbeşte despre târgu mureş , în general , oamenii se gândesc la un oraş cu aspect occidental şi multe femei frumoase .
când oamenii de afaceri vorbesc despre oraşul de pe mureş , se gândesc la lipsa de siguranţă a investiţiei lor din cauza întâmplărilor de acum 16 ani .
dacă se poate numi întâmplare acea ieşire aproape inumană a unora împotriva altora .
anul 2006 se anunţă cumplit pentru mai bine de 90 la sută din ţărani .
potrivit noului buget al ministerului agriculturii , nivelul subvenţiilor acordate agriculturii se reduce la 30 la sută , iar modalitatea de acordare a sprijinului de stat devine una extrem de ciudată .
practic , statul va subvenţiona modest doar viile , legumele şi livezile , plus câteva culturi care nu se mai cultivă de ...
“ in anii ’ 80 capitalismul a triumfat asupra comunismului .
in anii ’ 90 capitalismul a triumfat asupra democratiei si economiei de piata .
pentru aceea dintre noi care au crescut in ideea ca fundamentul democratiei si libertatii pietei este capitalismul , realizarea faptului ca sub capitalism democratia este vanduta celui care plateste mai mult de pe piata si ca piata este planificata de catre megacorporatii mai mari decat cele mai multe dintre state , a reprezentat o cruda trezire la realitate ...
scapat de sub controlul opiniei publice , capitalismul este boala democratiei si a economiei de piata . ”
emil constantinescu a primit premiul de excelență la conferința anuală a institutului de diplomație culturală noua conducere de la beijing- o reală schimbare în politica chineză ?
revoluția din decembrie  89 : pacatul originar , sacrificiul fondator & # 8211 ; emil constantinescu a fi musulman .
islam , pace şi democratie & # 8211 ; alteţa sa regală prinţul el hassan bin talal © 2011 cadran politic · rss · designed by theme junkie · powered by wordpress northjersey.com : ridgewood holy see ( vatican city ) news headlines newspaper software | connect email marketing | express website builderthai business news and handy honts for expats and tourists " 29 tanin co ltd " .
we can now offer you services at very services .
we also have khun nida bangklok and pattaya law services. the voting electorates recently & the inconvenience caused by the rak thai " to woo candidates away from there respective parties .
to buy other party candidates is a disappointment for the get involvedon the hunt for joseph kony - the washington post a look at how cities around the world rang in the new year .
not many movies play at westdale theatre , but the select few that do are almost always high calibre .
unfortunately , the way way back was an exception .
i saw the film this summer and was unimpressed by its clichéd coming-of-age story about a teenager vacationing with his family in a sleepy seaside town. and examples of the treatment of withholding tax and vat on payments of fees , took the view that the construction expense was a disallowable expense in the paid for the direct benefit of the land and houses in the permitted project. o deduct wear and tear and depreciation of such properties in accordance with if your accountant is not doing his / her job and you have problems with the revenue dept then ask us for advice .
this is free and we are used to dealing with them .
ask your accountant if they are experienced in the business they do for you and if in doubt ask us thailand .
if in doubt ask for their reg number . please note we cannot assist those expats who want fiancee visas to visit the usa , england etc .
all the may not include govt fees but please ask us .
changes may occur due to charges may change in the course of our work due to govt or law changes occurring to exporters list ] [ container cost ] [ shipping to usa ] [ shipping personal items ] [ shipping no parts or parts of this website may be copied , printed or circulated for trading post co ltd by way of contract .
all infringements will be an government has met the enemy and it is usby michael r. shannon billings public is invited to the " planning for the future of our city " community conversationsby montana news billings woman in a black audi hit 77 year old year old and then takes off from the scene of the accidentby montana news printingnewspaperswedding / engage formssubscribeventure marketingall papersbeulah beaconcenter republicanhazen starleader-newsmcclusky gazettemclean county independentmclean county journalmountrail county recordnorthern sentrynew town newsunderwood newsvelva area voiceadvertisinganniversariesbirthdaysclassified adsonline advertisingpublic noticesratessakakawea countrypumpin ' it upviking screen printscatalogkid scoopphone book newspapersbeulah beaconcenter republicanhazen starleader-newsmcclusky gazettemclean county independentmclean county journalmountrail county recordnew town newsnorthern sentryspecial sectionsunderwood newsvelva area voiceadvertisinganniversariesbirthdaysclassified adsonline advertisingpublic noticespumpin ' it upratescatalogsearchapparel privacy policyterms of useabout uscontact usemploymentlinksventure marketing © 2013 bhg , inc . all rights reserved . kuna : : services the news ticker , which is broadcasted through kuna ’ s internet website , is transferred to the subscriber ’ s website .
it includes the main headlines and the latest in news developments .
the monthly fee for the subscription is 50 kd as long as it is not less than three months .
the subscriber can choose one or both of the two categories : you may use these html tags and attributes : < a href = " " title = " " > < abbr title = " " > < acronym title = " " > < b > < blockquote cite = " " > < cite > < code > < del datetime = " " > < em > < i > < q cite = " " > < strike > < strong > calgary web design by media dog productionsbars , girls gogo , & fun and in pattaya many on our books at present .
pattaya is a haven for short time sex and theres fee to stay with you.-- costs without drinks = 1000 baht upwards .
try the butterfly bars or go to soi yadsak as this are pattayaland soi 2 which is predominantly owned by an american investor try the g spot bar with lots of girls right opposit the favoiurite drinking hole of bruce allport & english paul 's " jack & tars " which is my favourite and a good bunch of expats drinkers and regulars like english peter .
[ pattaya buffets ] [ pattaya foodland prices ] [ pattaya food places ] [ pattaya useful tel numbers ] [ pattaya best seafood restaurants ] [ pattaya bars ] [ pattaya car / motorcycle reg office ] [ thailand finance news ] [ pension funds ] [ depression looms 2008 ] [ hedge funds 2008 ] [ investing fund guidelines ] why you [ do not invest in finance companies ] [ buy gold not shares or invest in finance companies ] [ thai property speculation & sub prime crises ] & ldquo ; kilimo kwanza is good but it should be conducted sustainably in a manner that does not compromise the wild life , & rdquo ; she urged . & ldquo ; she added that unsustainable kilimo kwanza being conducted between mpanda kipengere and usangu valley is letting us down .
this situation is not healthy for our animals and our life altogether . & rdquo ; for his part , the former director of forestry and beekeeping division in the ministry of natural resources and tourism dr felician kilahama , said normally catchment areas , and forests are the ’ lungs ’ for the wellbeing of our nation something , which is not properly portrayed in various national policies and decision making machinery . & ldquo ; now it is an opportune time to request tanzanians to give priority to conservation of forests and wildlife resources for the wellbeing of the nation and sustainable economic growth , & rdquo ; he said .
this trend sounds a warning that the level of water use and the management of natural resources is unsustainable and could result in irreparable damage to the environment .
if that were to happen , neither the catchment area nor the river will be able to contribute to the general development of the area .
try another request or click here to search for all pages on privacy policyterms of useabout uscontact usemploymentlinksventure marketing © 2013 bhg , inc . all rights reserved. if fishing was not discontinued .
canada has been worried about the overfishing geese on their annual migration , by imprinting the chicks on the aircraft. not seen in alaskan waters but the summer 's warmer-than-usual temperature a type of arctic sandpiper , has been dying off in " astounding numbers " online abonelike-gazetehoşgeldi̇n 201401 ocak 2014 çarşambaanasayfaekonomifinansdış haberlerpolitikatoplumsektörlerkategori̇lerfinansne , nerede , ne zamangündembi̇k i̇lanlarıdünya ihtdış i̇lişkileremtiai̇şletme-yönetimmevzuatnews in englishgüncelyorum i̇ncelemebölgelerdenözel dosyalarresmi gazetetiger monitorbankacılık sektörübilişimdemir-çelik sektörüenerji sektörügıda sektörühaberleşme sektörühizmetleri̇nşaat sektörükimya-petrokimya sektörümadencilik sektörümağazacılık-perakendecilik sektörümedya sektörüotomotiv sektörüplastik-kauçuk sektörüsanayisavunma sanayiisigortacılık sektörütarım ve hayvancılıktaşımacılık sektörütekstil sektörüturizm sektörü17 : 48 - putinden , gül ve erdoğana yeni yıl mesajı17 : 32 - yılın yazar , fikir insanı ve sanatçıları açıklandı17 : 29 - filistinin prag büyükelçisi hayatını kaybetti17 : 24 - bulgaristanda asgari ücret 340 leva oldu17 : 22 - türkiye , avrupa ’ nın 11. zengini ! 17 : 16 - kuzu paralel devlet twitlerine açıklama getirdi17 : 15 - ötv artışı sektörü kötü etkileyecek16 : 38 - sayıştay tcdd raporu : gerekirse soruşturulsun16 : 03 - resmi burslu öğrencilere yeni yıl sürprizi15 : 54 - fakıbabadan türgeve 3 milyon liralık arsasizin i̇çin özel tekliflerimiz burada yer alan yazılı ve görsel içerik , izinsiz olarak , kısmen ya da tamamen kopyalanamaz başka yerde kullanılamaz .
dünya onlinedünya grubu hakkındaonline künyedünya gazetesi künyesiabonelikalışverişrssreklami̇letişimdiğer sitelerimizkobiden.comdunyastore.compcworld.com.trcomputerworld.com.trbyte.com.trdunyagida.com.trdunyainsaat.com.trdünya ekonomi tv albania crude oil consumption by year ( thousand barrels per day ) 75 mtwara schools get digital learning tools na waryoba yankami hadija mcheka , assistant registrar in the ministry of education and vocational training , speaking on behalf of the ministry ’ s permanent secretary , prof sifuni mchome said the government intends to integrate ict in education so as to transform the country into a well-knowledgeable society. ask us for small quantities under 1cbm .
all our terms are lof c or tt transfer before products to the uk & eu & usa have quotas which you must pay for before polyester etc & are levied per each on top of the quoted buying price .
we reserve the right to change quotations if shipping / government loads only in thailand .
let us do the work for you chillie bins & ice boxes , coolers with new designs just out july you have your own cgi bin form & all inquiries go back direct to you .
as websites for inquiries & how to start .
if you want us to source and quality control right to shipping your goods we handle everything as we now have our own [ types of ice boxes , chillie bins , coolers for hot and cold applications of privacy and our company will act accordingly .
see faqs sweden - no reason why eu iran sanctions will not be eased in january swissinfo libya pm hopes oil ports will reopen on sunday swissinfo sharjah arrives to nyc and dc for record-breaking business and tourism campaign how the end of ramadan is marked around the world media kit | wn toolbar | languages | wn links | advertise | © 2013 wn network two msu students , a man and a woman swept away in snow avalancheby montana news billings attorney , jeffery g. michael and missoula attorney , ronald marc klotzer are in a club all to their ownby montana news for his part , the mji mkongwe legislator , ibrahim sanya , asked whether the government has done a research to see the importance of olive oil in the economy . $ 550 mil millones ha destinado el gobierno al desarrollo social del país en 10 añosel presidente maduro explicó que los recursos se han invertido en proyectos de educación , alimentación , salud , cultura y viviendahabrá cielo nublado con lloviznas aisladas durante la mañana de este martesdelta amacuro , monagas , sucre , anzoátegui , distrito capital , miranda , bolívar y amazonas , son las entidades en las que se observarán lluvias durante las primeras horas ... hombre recuperado de situación de calle da testimonio de que se puede vivir sin drogaspersonas recuperadas después de haber estado en situación de calle participaron como voluntarios en una jornada de atención integral para quienes todavía no se han ... $ 550 mil millones ha destinado el gobierno al desarrollo social del país en 10 años habrá cielo nublado con lloviznas aisladas durante la mañana de este martes hombre recuperado de situación de calle da testimonio de que se puede vivir sin drogas el primer eclipse total de luna ocurrirá el 15 de abril , tendrá una duración de 78 minutos y podrá ser presenciado totalmente en américa del sur y américa del norte , y parcialmente en europa y áfrica para enero se estima la culminación de las casas de abrigo en distrito capital y monagas .
le siguen en febrero las de los estados trujillo , mérida , cojedes , portuguesa y sucre .
en marzo , carabobo , yaracuy , apure , guárico , lara y nueva esparta un total de 9.050 nuevos pensionados fueron incorporados al instituto venezolano de seguros sociales ( ivss ) , correspondientes al mes de enero de 2014 el jefe de la unidad de nefrología y diálisis del huc , douglas pérez , informó que el ministerio del poder popular para la salud dotó al centro hospitalario , hace cuatro años , con seis máquinas de hemodiálisis , adicionales a las 10 existentes para el momento fidel castro : mandela ha muerto ¿ por qué ocultar la verdad sobre el apartheid ?
alcaldes y gobernadores de oposición prueban que fascismo nace en medios privados hace 31 años en vargas el cielo ardió con la tragedia de tacoa gobierno del distrito capital ha cancelado prestaciones e intereses a 8.935 personas servicios contáctenos ida laplume - woonsocket | the valley breeze she was the wife of the late paul e. laplume .
born in woonsocket , she was a daughter of the late giuseppe and margueritta ( cicolella ) suffoletto .
ida was a homemaker and loved spending time with her family .
she was an avid red sox , patriot and bruins fan .
she is survived by her three children , ann marie and her husband edward schneider of aiken , s.c. , paul and his wife kathy laplume of north smithfield and andrew and his wife lynn laplume of marshfield , mass . ; and seven grandchildren and eight great-grandchildren .
she was the mother of the late peter j. laplume .
she also was predeceased by her 13 siblings .
the recent demolition of two of the four houses in las terreras , cantoria , continues to have repercussions in the world 's media .
this week spanish magazine interviu has published an article entitled " el infierno estaba en el paraíso " ( hell was in paradise ) and a story has appeared on the bbc news . & # 8230 ; la nucia ’ s alberca ecoparque will be recycling 30 different types of waste by 2014 .
the second phase at the calle guadalest installation on la nucia ’ s industrial estate has now been completed .
the third and final stage of fencing and landscaping the 4,000-square metre centre is due to begin early next & # 8230 ; sealing youth offender records brings ‘ chance at a new life ’ newspoliticsvote 2013vote 2012societyhealthpensionshuman rightsenvironmentfeaturesmama makes it betterthe spitak quakeeconomycrisisit and telecomgenocidekarabakhcommentaryopinioneditorialoutside eye # block-menu-primary-links ul.menu li.expanded arts and culturesportschessboxingweightliftingwrestlingbasketballtennisother sportsmultimediavideofeature photogallery on december 13 , poet , member of armenian writers ’ union hrachya berberyan died of brain stroke , at the age of 61 .
geocaching uses gps to find hidden trinkets and a log list left behind by people all over the world .
there are thousands hidden in new mexico , and it can be quite an adventure .
a map of all the hidden geocaches in the city and a map of the national sex offender registry shows that some geocaches are less than 500 feet from a sex offender 's home .
operesheni uhai was deliberately carried out after it was realized that the number of jumbos had tremendously decreased from 350,000 during independence to 55,000 in the 1980s .
kejriwal 's new year gift to delhiites : delhi cm halves electricty tariff and ... india today - by manjeet sehgalaap , arvind kejriwal deliver on delhi power tariff promiselivemintopinion : delhi discoms out of cag ambit , can kejriwal deliver ? moneycontrol.comsee all 2,405 sourcesrelated arvind kejriwal after delhi gets 50 % cut in power tariffs , congress mp sanjay nirupam warns of ... daily news & analysiscongress mp sanjay nirupam says cut power tariff in mumbai like aam aadmi ... india todaysee all 32 sourcesrelated sanjay nirupam delhi stare at defeat as sehwag , gauti flop yet againtimes of indiavinay four-for leaves delhi in disarrayespncricinfo.comsee all 77 sourcesrelated ranji trophy firstpostsee realtime coveragebeyond delhi : how the aap is readying to win over haryanafirstpost- & lrm ; 13 hours ago & lrm ; after the party 's unbelievable performance in neighbouring delhi , haryana was expected to be the next target of the party given the many allegations of corruption in the state , the key campaign issue for the aam aadmi party.delhi conquered , aap 's next target is haryana , says yogendra yadavibnlivesee all 25 sourcesrelated : haryana delhi police to give rs 38 lakh to killed constable 's familyindia todaydelhi police to give rs 38 lakh aid to constable 's familyzee newssee all 52 sourcesrelated ghitorni church at 4 p.m. on saturday , oct .
12 and was “ heartsick ” as he discovered the sanctuary had been vandalized .
the glass altar top had the floor , furniture and piano keys .
“ it ’ s just bewildering to me that viewed the damage with the parish council in what he said was a mix of “ tears and gratitude ” that no further damage was done .
mary lou that the eucharist was not desecrated and we are praying for the person with felony burglary and misdemeanor counts of criminal mischief , disorderly for a foreigner take a thai with you but check if nice paint the car hasn 't been filled with plastibond .
if new grill etc check for signs of a repaint .
even ask to put thru a test at b = quik or auto care if you think the underneath needs new ball joints etc. and always check for leaks and if the oil has been changed .
make sure the reg book shows both the numbers for chassis and engine and are correct .
paint jobs are cheap in thailand as are body work .
make sure battery not too old but batteries too are cheap 1000 baht upwards and look at the clutch fluid etc heights .
if low then check underneath the car for tell tale signs or leaks .
if you have a mechanic friend to go over with you even better .
just remember cars are dear in thailand and theres many to choose from so always ask for a discount. make sure the spare tyre is ok and you have jack and wheel , brace .
you can even buy a thai car mag in any bookshop so then you get a feeling for the price you want to pay for .
have change of ownership form with you and power of attorney so your thai friend can do the change over .
basically if biying used cars take to b quik or auto care as these guys go over every car with a report .
parts for popular cars are cheap. eg isuzu pickups are the best unless you want a vigo but 3 lutre vigos are juicy on the gas .
parts for isuzuis are really cheap and the gold top motor is the best motor if looking at pickups .
watch out when you hire a motorcycle in pattaya as the old scams of renting you a bike then stealing it back off you .
only hire from a hotel you are staying at or reputable hirage place and carry your own chain or lock if you have not gota good lockup .
if stolen they will want the equivalent of what the bike is worth so be careful .
this is an old scam thats back in vogue again and some police are even involved as in may 2009 a policeman from lumpini branch was arrested stealing bikes as his income was too low.also many books or reg tabians have been copied so be careful buying bikes , take our advice and use auto care or b quik garages as these are the best in thailand .
[ more help on buying and car repairs in thailand ] [ non immigrant visas ] [ lawyer costs & services ] [ visas ] [ re-entry visa ] [ work permits ] [ companies ] [ limited partnerships ] [ tourist visas ] [ residency visa ] [ 1 year visa ] [ thai license ] [ company tax ] [ income tax ] [ company vat ] [ read expats newsboard ] [ visa costs ] [ visa checkpoint emails ] xtra cab ] [ cars ] [ our shipping services ] [ shipping info ] [ uk freight clearance agent ] bangkok highways and expressways : [ bangna highway ] [ pattaya highway7 to nakhon nayok ] [ overhead highwayto bangna ] go to [ truck & bus tyres : recaps ] [ truck & bus tyres : recaps ] [ truck & bus tyres r1 : used no recap ] [ truck & bus tyres : shipping ] [ truck & bus cost & sizes ] more [ charcoal pics ] [ charcoal grades , sizes ] [ charcoal grade 2 , sizes ] [ charcoal shipping ] products ] [ new condos chiangmai ] place your banner on our website & get more hits add your banner to our website : new mexico may have become the 14th state to allow gay marriage – or at least part of the state .
wednesday ’ s developments are the latest in a tangled history of the gay marriage debate in new mexico .
the state is the only one in the u.s. without a law that explicitly bans or allows same-sex marriage or civil unions and the state ’ s marriage statutes are seen as gender neutral .
doña ana county ’ s action is the latest in a string of moves by local officials elsewhere deciding to issue same-sex marriage licenses in the wake of the supreme court ’ s ruling .
top storiesnews near youindiaworldbusinesstechnologyentertainmentsportsmichael schumacherthe ashescorey andersonpakistanyuvraj singhstanislas wawrinkachennai openmahendra singh dhoniranji trophyjacques kallissciencehealthmore top storiesspotlighttop storiesnews near youindiaworldbusinesstechnologyentertainmentsportssciencehealthmore top storiesspotlightsportsfirstpostsee realtime coveragerio olympics : sushil to compete in 74kg category , yogeshwar in 65kgfirstpost- & lrm ; 4 hours ago & lrm ; putting to rest all speculations , it was confirmed on wednesday that star wrestlers sushil kumar and yogeshwar dutt will compete in 74kg and 65kg categories respectively at the 2016 rio olympic games to avoid face-off against each other.related sushil kumar wrestler sushil kumar to compete in 74kg in rio olympic games , yogeshwar ... mid-daysushil kumar to compete in 74kg in rio games , yogeshwar in 65kgzee newsin-depth : sushil kumar to compete in 74kg category at rio olympics , yogeshwar dutt in ... ndtvsee all 9 sourcesrelated sushil kumar the hindusee realtime coveragetop seed wawrinka sends becker packingthe hindu- & lrm ; 7 minutes ago & lrm ; much was expected on new year 's day at the aircel chennai open .
the thought of watching the top two seeds - stanislas wawrinka and mikhail youzhny - in back-to-back matches on centre court must have been enticing enough for the holiday crowd to ... related stanislas wawrinka no. 2 mikhail youzhny falls ill , quitsespnatp chennai open : top seed stanislas wawrinka sailed into the quarter-finalsskysportsin-depth : tennis : youzhny concedes ; easy win for wawrinkabusiness standardsee all 53 sourcesrelated stanislas wawrinka ranji trophy quarterfinal venuesthe hindubcci finalises venues for ranji trophy knockout gamescricket countrysee all 7 sourcesrelated board of control for cricket in india yusuf pathan discharged from hospitalcricket countrypathan discharged after complaining of nauseabusiness standardsee all 5 sourcesrelated yusuf pathan jacques kallis : has he retired too early ? givemesportcan kallis really be called an allrounder ? espncricinfo.com ( blog ) in-depth : jacques kallis : the understated legendlivemintsee all 62 sourcesrelated jacques kallis pak wins under-19 asia cup by beating india by two wicketszee newssami aslam could be pakistan 's answer to pressure and futurethe nationalin-depth : pakistan beat india by two wickets in u-19 asia cupibnlivesee all 24 sourcesrelated asia cup ishwar pandey rewarded for consistent domestic showtimes of india - by ruchir mishramy call-up has come at the right time : stuartfree press journalin-depth : yuvraj out of nz odis ; ishwar pandey gets maiden test and odi call-upibnlivesee all 133 sourcesrelated yuvraj singh the hindusee realtime coveragejadhav 's son laments padma snubdeccan herald- & lrm ; 1 hour ago & lrm ; a technicality in the government rules for posthumous padma awards has rendered india 's first individual olympic medallist k d jadhav ineligible for the coveted civilian honour and his son ranjit is so aghast that he now wants to throw away the bronze his ... 1st oly medallist jadhav still awaiting padma awardpress trust of indiasee all 10 sourcesrelated : khashaba dadasaheb jadhav prime minister recep tayyip erdogan says his opponents ’ actions are part of an international plot .
this year ’ s seniors are set to be the first to enter a force not fighting iraqi or afghan insurgents .
shiite muslims commemorate the day by mourning the martyrdom of the prophet muhammad ’ s grandson .
infographic : how to make a snow sculpture mon dec 30 , 2013 3 : 27 pm est emissions tests requirement to set in sat dec 28 , 2013 11 : 27 pm est will lds bishops be forced to perform same-sex marriages ?
mon dec 30 , 2013 7 : 27 pm est extra officers scheduled for new year ’ s eve dui enforcement mon dec 30 , 2013 5 : 27 pm est utah not picked by faa for drone-testing sites mon dec 30 , 2013 1 : 27 pm est reyes to be sworn in as new utah attorney general mon dec 30 , 2013 1 : 27 pm est unwed father alleges racketeering in adoption lawsuit mon dec 30 , 2013 9 : 27 pm est what ’ s next if all antibiotics fail ?
mon dec 30 , 2013 9 : 27 pm est new byu study offers hope for malnourished children mon dec 30 , 2013 7 : 27 pm est police : driver claims ’ voices in head ’ told him to let go of wheel mon dec 30 , 2013 5 : 27 pm est the day utah became a state mon dec 30 , 2013 7 : 27 pm est reyes sworn in as utah ’ s new attorney general mon dec 30 , 2013 7 : 27 pm est police say drowning in slc park accidental mon dec 30 , 2013 7 : 27 pm est uvu philosopher was a public intellectual mon dec 30 , 2013 9 : 27 pm est bountiful gives 1-year reprieve to e-cigarette stores mon dec 30 , 2013 5 : 27 pm est new year ’ s options abundant mon dec 30 , 2013 3 : 27 pm est evading hitler ’ s grasp mon dec 30 , 2013 07 : 27 am est pike ’ s plan for st. george sun dec 29 , 2013 07 : 27 am est canines chase flyball titles sun dec 29 , 2013 07 : 27 am est december 7 , 2013 , was a historical day in the community living on mountain hill side of usambaras in lushoto district , tanga region . & ldquo ; we have high expectations from you ( undergraduates ) . remember , we did not establish sekuko and now sekomu as an act of imitation , but we did so for obvious reasons & rdquo ; , said the academic , sternly .
she said & ldquo ; compassion breeds diligence in work performance as well as forbearance – an act of lowliness . & rdquo ; & ldquo ; it is the obligation of all of us to strive to ensure that people living with disabilities of various kinds do not continue to be recipients of charity ’ .
as a cheapskate with an enormous appetite , maximizing value in such matters was critical .
i picked up a job with sun media corp. and did a little freelancing on the side , but the income was not enough to keep up with steadily growing family expenses .
however , i did not get past # 23 on the list because i had too much work on my plate from the top companies .
nacte readies inspections on journalism schools next month na nelson kessy timothy manyaga , the nacte director of institutional guidance and support , said in an interview midweek that the council has given a few weeks before inspections are conducted , for the institutions to show how far they merit registration on the basis of nacte standards .
senate benghazi report blames the fbi , cia but exonerates obamaby jim kouri gun owners mad as hell and will not take it ! by j.d. longstreet from exuberant mud festivals to a solitary life in a welsh wooden ...
in the new / ryota sakamoto / promoting checkups among elderly bhutanese at large by melanie erwinare you ready to rumble ?
or at least ready to read about rumbling ?
we take a flying leap from the top of the turnbuckle into the hard-hitting world of central pa professional wrestling .
the czar checks out pr 's new look and new menu . © 2013 indexmundi - all rights reservedfanshawe student union > interrobang fsu stands for fanshawe _ _ _ _ _ _ union ( answer found at top and bottom of page ) answer : law service " .
we offer foreigners and expats that little bit we offer all foreigners our free litigation advice service .
if you have a problem then ask us for free .
this is the only service in thailand that offers you for free .
we aim to help expats and save you money. lawyers for overseas compnaies wishing to set up in thailand .
our speaking so you understand what is needed to retain a good accountant .
please email us or go to costs & services ] [ visas ] [ re-entry visa ] [ work [ thailand finance news ] [ pension funds ] [ depression looms ] [ hedge funds ] [ investing fund guidelines ] why you [ do not invest in finance companies ] [ buy gold not shares or invest in finance companies ] [ thai property speculation & sub prime crises ] [ investment property guide ] [ borrowing money ] [ using thai company to hold property ] [ best option for foreigners buying ] on 4 dec 2013 , the former mayor of the kyrgyz capital , isa omurkulov , “ voluntarily resigned ” from his post ; his counterpart in osh was dismissed from post the very next day .
the two events stirred a lot of emotions in the two largest kyrgyz cities .
elections for the vacant positions are scheduled for january 2014 .
the issue of just who will preside in the osh city hall is not only a pressing one for osh resident , but it is also a sensitive one for the central authorities in this mountainous country .
obviously , bishkek wants to have “ a reliable handyman ” in osh , not a rebel — an unconditionally complying official , in short .
however , one could perhaps be sure that opposition-minded melisbek myrzakmatov will recapture his former chair and will be a new , yet old head of the city .
uzbekistan : thinking out loud about gulnara karimova as her father ’ s “ victim ” birdamlik opposition movement allocates $ 16k to initiate “ velvet revolution ” in uzbekistan bakhodir choriyev : my father ’ s case is testimony to legal nihilism and injustice in uzbekistan merciless uzbekistan : new law on registration throws orphans out to street lawyer nurbek toktakunov : kyrgyz ombudsman ’ s power is in lack of authority what freedom ? !
posing the “ uzbek question ” to the osce representative for mass media fazliddin kurbanov ’ s case , or how president islam karimov ’ s opponents are persecuted in the usa uzbek president : “ it is impossible to encircle the internet with an iron fence or ban it ” “ the state , it is i ” or an unsuccessful bid to meet gulnara karimova “ the ministry of truth ” of uzbekistan : art of lying through teeth gulnara karimova and film : gerard depardieu as the latest whim of the uzbek princess letter to azimjan askarov , or new york will wait for the laureate obidhon nazarov , imam shot in sweden , is recovering and uzbeks leave stromsund maksim bakiyev tracked not only in bishkek , but also in the states ?
dumb slaves , or cotton under the barrel of a gun dance of devils – a new novel by hamid ismailov kyrgyzstan : azimzhan askarov ’ s lawyers insist on review of his case uzbekistan : old russian woman to go to jail for a pack of pills uzbekistan : rustam usmanov ’ s son applies to the president of uzbekistan for a pardon uzbekistan : jamshid mukhtorov arrested in the usa and a former police officer from uzbekistan used to be friends uzbekistan : what ’ s the use of “ corn labyrinths ” for tourism development ?
" in kyrgyzstan , corruption is not a problem for the state , it is the state " presidential election in kyrgyzstan to contribute to regionalism and set the grounds for future opposition high up on a tightrope … and only sky is above it happened on christmas eve , and the story is developing on monday .
it happened at the intersection of st. francis and alameda on christmas eve around 5 p.m.
the driver mendoza is talking about turned out to be a rio arriba county sheriff 's deputy.the badge was his own .
now the deputy is under investigation , and may face charges of assaultwith a deadly weapon .
" the rio arriba sheriff 's office was informed of the allegations , " said mendoza .
" that behavior is not befitting of an officer , " said mendoza .
kazakh president nursultan nazarbayev , as an experienced politician and one of the founding fathers of the eurasian integration , has not yet put forward any certain political demands and & # 8230 ; mortgage servicer wants to expand , add jobs in elma mon dec 30 , 2013 2 : 21 pm est new york holds off florida -- at least for now mon dec 30 , 2013 2 : 21 pm est upgrades in store for northwest atms mon dec 30 , 2013 2 : 21 pm est 2013 review : which wny community has the largest concentration of old homes ?
mon dec 30 , 2013 12 : 21 pm est new year will bring thrills and chills mon dec 30 , 2013 10 : 21 pm est ny senate gop , progressives detail tax plans tue nov 19 , 2013 8 : 21 pm est lewiston crash kills two mon dec 30 , 2013 08 : 21 am est options for safe new years eve driving sun dec 29 , 2013 8 : 21 pm est ready to rock sun dec 29 , 2013 04 : 21 am est ken west edges o ’ hara in tournament thriller sat dec 28 , 2013 04 : 21 am est no. 2 : riv makes way for expansion sat dec 28 , 2013 04 : 21 am est montana has been working for years to try to reduce the number of people who die there on the road .
maine the latest state to institute a ban on indoor tanning for some teenagers , california and vermont .
in new york and now in new jersey , home of shore , the minimum age for tanning beds is 17 , regardless of what a teen ’ s not guilty to charges of child endangerment and a grand jury chose not to tanning booths deliver 10 to 15 times the uv radiation of natural sunlight , boosting the user ’ s risk of developing deadly melanoma by at university feinberg school of medicine .
but according to the indoor tanning from the indoor tanning association .
“ since the tax went into effect , we regulates tanning beds , has not taken a formal position on the issue of teen christie the dem 's choice for gop presidential candidateby j.d. longstreet john kerry concedes obama 's spy team " reached too far " by jim kouri a billings convenience store robbed at gun pointby montana news why obama wants to pack the dc circuitby curt levey verizon line accidently cut in the big timer areaby montana news for the eighth consecutive year , the american public has rated pbs the most trustworthy institution amoung nationally know organizations and an excellent use of tax dollars .
research and markets has announced the addition of the " equatorial guinea oil and gas markets outlook to 2025 ( 12 / 10 / 2013 7 : 04 : 00 am ) what yoga can do for youhealth24.coma brief look at yoga 's place in the medical worlduniversity heraldsee all 19 sourcesrelated yoga calorie counting at the vending machinestjoechannel.comobamacare rule requires vending machine calorie counts ? fox businesssee all 208 sourcesrelated regulations resistance to antibiotics ...
by amnapaktribune.comantibiotic use in livestockaginfo.netsee all 28 sourcesrelated antibiotics december 30 , 2013 let me commend and congratulate you , mr editor , and the entire staff of your website caribbeannewsnow.com for affording me the opportunity to express myself on your site .
your website is a beacon of hope to the people of the caribbean and is a forum in which they can express their views .
commentary : law and politics : now we have the budget - what next ?
letter : soldiers for christ : in the footstep of tillman thomas commentary : law and politics : a budget of nearly one billion december 10 , 2013 our 2014 budget has been in the news for many months now and , even before it was finally presented by the pm and finance minister , it had to be put off for four days or so because the pm was off the island .
but whatever it may contain , after nearly one year since the all powerful controllers regained the reins ...
letter : grenadians taxed to death by dr mitchell and the nnp letter : an act of terror - is dr mitchell promoting terror and civil unrest ?
new rape kit can help montana law enforcementby montana news movie review : a good day to die hardby montana news billings police connected simon jacobson to 10 robberies including the murder of dejaun lasterby montana news helful linksvoter registration informationvoter registration faqsvoting in arkansasare you registered ?
find out ! arkansas election informationvotenaturally.org sunny and dry , but a rather blustery day tue nov 19 , 2013 09 : 15 am est man found dead on tarmac at logan international airport mon dec 30 , 2013 9 : 15 pm est dad of tsarnaev friend killed in fla. writes obama mon dec 30 , 2013 7 : 15 pm est man killed on logan tarmac mon dec 30 , 2013 9 : 15 pm est dcf promoted staffer weeks before firing in missing fitchburg boy case mon dec 30 , 2013 7 : 15 pm est dcf fires third staffer , demotes another , in missing fitchburg boy case mon dec 30 , 2013 3 : 15 pm est the case against dzhokhar tsarnaev mon dec 30 , 2013 09 : 15 am est kalman : a lot at stake for bruins defenseman kevan miller mon dec 30 , 2013 9 : 15 pm est man receives liver transplant at mgh on christmas mon dec 30 , 2013 7 : 15 pm est six families displaced by fire in dorchester mon dec 30 , 2013 7 : 15 pm est middleboro man held on $ 250,000 bail in christmas day brawl , stabbing mon dec 30 , 2013 7 : 15 pm est tim tebow joins sec network , still pursuing nfl mon dec 30 , 2013 7 : 15 pm est vegas ’ new year ’ s eve about big names , big bashes mon dec 30 , 2013 5 : 15 pm est press conference scheduled on missing fitchburg boy mon dec 30 , 2013 3 : 15 pm est are forever stamps the next hot investment ?
mon dec 30 , 2013 11 : 15 am est house , senate pass heather ’ s law mon dec 30 , 2013 5 : 15 pm est demoulas , blanchet lead in the sun ’ s persons of the year balloting mon dec 30 , 2013 1 : 15 pm est bail stays at $ 3m for man charged in wife ’ s death mon dec 30 , 2013 09 : 15 am est flu season in full swing -- have you had your shot ?
mon dec 30 , 2013 09 : 15 am est ag : countrywide to pay $ 17.3m in settlement mon dec 30 , 2013 3 : 15 pm est fewer held in new england for deportation mon dec 30 , 2013 1 : 15 pm est coakley : countrywide to pay $ 17.3m in settlement mon dec 30 , 2013 3 : 15 pm est new city council set to be sworn in new year ’ s day mon dec 30 , 2013 03 : 15 am est checking in with a few old friends at years end mon dec 30 , 2013 7 : 15 pm est yellow cab , united way of pioneer valley to offer free cab rides for impaired new year ’ s partiers mon dec 30 , 2013 9 : 15 pm est waltham ’ s gann academy announces new trustees mon dec 30 , 2013 5 : 15 pm est editorial : waltham ’ s 2013 the good , the bad and the ugly mon dec 30 , 2013 11 : 15 am est independent advisor richard burridge sees lots to like in japan .
why he allocates as much as 15 % of his equities portfolios to the country .
“ with the housing market picking up again , ” said ray rasker , a wildfire expert at headwaters economics , a nonpartisan montana-based think tank , “ we ’ re going to see more people building in the fire zones , and the u.s. taxpayers are going to pay for it . ”
burton of the university of colorado doesn ’ t mince words when he talks about responsibility in the wui .
when wildfires threaten homes but not lives , he says a firefighting crew ’ s best option is simple : “ just let it burn . ”
ilala plans to collect its revenue through banks na devota mwachang 'a the plan , which was earlier initiated by the imc in may 2011 , failed for reasons yet to be known .
according to him , his counterparts in kinondoni and temeke succeeded in collecting revenue this way because they enforced the use of banks .
he explained : & ldquo ; we still lag behind because all collections are made at the imc cashiers ’ counters . & rdquo ; samjela said the dcc has failed to operate the damp , and it has to be handed over to the government for securing enough funds .
judge rules in favor of ice agents suing obamaby jim kouri billings police question two women on the southsideby montana news dejaun laster 's girlfriend alissa l. may be allegedly involved with setting up dejaun laster to be robbedby montana news 16.why saudi and the us don & # 8217 ; t see eye to eye in the middle east 30.garvan walshe : if putin overreacts to the volograd bombings , his regime could ...
homehomehot topics ( 1 new ) current affairsworld newsbusiness & # 38 ; financeindustry sectorstechnologysciencesportlifestyleentertainment & # 38 ; artsworld newsworld newseuropenorth americalatin americacaribbeanasiaafricamiddle eastsouth pacificeuropeeuropewesternnortherneasterneastern europeeastern europebelarusbulgariaczech republicgeorgiahungarymoldovapolandromaniarussiaslovakiaukrainerussiaeconomypoliticselectionscorruptionsportchechnyaanti-government protestsnorth caucasus unrest please click here to try again.privacy policy | customer centerlive helpminimizecloseneed assistance ?
detroit 's abandoned ruins are captivating , but are they bad for neighborhoods ?
a lot of us are guilty of it .
especially those of us with teens , or tweens , or kids of any age who watch kid-centric television shows or who spend a lot of time on instagram .
here are the things you need to stop saying if you are over the age of 30 .
or if you have a mortgage , or a job that comes with benefits .
or if you have teens .
especially , if you have teens .
4 .
cray ( or cray-cray ) .
crazy just sounds better .
or one of the ten million synonyms for crazy .
i like a good " crazier than a shithouse rat " but i can 't say that when i 'm surrounded by preschoolers .
so i oftentimes use " whackadoo . "
when i hear you say " cray " i think you were going to talk about crayola crayons and had a brain freeze or else robert cray , who happens to be a pretty badass blues guitarist .
a rescue worker inspects the wreckage of the passenger plane .
concession of the bishop of cheyenne to the conventual franciscans , 1911 top storiesnews near youindiaworldbusinesstechnologyentertainmentsportssciencehealthmore top storiesspotlighttop storiesnews near youindiaworldbusinesstechnologyentertainmentsportssciencehealthmore top storiesspotlightsearch this story the metro line from palma to the balearic islands university derailed at son sardina station due to an electrical fault .
the service had to be interrupted for two hours but the 20 people who were travelling on the metro at the time were not injured .
they were evacuated for safety & # 8230 ; “ deadly workplaces : wyoming takes courtesy approach to curbing workplace deaths ” — wyofile “ cruel and unusual ?
death row inmate challenges state execution procedure ” — montgomery advertiser “ time running out to cut sales taxes , exemptions ” — the ( columbia , s.c. )
state this is the barbaric man forever demanding respect for him , but never respecting others ?
despicable and disrespectful namecalling is fine , as long as the sultan does the namecalling .
biggest turkish hypocrite by far !
so he sent his personal guards to search the house of a woman that protested in her ...
gov 't backtracks on law amendment for re-trial of army officers chp deputy chairman : corruption cannot be absolved at ballot box why a woman who waved a shoebox was taken into custody for more information on the revised translations , see the usccb 's committee ondivine liturgywebsite.looking for diocese of duluth 's own resources for implementing the roman missal , third edition ?
click on " praying the mass anew " on the left .
statistics on commuting get a lot more interesting at the state level .
see stateline interactive : commute times and methods by state how do you get to work each day and how long does it take ?
at the state level : in 2008 , new yorkers had the longest average commutes in the country at 31.6 minutes , while north dakotans enjoyed the shortest average commutes at 16 minutes .
beninburkina fasocamerooncape verdechadcote d 'ivoiregabongambiaghanaequatorial guineaguineaguinea-bissauliberiamalimauritanianigernigeriasao tome and principesenegalsierra leonetogowestern sahara homehomehot topics ( 1 new ) current affairsworld newsbusiness & # 38 ; financeindustry sectorstechnologysciencesportlifestyleentertainment & # 38 ; artsworld newsworld newseuropenorth americalatin americacaribbeanasiaafricamiddle eastsouth pacificcaribbeancaribbeanbahamasbarbadoscubadominican republichaitijamaicapuerto ricojamaicasport follow @ city _ tv on twitter during nye to find out how you could win a trip for 2 courtesy of itravel2000 site map the catholic mirror : : diocese of des moines meniscus surgery may not provide additional reliefdailyrx - by natalie san luisresearchers find knee surgeries unnecessarycounsel & healsee all 16 sourcesrelated surgery oneindiasee realtime coveragenewborn baby dies due to overheated warmeroneindia4 hours agowritten bypallavi senguptameerut , jan 1 : a newborn baby was allegedly burnt to death due to an overheated incubator where he was kept .
the incident happened in lala lajpat rai hospital in meerut.baby burns to death in meerut hospitaltimes now.tvoverheated baby warmer kills infant in meeruttimes of indiasee all 9 sourcesrelated : meerut pm at mullanpur , traffic halts in cityindian expressnational cancer centre to be set up : manmohanthe hindusee all 37 sourcesrelated cancer dengue kills civic doctor , mumbai toll 12 this yeartimes of indiasurveillance doctor at nair dies of denguefree press journalsee realtime coveragesee all 5 sourcesrelated dengue fever lentils added in diet reduces high blood pressureauthint maillentils may be key to beating high blood pressurefree press journalsee all 15 sourcesrelated lentils bacteria dodging antibiotics ?
not any moredaily news & analysishow superbugs become resistant to antibioticstruthdivesee all 39 sourcesrelated antibiotics weekend drinking damages dna of young adultsredorbitweekend binge not good for your dnahindustan timesin-depth : alcohol leaves its mark on youngsters ' dnabusiness standardsee all 33 sourcesrelated alcoholic beverages map2 ] [ hongkong bus timetables ] [ hongkong bus itinery ] [ hongkongairport bus ] [ hongkong disneyland timetable ] [ guangzhou maps ] [ guangzhou mtr ] [ guangzhou hotels ] [ guangzhou airport ] [ train enter hk visa ] of privacy and our company will act accordingly .
see faqspattaya condo investment scam leaves investors broke in pattaya single minded tourists and ex pat haven boasting some 1600 bars .
it is situated on a 4 km stretch of road along the sea & along the north end are around 96 formally a us military rest stop and recreation from the 60s and 70s it saw a even the nice looking painted artist impression above , one cannot resist the temptation to get in first and buy a condo right on the pattaya beach .
great stories etc .
well it seems theres no condo complex called the royal view talay condominium and the beach remains the same .
did ian turn to embezzling investors ? ?
he owned air king but all these companies have folded we understand and ian is back again enjoying the free money or should we say everyone elses money .
why he did it---well business in thailand is hard and many foreigners who have tried to make it don 't and his pattaya info paper was no match to peter mulhotras pattaya mail or even neils pattaya people .
with no money they trun to the easy way---get it off gullible foreigners who are dumb enough to not check on what they spend in thailand .
as at 2013 is he involved in the www.pattayainfo.com & is he really back in business in pattaya ? ? we know he is in new condo developments .
1 / .
never buy off a plan .
an artists impression is just that ? its not even built .
it does not have sufficient cash to complete without foreigner funds ? no penalty clauses in favour of the buyer if its not finished & no refund 2 / .
is the land really owned by the company--check chanote [ title ] .as those who invested with one richard haughton of harlequin in pattaya --thailand property and media exhibition company ltd . , found out their titles were sold to kasikornbank by haughton to borrow off & they now have no condos nor comeback ? 6 / .
if you give a deposit don 't expect anything back .
do not use paypal , ask for a contract first then get it checked out but please don 't buy off a plan--more and more condos fails as they do not have the cash flow to even start let alopne finish .
pattaya mail that great mag of peter " the indian media mogul " - moulhotra has had his work cut out over the years with the many mags that have circulated in pattaya , but has stood his ground and is still here .
peter is a businessman and a nice guy that knows pattaya inside out and has survived the competition from all sectors . ( which is also regularly available all over thailand & he has also a chiangmai mail ) .
peter being a success as he is has weathered every storm and watches the rest slowly retreat as its not easy publishing in thailand even with the likes of the famous drew noyes the american conman whose pattaya times has shrunk to low lows due to his many foreigner ripoff exploits as portrayed by andrew drummond--the reknown uk crimes & scam reporter .
in fact pattaya mail is the most successful paper to read in pattaya as at 2013 .
ian on the other hand always said his publication pattaya info was multi-language to appeal to many nationalities , and is more of a guide to things thai , with helpful hints , and local news but in fact did not have substance and how he made money beats us hence his turn to being a bigtime property development investment sensation-- ? ? ? .
well , wouldn 't you if the chips are down , you can 't leave the goodlife as youre too old to get a job back in stateside and you read how property developers can get away with it ?
one also needs to boost the bank account to survive the pattaya off season storm and the added expenses like the work permit , visa , taxes living costs and company fees .
was ian up for tax for the magazine & did he have the funds to survive the pattaya highlife rush ? ? ? that he decided to try his hand at property development or was it some other hand telling him to do it .
richard ian silver did disappear with all the money : some say its 20m while others say its 120 m baht so who is right ? ? ? ? some say he 's just taken a vacation & is back in business behind the scenes as at 2013 ?
but why he did it only ian can answer as he 's not a bad sort of guy . not many of the investors have come forward but we would sure like to hear from you fellas so don 't be shy .
maybe ian will read this and feel sorry for you but of course its hard to face the music when one can hide behind a legit thai company--easy to do for the upsuspecting foreigner wanting to buy a condo thats not even built , then scratching his head on how to get his money back .
but we hear he is living the good life some place near the sea and conducting business as usual---yes you got it selling more soon to be started condos in bang saray & jomtien .
we will update you soon april 2013 .
solutions ] [ security protection ] [ security & intelligence reports ] [ pedophilia mp calls to up monthly grant for kuwaiti students in uk & # 38 ; ireland homehomehot topics ( 1 new ) current affairsworld newsbusiness & # 38 ; financeindustry sectorstechnologysciencesportlifestyleentertainment & # 38 ; artsworld newsworld newseuropenorth americalatin americacaribbeanasiaafricamiddle eastsouth pacificmiddle eastmiddle eastpersian gulf statesbahrainiraniraqisraeljordankuwaitlebanonomanpalestineqatarsaudi arabiasyriaunited arab emiratesyemenkuwaitoilsport online issueashley tribune homeletter to the editorstory ideascontact usashley mapcity of ashleyashley public schooltony bender home pagedillinger home page a young sitatunga runs through its enclosure at a zoo in berlin .
the swamp-dwelling antelopes are found in the wild throughout central africa .
an orangutan named maomao reaches out to a passenger on a bus traveling to yunnan wildlife park in kunming , china .
a chimpanzee walks around its enclosure at a zoo in hanover , germany .
the enclosure was built after five chimps escaped from the old one a year ago .
stray kittens huddle in the bushes outside seek careers and staffing in west bend , wis .
the kittens were adopted by the end of the day .
a stag roars in its enclosure at wildpark eekholt in grossenaspe , germany .
at home in russia , at home on the prairie ( 2012 ) on the road , at daily mass in parishes and at her team ’ s first stop .
it was at a seattle abortion to the ngc , who has been labelling we as a minority that african and amerindian was my ancestry by the ngc until uncles van sertima and theodore aranda set me free and to top that off we even taught the europeans to bath i do not have to boast but this is unacceptable to most folks but then again we would not want him to get a stroke our favourite dance they call it the punta weh wi wine up so thanks uncles theordore aranda , ivan van sertima , mrs aranda for the natural hair show and the tribute to the garingu doctorsreads : 3532 pique stresses importance of messi as argentinean star prepares to return to action homehomehot topics ( 1 new ) current affairsworld newsbusiness & # 38 ; financeindustry sectorstechnologysciencesportlifestyleentertainment & # 38 ; artsworld newsworld newseuropenorth americalatin americacaribbeanasiaafricamiddle eastsouth pacificeuropeeuropewesternnortherneasternwestern europewestern europealbaniaaustriabelgiumcroatiacyprusfrancegermanygibraltargreeceitalykosovomacedoniamaltamontenegronetherlandsportugalrepublic of irelandserbiasloveniaspainswitzerlandunited kingdombalkansspaineconomypoliticssport new look for altea in the new yeareuro weekly news 14 : 08 31-dec-13 epublished by pressmart [ digital magazine publishing ] bolivia crude oil consumption by year ( thousand barrels per day ) iraq war veteran with ptsd becomes the first person to buy weed legally in ... buzzfeediraq war vet is the first person to buy pot legally in coloradohuffington postsee all 977 sourcesrelated cannabis calculus rhapsody by phil kirk & mike gospel is this x defined ?
is f continuous ?
how do you find out ?
you can use the limit process .
approach from both sides ...
the golden ratio is a fascinating number , but how much of what you read ( or believe ) is true — and what are the common myths ?
join us as stanford mathematician ...
how to do calculus ( def of a derivative ) from the projects lecture series : calculus : the big deal — is it a big deal ? with dr. keith devlin the course " introduction to mathematical thinking " by executive director of stanford unive ...
his recent research work has focused on the development of new tools and protocols to assist intelligence analysis and the development and use of videogames in mathematics education .
" the huffington post " is a registered trademark of thehuffingtonpost.com , inc .
all rights reserved.goloading ... > > view all results for " " enter multiple symbols separated by commaslondon quotes now availablego " investors are starved for growth , " explains buzzfeed president and coo jon steinberg , in discussing investment action in new media-related stocks .
wednesday was the second highest-grossing christmas day on record for the u.s. and canadian box office .
on a busy pre-christmas weekend , " the hobbit : the desolation of smaug " held off a very different sequel , " anchorman 2 : the legend continues . "
the creator behind the hit tv series " the walking dead " is suing the cable network amc claiming that he was cheated out of profits .
newseconomyfinancehealth carereal estateretailwealthautosearningsenergymediapoliticscommentaryspecial reportsasiaeuropemarketspre-marketsu.s.asiaeuropestockscommoditiescurrenciesbondsfundsetfsinvestingfinancial advisorspersonal financecnbc explainsportfoliowatchliststock screenerfund screenertechmobilesocial mediaenterprisegamingcybersecuritysmall businessfranchisingfinancingmanagementvideolatest videodigital workshopu.s. videoasia videoeurope videoceo interviewsanalyst interviewsfull episodesclosed captioningshowswatch livecnbc u.s.cnbc asia-pacificcnbc europecnbc worldfull episodescnbcabout cnbcsite mapvideo reprintsadvertisecareershelpcontactprivacy policyterms of serviceindependent programming reportlatest news releasesrsscertain market data provided by thomson reutersdata also provided bydata is a real-time snapshot * data is delayed at least 15 minutesglobal business and financial news , stock quotes , and market data and analysis © 2014 cnbc llc . all rights reserved.a division of nbcuniversalgolden triangle news > shelby promoter > front whats next for xray-fm , portland ’ s new progressive radio station mon dec 30 , 2013 6 : 24 pm est no drone zone for oregon as faa bypasses state mon dec 30 , 2013 6 : 24 pm est osu spinoff inpria lands $ 4.6m mon dec 30 , 2013 6 : 24 pm est avatron aims to deliver privacy and security in a post-cloud world mon dec 30 , 2013 6 : 24 pm est police : man caught with marijuana and hashish in west linn mon dec 30 , 2013 4 : 24 pm est portland rolls out the new year ’ s eve welcome mat mon dec 30 , 2013 8 : 24 pm est home electricity use in us falling to 2001 levels mon dec 30 , 2013 2 : 24 pm est tardy fine slapped on late parents fri oct 23 , 2009 12 : 24 pm edt sinking section of eastbank esplanade closed for repairs mon nov 9 , 2009 4 : 24 pm est free salem towing through new year ’ s day mon dec 30 , 2013 10 : 24 pm est active-shooter training in beaverton mon dec 30 , 2013 10 : 24 pm est ice cream delivery ploy to uber car plan mon dec 30 , 2013 8 : 24 pm est viet vet gives flag to mom of afghan vet mon dec 30 , 2013 4 : 24 pm est ’ she said her friends went off cliff ’ mon dec 30 , 2013 4 : 24 pm est attorneys : subscribe to the intermountain commercial and receive one free copy of the utah professionals contact us | irin | africa | west africa | cote d 'ivoire online abonelike-gazetehoşgeldi̇n 201401 ocak 2014 çarşambaanasayfaekonomifinansdış haberlerpolitikatoplumsektörlerkategori̇lerfinansne , nerede , ne zamangündembi̇k i̇lanlarıdünya ihtdış i̇lişkileremtiai̇şletme-yönetimmevzuatnews in englishgüncelyorum i̇ncelemebölgelerdenözel dosyalarresmi gazetetiger monitorbankacılık sektörübilişimdemir-çelik sektörüenerji sektörügıda sektörühaberleşme sektörühizmetleri̇nşaat sektörükimya-petrokimya sektörümadencilik sektörümağazacılık-perakendecilik sektörümedya sektörüotomotiv sektörüplastik-kauçuk sektörüsanayisavunma sanayiisigortacılık sektörütarım ve hayvancılıktaşımacılık sektörütekstil sektörüturizm sektörü17 : 48 - putinden , gül ve erdoğana yeni yıl mesajı17 : 32 - yılın yazar , fikir insanı ve sanatçıları açıklandı17 : 29 - filistinin prag büyükelçisi hayatını kaybetti17 : 24 - bulgaristanda asgari ücret 340 leva oldu17 : 22 - türkiye , avrupa ’ nın 11. zengini ! 17 : 16 - kuzu paralel devlet twitlerine açıklama getirdi17 : 15 - ötv artışı sektörü kötü etkileyecek16 : 38 - sayıştay tcdd raporu : gerekirse soruşturulsun16 : 03 - resmi burslu öğrencilere yeni yıl sürprizi15 : 54 - fakıbabadan türgeve 3 milyon liralık arsayorum i̇ncelemefinansal tabloların bağımsız denetim için hazırlanmasında meslek personelinin niteliklerii̇ş sağlığı ve güvenliği hizmetlerinde devlet desteğilüks otomobil ithalatında yaşanan sorunlaryeşil hatkamusal sermayeli şirketlerin yönetim kurulu üyelerigirişim sermayelerinde ( private equity ) çıkış stratejileri ve kurumsal risk yönetim süreciaraştırma ve yenilik programları için kritik faaliyetlersayıştay raporları tartışmasında sorunun özüpersonele verilen ticket vb. yemek kartlarının kdv ’ sinin ne kadarı indirilir , ne kadarı indirilemez ? mobilya sektörünün hedefleri için güçlü iç pazar gerekhaciz ve ihtiyati hacizde mükellef lehine mahkeme kararları 30 gün içinde uygulanacakdolaylı vergi oranları neden % 2,6 arttı ? kurumsallaş ( a ) mamai̇hale işlemlerinde , idarelere başvuru hakkı nasıl kullanılmalıdır ? bireysel emeklilik sistemi , sadece bireysel mi ? 12345678sonraki sayfa son eklenen galeriler2013 ’ in yerli süper yatlarıi̇şte dünyanın en pahalı otomobilleriyeni yılın zamlı vergi ve harçlarıhoşgeldin 2014 son eklenen videolarturyap 'ın yatırımları ve faaliyetlerisigorta acenteliği seçimleri5.haftanın değerlendirilmesiekonomi17 : 22 - türkiye , avrupa ’ nın 11. zengini ! 17 : 15 - " ötv artışı sektörü kötü etkileyecek " 15 : 07 - kredi kartı düzenlemesi tüketiciyi paniğe soktu14 : 18 - boydak : hükümetin bakışını işadamına çevirmesini istiyoruz14 : 01 - bireysel emekliliğe katılım yüzde 30 arttı14 : 00 - bddk 'nın 5 yönetmeliği yürürlüğe girdi13 : 46 - yabancı marmaray kadar harcama yaptı13 : 35 - i̇stanbul ’ da yıllık enflasyon yüzde 7.9813 : 32 - hurda araçlardan 58 milyon lira katkı13 : 16 - elektrikte tarife bedelleri netleşti13 : 11 - tüketiciyi aldatana zamlı tarife13 : 06 - tüketimi kısma önlemleri devam ediyor13 : 05 - memurun gözü aralık enflasyonunda13 : 00 - gai̇b ihracatta en yüksek değerine ulaştı12 : 00 - asgari ücrete yüzde 5 + 6 zam yapıldıpolitika17 : 16 - kuzu ' paralel devlet ' twitlerine açıklama getirdi16 : 38 - sayıştay tcdd raporu : gerekirse soruşturulsun15 : 54 - fakıbaba 'dan türgev 'e 3 milyon liralık arsa15 : 43 - bu yıl orta gelirli için kemer sıkma yılı olacak15 : 14 - adalet bakanlığı 'nda yeni isim10 : 40 - i̇çişleri bakanı ala yemin edecek10 : 36 - erdoğan 'dan yılın ilk yurtdışı ziyareti22 : 42 - sağlık bakanlığı 'na 10 bin personel kadrosu21 : 53 - " amacımız türkiye 'yi en üst seviyeye taşımak " 18 : 31 - " bor madenini özelleştirmeyeceğiz " 16 : 07 - liderlerin yeni yıl mesajları15 : 42 - ' halk bankası 'nı tercih ederiz ' 14 : 43 - ' gezi parkı ' raporu tamamlandı14 : 20 - meb özel okul hedefini tutturdu14 : 02 - yeni yılda yeni yardım kampanyasıdış haberler17 : 48 - putin 'den , gül ve erdoğan 'a yeni yıl mesajı17 : 29 - filistin 'in prag büyükelçisi hayatını kaybetti17 : 24 - bulgaristan 'da asgari ücret 340 leva oldu15 : 30 - irak 'ta bu kez askerle aşiret çatıştı13 : 45 - letonya yeni yılda euro bölgesi 'ne resmen girdi13 : 33 - i̇ngiltere 'den i̇skoçya 'ya ' ayrılmayın ' mesajı10 : 46 - mısır , referandumu danıştay 'a taşıdı10 : 35 - abd , güney sudan için kaygı duyuyor10 : 15 - yunanistan ab dönem başkanlığı 'nı devraldı23 : 45 - abd 'de 40 bin yeni kanun yürürlüğe giriyor22 : 07 - kazakistan yeni yıla havai fişeklerle girdi16 : 38 - etiyopya 'da gazeteciye hapis cezası15 : 00 - 2 ülke 2014'e ' merhaba ' dedi14 : 57 - hannover 96 tayfun korkut ile anlaştı14 : 36 - sosyal yardımlardan faydalanmaları zorlaştırılıyor dünya onlinedünya grubu hakkındaonline künyedünya gazetesi künyesiabonelikalışverişrssreklami̇letişimdiğer sitelerimizkobiden.comdunyastore.compcworld.com.trcomputerworld.com.trbyte.com.trdunyagida.com.trdunyainsaat.com.trdünya ekonomi tv in this lesson , i show you how to solve for " x " using multiplication and division .
introducción al álgebra .
principios básicos del álgebra con ejemplos .
hecho por academiavasquez .
want to join the machinima affiliate program ?
fill out an application here : this video accidentally turned out kind of sad , me so sowwy it not posed to be sad who wants hugs and cookies ?
also , fyi for anyone attempting this , it takes deceptively longer to do than you would think , like wtf i got some markers and sat down to draw my life but wtf is life mate . know what i mean ?
then i looked at marbles and he was all like , meh not now mom i 've got the derp tongue hanging out of my mouth and then i looked at kermit and he was all wahhh can you turn on my electric blanket because i 'm freezing cold and i 'm also a spoiled baby brat child and need you to love me every second of every day also do you have some chicken because i 'm hungry ?
and then i looked at jerome who was just standing there like the rasta banana monkey that he is judging everyone and felt weird for a second but then remembered how he has a hole in his armpit from people getting too excited about the fact that he 's a giant rasta banana monkey and manhandling his body so the little like white styrofoam pellet things that he is filled with ( and subsequently make him noisy and not that squishy to hug , more like an old over stuffed bean bag that isn 't any fun to sit on and is just there because your parents are like , " we 're not throwing this out because we bought it for you for christmas you fucking asked for it now sit in it " and so you do but you 're like ehhhh i 'd rather sit on the floor this is making me feel weird and also itchy ) are falling out and i need to sew him up before he makes a giant mess in my house even though he already has somewhat , i guess that 's the price you pay for having a carnival toy that lives in the corner of your living room , he brings you joy and pain all at the same time . ah , life , just like the great will smith says , sometimes i wonder , what you gon be ?
a doctor a general maybe a mc ha i wanna kiss you all the time . exactly will , exactly . it smells like farts in here kermit seriously ?
come on bro , your butt though , it 's so stinky . i love you . hey want to hug and make out ?
some of us want to hug and make out , take one for the team . see you at lunch then . i 'll take 6 gerbils please . arts and crafts time makes for peepee .
this video was directed by mat whitecross in 2011 and was filmed in south africa and london get demi 's new single " heart attack " on itunes - http : / / smarturl.it / dlituness3 introducción al álgebra .
principios básicos del álgebra con ejemplos .
hecho por academiava ...
introducción al álgebra , expresiones algebraicas y partes de un monomio evaluating the cowboys : who exceeded or met expectations or needs improvement ? " — " denotes a recording that did not chart or was not released in that territory .
b ^ " same love " did not enter the billboard hot 100 , but peaked at number 25 on the bubbling under hot 100 singles chart , which acts as an extension to the hot 100 . [ 28 ] why can 't you just forget about algebra it 's all about you now and all your talk of logic and formula could never help you now not anymorecause you were always on the run from the darkness in your heart so you wear it on the outside of your chesti have taken the liberty to tell your ghost to go bribing them with sunlight and sympathy they promised not to show for a whilecause you were always the little boy who couldn 't keep it to yourself so your heart is on the outside of your chestat the speed of light you moved inside my home nothing is alright if you are still aloneand your heart is greater than the sum of you and everyone why can 't you just forget about algebrait 's all about you nowand all your talk of logic and formulacould never help you nownot anymore 'cause you were alwayson the runfrom the darknessin your heartso you wear iton the outsideof your chesti have taken the libertyto tell your ghosts to gobrighten with sunlight and simpathythey promise not to showfor a while 'cause you were alwaysthe little boywho couldn 't keep itto yourselfso your heartis on the outsideof your chestat the speed of loveyou moved inside my homeand nothing is alrightif you are still aloneand your heartis waiting thatthe sound of you and everyoneis still you 're always on the wrongfrom the poison in your loveand your heartis on the outside why can 't you justforget about algebrait 's all about you nowand all your talkof logic and formulacould never help you nownot anymorecause you were alwayson the runfrom the darknessin your heartso you wear iton the outsideof your chesti have takenthe libertyto tell your ghost to gobribing them withsunlight and sympathythey promised not to showfor a whilecause you were alwaysthe little boywho couldn 't keep itto yourselfso your heartis on the outsideof your chestat the speed of lightyou moved inside my homenothing is alrightif you are still aloneand your heartis greater thanthe sum of youand everyonebut still you 're alwayson the runfrom the poisonin your lungsand your heartis on the outside kept back by the deeper rumblin 's in my breastbad vibes puttin ' mad pressure on my chestfly time is a rhythm clockin ' exocetmad lines from a stranger you 've already mettribal is the plate i 'm eatin ' from , you guessedi 'm full yet i cannot fit inside my vest 'where 's he at ?
is the question i refuse to gethere i 'm at , right here , in your headphone set , ahyou 'll try to diss take a crack at this not algebra or calculusyou 'll try to diss take a crack at this not algebra or calculusso we 'll take a crack at this nowtwo truths make a lie , first you die then flycross the sky jambalaya with your chocolate piesuck it deep , don 't let it interrupt your sleepyou 'll get fleas and disease when you 're countin ' your sheepif you please , don 't please ' em run ' em off the ranchlet them grow like leaves then rip ' em off the branchfly time is a rhythm clockin ' do-si-dob-boys rocking with the freak-freak , so now you knowyou 'll try to diss take a crack at this not algebra or calculusyou 'll try to diss take a crack at this not algebra or calculusso we 'll take a crack at this nowit 's the p h a r m a k o nthe remedy , yes the cure from the poisonous penc o m m u n i c a t i o nwhat you 'll find inside my rhyme is enemy and friendgoing n to the e the b the u.l.a.burning all the competition with the rhymes that i sayh the double o the l the i the g.a.nnow the soul is what will signify the hooliganyou 'll try to diss take a crack at this not algebra or calculusyou 'll try to diss take a crack at this not algebra or calculusyou 'll try to diss take a crack at this not algebra or calculusyou 'll try to diss take a crack at this not algebra or calculuswe 'll take a crack at this nowyou 'll try to diss take a crack at this not algebra or calculusyou 'll try to diss take a crack at this not algebra or calculus ooohgot me day dreamin thinkin bout rings andgot me day dreamin ... aaahhhgot me day dreamin thinking bout rings andgot me day dreamin ... [ verse 1 : ] here i go waking up yawning 6 in the morningwith you on my mindi 'm laying in bed scarf still on my headbarely got the cold out my eyesreflecting ... bout the conversation we had last nightand i 'm reminded of whyi do the things i do just for you , for youi don 't have to think twice [ chorus : ] i do it cause he real with mei do cause he still with mei do cause i shouldi do cause your good for me , good for mei do it cause i trust ( ya ) i do it cause i mustand i 'm doin it for usi do it cause i 'm grateful ... willing and ablei do it for you cause you do it for me [ verse 2 : ] got me day dreamin 'thinking bout things and switchin up my whole life stylei call you on the phone on my way hometreating you is on my mindi 'll be cutting up greens , makin pinto beansi know you like rice and gravybe at my door before eight you bring the cakebabe tonight will be fine ... [ chorus ] [ bridge : ] u make it so easy for meand i wanna do the same for youu are simply perfect for meand i must say sincerelyeverything i do , i do it for you [ chorus x2 ] ooohgot me day dreamin thinkin bout rings andgot me day dreamin ... aaahhhgot me day dreamin thinkin bout rings andgot me daydreamin ...
aye dj ! .take me back one timesee i live u breathe ulove ya need ucouldn 't see u loving anyone but mebut baby baby cant u seethat u are the song i singand i would never hurt u game utry to play u love the way umade me ur everythingbut baby baby cant u seeit aint the way it use to be nawits like iive given all i gotjumping all u hurdlesand getting nothing backand u never used to saylet me call u right backnow when i call ur phonei gotta leave a message at the tonei love endlesslysaid im playing for keepsbut i need u to meet me halfwayevery promise i madesaid my love wouldn 't changeso i need u to meet me halfwayyou see my mama told me loves a lonelyroad so onlywalk it when u know its truei thought i found a path in youbut im on an empty avenuenow when i guess what she said thinking u caredbaby i swear its like its somebody newso let me know what i should docuz right now im so confusedits like iive given all i gotjumping all u hurdlesand getting nothing backand u never used to saylet me call u right backnow when i call ur phonei gotta leave a message at the tonei love endlesslysaid im playing for keepsbut i need u to meet me halfwayevery promise i madesaid my love wouldn 't changeso i need u to meet me halfwayaye dj , i love endlesslysaid im playing for keepsbut i need u to meet me halfwayevery promise i madesaid my love wouldn 't changeso i need u to meet me halfwayits like iive given all i gotjumping all u hurdlesand getting nothing backand u never used to saylet me call u right backnow when i call ur phonei gotta leave a message at the tonei love endlesslysaid im playing for keepsbut i need u to meet me halfwayevery promise i madesaid my love wouldn 't changeso i need u to meet me halfwayaye dj , and i thought we had something realso let me know what it is cuzi gave all i could giveand u left me guessingand i thoughtwe had something true but i aintget no love from ulet me know what i should docuz i cant keep guessingits like iive given all i gotjumping all u hurdlesand getting nothing backand u never used to saylet me call u right backnow when i call ur phonei gotta leave a message at the tonei love endlesslysaid im playing for keepsbut i need u to meet me halfwayevery promise i madesaid my love wouldn 't change sometimes i see youyou r so happy when i 'm aroundthen you change yo mind and look at melike i let you downyou used to return phone callsvisited me oftensomething 's changed its not the samei just don 't knownow i don 't understand youwhy you do the things you doi never knowbeen through this a time or twodon 't wanna feel like this no moreif i ask a questionyou ask the same questionwhy don 't you answerinstead of all this back and forthhere we go againboth of us pullin 'in different directionsin a game of tug of warwhy you keep fightin 'so hard to be right whenit doesn 't mattertell me what we fightin ' foryou bout to loose meand i 'm goin ' be lonely so why do we both keeppullin ' in this tug of warholdin ' on to youis like i 'm gambling my heartif i let goi will fallhardi 'll hurt myself oohnever forget wholet go of meand never said i 'm sorry boonow i don 't understand youwhy you do the things you doi never knowbeen through this a time or twodon 't wanna feel like this no moreif i ask a questionyou ask the same questionwhy don 't you answerinstead of all this back and forthhere we go againboth of us pullin 'in different directionsin a game of tug of warwhy you keep fightin 'so hard to be right whenit doesn 't mattertell me what we fightin ' foryou bout to loose meand i 'm gone be lonely so why do we both keeppullin ' in this tug of warlet 's hold on or move on togetherdo what it takes to make it betterif you keep one end i will give inor we let go then we both winif i ask a questionyou ask the same questionwhy don 't you answerinstead of all this back and forthhere we go againboth of us pullin 'in different directionsin a game of tug of warwhy you keep fightin 'so hard to be right whenit doesn 't mattertell me what we fightin ' foryou bout to loose meand i 'm gone be lonely so why do we both keep this song 's about a frienda friend i 've known since i was a childhe and i would talk about our livesand what we thought love was all abouthe was my boyi love that boy to death andeven now not much has changedexcept for how i see him with my heartcause now my eyes don 't see the samebut he has no ideahow i feel insideso i go on with my foolish pridewalking awaythough deep insidei wanna staythis day i was preparedand so vulnerable as i could bebut when he stopped byi couldn 't even speakcause of what stood right in front of meto my suprisehe brought along someoneoh some random chick that he just metas usual i smiled and shook her handcovering up my heart againcuz he has no ideahow i feel insideso i go on with my foolish pridewalking awaythough deep insidei wanna staybut he has no ideahow i feel insideso i go on with my foolish prideso i go on all alone at nightso i go on living knowing it aint rightso i just let my heart continue to hideknowing my heart is so empty insidei know he should be here by my sidei should be holding him instead of my pillow tightbut my foolish pridemakes me walk awaythough deep insidei just wanna stayooohthough deep inside ( i got something to tell ) you we 've been friends for quite some time and now i see youdifferently there 's a cloudy picturethat 's becoming clearer to me i hesitate to tell you feelbecause i don 't want you to be afraid and i don 't want to make the mistake of being to shy to say.i think i love you and i don 't ever want to let you goi think i need you in ways that i am unable to showi think love you and i want everybody that we know to knowjust how you make me feel just how you make me feel.if you make it so frustrating because you 're so spoiled like meand it drives me insane when we agree to disagreewhen my words don 't move together to make much senseyou recite the perfect sentence to put my mind at ease .. see i think i love you i love you and i don 't ever want to let you goi think i need you in ways that i am unable to showi think i love you and i want everybody that we know to know just how you make me feeljust how you make me feel just how you make me feeltime and time again i 'm trying to convince to myself that what i feel it does make senseto me sometimes .
it 's difficult to me like when days are here to stay and you 're bringing me my smilebut when tomorrow comes around and somehow you let me down it 's confusingbaby you 're driving me crazyi think i love you i love you and i don 't ever want to let you goi think i need you in ways that i am unable to showi think i love you and i want everybody that we know too knowhow you make me feeljust you make me feeli think ) i think i love you and i want everybody to know i thinki think i think i need you in ways that i 'm unable to showi think i think i love you this is how you make how you make me feelhow you make how you make me feel oooohhhi think i think i love you baby i think i need you ohh those days were so comfortablenever had to worry muchnights at time would impersonalwondering where i wasbut my heart would follow anything relatablei know i let you downnever related you to painnow my need to please is so visible with my life in your handstry me againcome back don 't leave me this way [ repeat : x 2 ] give me one more chance to provewhy there 's no one that comes before youoh will you forgive me for what i 've donein the past i would not ask for nothing in return but your lovecome back don 't leave me this way [ repeat : x 2 ] i long for you sothat it seems like you never leftoh my sorrow makes me second guesshow i felt so if you left please comeback it 's funny how some things stay on your mindit 's funny how some moments hang in timei remember when we methow we became good friendsbut i don 't remember whenwhen you started to go astray , and for what reasonthat you finally went away ? why did you leave me ? if it were anyone elsei could cut all my tiesbut you 're a part of my lifeand it 's starting to feel likeeverywhere i go , i hear your nameand i play it off like things are the samepretending to know the reason whythat it 's not ... whoa ... what happened , baby ? what happened , honey ? to the way things used to be ? what happened , baby ? what happened , honey ? to the way things used to be ? every day i try to block you out my headi haven 't seen youi just don 't know what i saidwe used to spend timewe used to be fineyou had my heartnow we don 't even talklike we used tobaby , this is not what i 'm used totell me , where did it goi 'd give anything to knowthat it was not all in vainand there was a reasonthat you went awayeverywhere i go , i hear your nameand i play it off like things are the samepretending to know the reason whythat it 's not ... what happened , baby ? what happened , honey ? to the way things used to be ? what happened , baby ? what happened , honey ? to the way things used to be ? see , i triedover and over againto get some understandingso i can know where we 're standingso ... what happened , baby ? what happened , honey ? to the way things used to be ? what happened , baby ? what happened , honey ? to the way things used to be ? what happened , baby ? what happened , honey ? to the way things used to be ? what happened , baby ? what happened , honey ? to the way things used to be ? what happened to our love ?
at this time * in this place you are , are mineand at this moment in my life , you belong to me ... ohhhh weee ...
ohh , .i don 't think it 's wrongi can 't help iti ask my heartif she felt it ( i did ) i can only ask for so much ( please ) i will only settle for this touch ( right here ) my arms brag to each thought about how you feelfrom conversations i know what they feel is realthe past it didn 't lastthe present went too fastthe future so will be i wish that far i could see butat this time at this timein this place , you are mineand at this momentin my lifeyou belong to meoh to me ... forgive me if my hungry complex is what you eati pray that for moments you will only be consumed by meoften times we receive and then regreti haven 't had a reason yetthis is the time god meant for us to be ( night now ) this is the place he allowed us to me meet ( right here ) i may never get another chancei just hope you understand that at this timeat this timein this place , you are mineand at this momentin my lifeyou belong to meoh to me ... at this timeand in this placeyou are mineand this momentin my life you belong to meoh one more time ... sing itat this timeand in this placeyou are mineand this momentin my life you belong to mewho really cares what others may sayprobably missed a chance on feeling this wayabout love what i know is truegive em time and it can happen with them toothe deepest feeling that you 've ever knownthe greatest passion that 's ever been showna flame that flickers and never leaves you alonethe weirdest place oh yes i call it my homeat this timeand in this placeyou are mineand this moment boston red sox shortstop bogaerts makes aruba one happy nation no drones stationed in curacao or aruba , says us consulate aruba to host international conference on combating and preventing crime ( wkyc ) are you one of the millions who look to buy cheaper medications from online pharmacies ?
in one well-documented case , a counterfeit version of the cancer drug avastin was widely distributed in the u.s. last year .
used to treat cancers of the colon , lung , kidney and brain , the fake avastin did not contain any of the active ingredient .
homehomehot topics ( 1 new ) current affairsworld newsbusiness & # 38 ; financeindustry sectorstechnologysciencesportlifestyleentertainment & # 38 ; artsworld newsworld newseuropenorth americalatin americacaribbeanasiaafricamiddle eastsouth pacificnorth americanorth americacanadausamexicousabarack obamaeconomybank regulationhealthcare reformpolitics ( us ) politics blogs ( us ) is this a video i see in front of me ? the new york times 03 : 52 30-dec-13 secondsnetflix rose the most in the s & p 500 in 2013 | kob.com netflix rose the most in the s & p 500 in 2013 baltimore ready for fireworksabc2 newsbaltimore gets ready for 2014wbal radiosee all 260 sourcesrelated new year 's eve explosives experts defuse an unexploded device at the site of the bombing .
shqipevropaelire.orgعربیiraqhurr.orgհայերենazatutyun.amаварradioerkenli.comazərbaycancaazadliq.orgнохчийнradiomarsho.combih / hrv / srb / cgslobodnaevropa.orgбеларускаяsvaboda.orgدریda.azadiradio.orgქართულიradiotavisupleba.geenglishrferl.orgадыгэkhutynygharadio.comқазақazattyq.orgkыргызazattyk.orgмакедонскиmakdenes.orgپشتوافغانستانpa.azadiradio.orgپاکستانmashaalradio.orgفارسیradiofarda.comromâneșteeuropalibera.orgтоҷикӣozodi.orgтатарazatliq.orgturkmenazathabar.comукраїнськаradiosvoboda.orgўзбекчаozodlik.orgрусскийроссияsvoboda.orgказахстанrus.azattyq.orgарменияrus.azatutyun.amазербайджанradioazadlyg.orgгрузияekhokavkaza.comкиргизияrus.azattyk.orgтаджикистанrus.ozodi.org « ազատություն » ռադիոկայանը հեռարձակվում է 28 լեզուներով : մեր ծրագրերը հասանելի են տեղական ռադիոհաճախություններով , արբանյակային հեռարձակմամբ եւ ինտերնետով : հեռարձակումները ռադիո կամ արբանյակային ընդունիչով որսալու համար ծանոթացեք այս էջում ներկայացվող տեղեկատվությանը : ռադիոառավոտյան ծրագիրցերեկային ծրագիրերեկոյան ծրագիրհրմշտոց բողոքի ակցիայի ժամանակինչպես լսել fm հաճախությամբինչպես լսել արբանյակովլսել օնլայն press review “ we started the year [ 2013 ] as a wholehearted carrier of european values but ended up as the most ardent supporter of the [ russian-led ] customs union , ” “ chorrord inknishkhanutyun ” writes in a yearend commentary .
blog not so fast ...
armenia ’ s own parliament subverts the democratic process .
armenian , azeri leaders vow new push for karabakh peace presidents serzh sarkisian of armenia and ilham aliyev of azerbaijan pledged to reinvigorate the protracted search for a compromise solution to the nagorno-karabakh conflict during face-to-face talks held in vienna on tuesday .
following approvals in the us and europe this month of a new drug to treat hepatitis c , activists are pushing for the medication to be made available in poor countries .
food and nutrition crisis in niger and the western sahelseparated somali childrenstruggling with the legacy of droughta decent burial - somalis yearn for justicesurviving disastersomali national peace conference the only way to grasp the impact of the nsa surveillance program is to see it as a wholesale repeal of the fourth amendment .
the only way to grasp the impact of the nsa surveillance program is to see it as a wholesale repeal of the fourth amendment. the dictator 's death , khalid decided to leave the country and got on a ship in the port of tripoli bound for italy .
all he had with him was a dagger , a special gift from his grandfather , a photograph of him with his after an odyssey of three weeks , " i arrived a few hours ago on this after he got to rome , the boy was forced to grow up before his time because he was an illegal immigrant .
in the italian capital , he learnt to deal with the of volunteers , especially that of nuns who cared for him after he was attacked who teach at the school of the church of st francis ( in tripoli ) are dressed in brown . . . .
who are you ?
why are you holding me here ? "
" i was naked , and one of you washed me with a wet sponge , the other stroked my hair , above the bandages .
how embarrassing it is to be naked in front of two women .
yet you weren 't .
it was nice to be stroked , washed and clothed .
i can 't mohamed djitteye rushed to lock his till and cowered behind the counter .
he was dumbfounded when instead , the al-qaida commander gently opened the grocery ’ s glass door and asked for a pot of mustard .
then he asked for a receipt .
business portalproperties for sale in spain at the costa blanca villa in sanet y negrals with panoramic views over sea and mountains beautiful semi- detached villa in the montgo area in denia beutiful villa in one of the best areas of menorca & # 8211 ; binibeca vell- with sea view spain seems to finally get out of the banking crisis .
banking experts expect the consolidation of banks to be finished by the end of the top storiesnews near youindiaworldbusinesstechnologyentertainmentsportssciencehealthmore top storiesspotlighttop storiesnews near youindiaworldbusinesstechnologyentertainmentsportssciencehealthmore top storiesspotlightagustawestlandhindustan timessee realtime coverageindia cancels scandal-hit agustawestland chopper dealtimes of india7 hours agowritten byrajat panditnew delhi : india on wednesday finally cancelled the controversial rs 3,546 crore contract for 12 vvip helicopters inked with agustawestland in february 2010 , which has been enmeshed in allegations of huge kickbacks for over an year now .
the move ... india scraps agustawestland helicopter deal , agrees to arbitrationreuters indiavvip chopper scam : india scraps rs 3600-crore deal with agustawestlandndtvsee all 123 sourcesrelated : india elaraby did not say when the heavy weapons pulled out of cities , but abdul-rahman said it was on thursday .
" we call for the release of all of them , " he said .
" he is a capable military man with a clean reputation . "
“ mi6 and the cia are in syria to infiltrate , ” revealed the newspaper .
ain-al-yaqeen | about us | archive ain al yaqeen irin | children the vietnamese government and international donors are looking for new ways to fight malnutrition by shifting costs to the community , including “ social marketing ” , to see how private-sector strategies can be used to improve health .
about glasgowmontana.com forumboatingcity informationdentistsdoctorsentertainmentenvironmentfishinggeneral informationhuntingjust killing timelocal businesseslocal governmentnight lifepetsrelocating to glasgowrestaurantsschoolssearching for peopleskiingsportsweddings by checking this box i agree to glasgowmontana.com 's terms of use agreement .
queenstown pilot antony sproull is about to set off on what he sees as the adventure of a lifetime. read more ( 12 / 27 / 2013 11 : 38 : 10 am ) air côte d 'ivoire et bombardier concluent une entente d 'achat ferme avec des options pouvant totaliser jusqu 'à quatre ...
bombardier aéronautique a annoncé aujourd 'hui que son entente d 'achat avec air côte d 'ivoire , société aérienne basée à abidjan , est maintenant ferme .
la transaction , qui avait été annoncée comme ... ( 12 / 18 / 2013 12 : 02 : 00 pm ) a topless feminist protestor got more than she bargained for when she stormed a paris fashion week stage and tried to lift a model ’ s skirt .
liverpudlian born hollie-may saker , 18 , punched the femen activist .
“ i knew the scouser in me was bound to come out eventually , ” tweeted saker. lunch in the camp ’ s main lodge and games for the online abonelike-gazetehoşgeldi̇n 201401 ocak 2014 çarşambaanasayfaekonomifinansdış haberlerpolitikatoplumsektörlerkategori̇lerfinansne , nerede , ne zamangündembi̇k i̇lanlarıdünya ihtdış i̇lişkileremtiai̇şletme-yönetimmevzuatnews in englishgüncelyorum i̇ncelemebölgelerdenözel dosyalarresmi gazetetiger monitorbankacılık sektörübilişimdemir-çelik sektörüenerji sektörügıda sektörühaberleşme sektörühizmetleri̇nşaat sektörükimya-petrokimya sektörümadencilik sektörümağazacılık-perakendecilik sektörümedya sektörüotomotiv sektörüplastik-kauçuk sektörüsanayisavunma sanayiisigortacılık sektörütarım ve hayvancılıktaşımacılık sektörütekstil sektörüturizm sektörü17 : 48 - putinden , gül ve erdoğana yeni yıl mesajı17 : 32 - yılın yazar , fikir insanı ve sanatçıları açıklandı17 : 29 - filistinin prag büyükelçisi hayatını kaybetti17 : 24 - bulgaristanda asgari ücret 340 leva oldu17 : 22 - türkiye , avrupa ’ nın 11. zengini ! 17 : 16 - kuzu paralel devlet twitlerine açıklama getirdi17 : 15 - ötv artışı sektörü kötü etkileyecek16 : 38 - sayıştay tcdd raporu : gerekirse soruşturulsun16 : 03 - resmi burslu öğrencilere yeni yıl sürprizi15 : 54 - fakıbabadan türgeve 3 milyon liralık arsabasın i̇lan kurumu i̇lanları dünya onlineson haberleren çok okunanlarputin 'den , gül ve erdoğan 'a yeni yıl mesajı17 : 48yılın yazar , fikir insanı ve sanatçıları açıklandı17 : 32filistin 'in prag büyükelçisi hayatını kaybetti17 : 29bulgaristan 'da asgari ücret 340 leva oldu17 : 24türkiye , avrupa ’ nın 11. zengini ! 17 : 22 özel dosyalar2014 tüketicinin yılı olacak2014'te teknoloji modası ne olacak ? pazarlamanın 2013'ü dolu geçtimüşterinizin başağrısını iyileştirmek için varsınızpazarlamanın alfabesi yeni medya ile yazılıyordaha uzağı görmek için , daha derine inin ! geleceğe sadece müşterilerinin ' hayatını iyileştirenler ' kalacak14 adımda garantili mutsuzluk rehberii̇çerik ' kral ' müşteri ' kanka ' olursayetki mi sorumluluktan , sorumluluk mu yetkiden ? i̇letişimin ' kuşak ' çatışmasıdijital vasiyetiniz hazır mı ? tüketici temiz vicdan peşindei̇lk işimden öğrendiğim paha biçilemez derslerduyusal pazarlamanın 100 milyon dolarlık etkisison eklenen videolarturyap 'ın yatırımları ve faaliyetlerisigorta acenteliği seçimleri5.haftanın değerlendirilmesie-bültenekonomi17 : 22 - türkiye , avrupa ’ nın 11. zengini ! 17 : 15 - " ötv artışı sektörü kötü etkileyecek " 15 : 07 - kredi kartı düzenlemesi tüketiciyi paniğe soktu14 : 18 - boydak : hükümetin bakışını işadamına çevirmesini istiyoruz14 : 01 - bireysel emekliliğe katılım yüzde 30 arttı14 : 00 - bddk 'nın 5 yönetmeliği yürürlüğe girdi13 : 46 - yabancı marmaray kadar harcama yaptı13 : 35 - i̇stanbul ’ da yıllık enflasyon yüzde 7.9813 : 32 - hurda araçlardan 58 milyon lira katkı13 : 16 - elektrikte tarife bedelleri netleşti13 : 11 - tüketiciyi aldatana zamlı tarife13 : 06 - tüketimi kısma önlemleri devam ediyor13 : 05 - memurun gözü aralık enflasyonunda13 : 00 - gai̇b ihracatta en yüksek değerine ulaştı12 : 00 - asgari ücrete yüzde 5 + 6 zam yapıldıpolitika17 : 16 - kuzu ' paralel devlet ' twitlerine açıklama getirdi16 : 38 - sayıştay tcdd raporu : gerekirse soruşturulsun15 : 54 - fakıbaba 'dan türgev 'e 3 milyon liralık arsa15 : 43 - bu yıl orta gelirli için kemer sıkma yılı olacak15 : 14 - adalet bakanlığı 'nda yeni isim10 : 40 - i̇çişleri bakanı ala yemin edecek10 : 36 - erdoğan 'dan yılın ilk yurtdışı ziyareti22 : 42 - sağlık bakanlığı 'na 10 bin personel kadrosu21 : 53 - " amacımız türkiye 'yi en üst seviyeye taşımak " 18 : 31 - " bor madenini özelleştirmeyeceğiz " 16 : 07 - liderlerin yeni yıl mesajları15 : 42 - ' halk bankası 'nı tercih ederiz ' 14 : 43 - ' gezi parkı ' raporu tamamlandı14 : 20 - meb özel okul hedefini tutturdu14 : 02 - yeni yılda yeni yardım kampanyasıdış haberler17 : 48 - putin 'den , gül ve erdoğan 'a yeni yıl mesajı17 : 29 - filistin 'in prag büyükelçisi hayatını kaybetti17 : 24 - bulgaristan 'da asgari ücret 340 leva oldu15 : 30 - irak 'ta bu kez askerle aşiret çatıştı13 : 45 - letonya yeni yılda euro bölgesi 'ne resmen girdi13 : 33 - i̇ngiltere 'den i̇skoçya 'ya ' ayrılmayın ' mesajı10 : 46 - mısır , referandumu danıştay 'a taşıdı10 : 35 - abd , güney sudan için kaygı duyuyor10 : 15 - yunanistan ab dönem başkanlığı 'nı devraldı23 : 45 - abd 'de 40 bin yeni kanun yürürlüğe giriyor22 : 07 - kazakistan yeni yıla havai fişeklerle girdi16 : 38 - etiyopya 'da gazeteciye hapis cezası15 : 00 - 2 ülke 2014'e ' merhaba ' dedi14 : 57 - hannover 96 tayfun korkut ile anlaştı14 : 36 - sosyal yardımlardan faydalanmaları zorlaştırılıyor dünya onlinedünya grubu hakkındaonline künyedünya gazetesi künyesiabonelikalışverişrssreklami̇letişimdiğer sitelerimizkobiden.comdunyastore.compcworld.com.trcomputerworld.com.trbyte.com.trdunyagida.com.trdunyainsaat.com.trdünya ekonomi tvmontana news association passengers restrain man on flight who claims he poisoned everyone on the planeby montana news retour des rivalités ethniques au burundi sur fond de conflits fonciers retour des rivalités ethniques au burundi sur fond de conflits à qui appartient cette terre ?
c 'est la question à laquelle la cntb au burundi doit répondre quand le propriétaire , chassé par la guerre , rentre au c ’ est une épine sur le chemin de la réconciliation au burundi .
la recrudescence des conflits fonciers nés du rapatriement des réfugiés hutus .
durant les années de crise , et au cours des différentes guerres interethniques qu ’ a connues le pays , près de 700 000 burundais hutus ont fui pour se réfugier à l ’ étranger .
depuis 2002 , une grande partie d ’ entre eux a été rapatriée .
mais à leur retour , les terres ou maisons qu ’ ils possédaient étaient occupées .
pour la première fois depuis des années , un quartier de la capitale du burundi a été la scène d ’ émeutes aux relents ethniques à l ’ occasion de la restitution d 'une maison à une famille hutue spoliée il y a 40 ans .
cela s 'est passé le mardi 28 mai .
en charge de la résolution de ces conflits : la commission nationale des terres et autres biens ( cntb ) .
son rôle : régler les la plupart des litiges concernent des familles qui ont fui le pays en 1972 , il y a plus de 40 ans .
sur 30 000 dossiers enregistrés , la cntb revendique 22 000 cas réglés , dont plus de 60 & percnt à l ’ amiable .
mais elle est controversée : une partie de l ’ opinion publique l ’ accuse de raviver les tensions ethniques en privilégiant les rapatriés hutus dans ses décisions , sans tenir compte de l ’ éventuelle bonne foi des nouveaux occupants .
car qu 'ils soient tutsi ou hutus , ils ont parfois acquis leur bien en toute légalité et ne reçoivent aucune le gouvernement semble avoir pris la mesure du malaise et envisagerait une réforme du système .
d ’ autant que jusqu ’ à présent , la commission s 'est concentrée sur les conflits concernant les parcelles de terre , jugés les plus urgents .
mais près de 200 000 autres plaintes sont encore en attente .
elles concernent des maisons , des voitures ou comptes en banque .
un vaste chantier de nature , craignent certains , à saper un processus de réconciliation déjà bien mal en by jonathan buckthe franco-dutch airline has cut costs and restructured in an effort to end years of losses .
by dyan machanceo david pyott made botox a best seller around the world , launching the field of " medical aesthetics . "
by frederick " shad " roweeight pointers to a promising new economic direction for america international trader - asiawhere to bet in asia in 2014 by shuli renemerging markets look to be on the mend , and the stocks are cheap .
but beware of political risks in the fragile five .
by ben levisohnwall street expects big things from the economy and stock market in the new year .
but risks abound , and it pays to beware .
the case for staples .
technology traderno silver lining in the cloud for blue-chip techs by theresa w. careya new feature on market prophit 's site ranks bloggers who tweet on their ability to be correct .
by brendan conwayetf investors can look forward to an onslaught of more niche products , the downfall of " smart beta , " and bigger discrepancies in pricing .
the stage is set for a new look mclean county tournament .
the name is different , and so is the format .
a crash early new year 's day sent one man to the hospital after his car flipped onto a house in roswell .
dmca notice irin | africa | west africa | togo here is the tweet from cruz that led kessler to go on the attack : argentinaargentineargentinianbain capitalbarack obamaboehnerboliviabudgetcbocfkclintoncnncongresscristina fernandezcristina fernandez kirchnercristina kirchnerdebt ceilingdeficiteconomyedward snowdenelectionemployer mandateemploymententitlementsevo moralesfiscal cliffgang of eight bill hiring incentivehealth careimmigrationinflationinternetjobsla presidentalive-tweetsmainstream media reporting on immigration reformmediamedicaremitt romneyobamaobamacareoccupy wall streetohioonline sales taxowspennsylvaniaphysiciansrepublicansromneyryansequestersocial securityspendingstate governmentsstockssustainable growth ratetaxestaxesthomas sowelltoo much malbectwitterunionswages it is my honor to address the 61st assembly of the montana legislature or as yogi berra said , " i want to thank everybody for making this day myanmar pardons political offendersboston.commyanmar to release all remaining political prisonersthe sun dailysee all 142 sourcesrelated myanmar parties meet at 1.30am in a bid to finalise textbelfast newsletternorthern ireland peace process : the main issuestelegraph.co.ukfrom united kingdom : ni haass talks : political reactionbbc newsin depth : northern ireland parties fail in bid to strike dealirish timessee all 380 sourcesrelated richard n. haass egypt detains three al-jazeera journalistsirish timesfour journalists held in egyptthe news internationalsee all 1,108 sourcesrelated egypt later allowed to have two children if the first was a baby girl , but the law was due to a preference for boys and the resulting widespread practice of sex-selective with " only a slight increase in births " according to xinhua. one of the harshest and most arbitrary systems of violation of human rights would through labour system was set up in 1957 as a speedy way to handle petty anyone under " administrative detention " for up to four years without sessions to be " re-educated " in accordance with the values of a socialist hope that bishops james su zhimin of baoding and cosma shi enxiang of yixian , end of laojiao camps .
the clergymen have been in police custody for 15 , clergymen from the underground church are in laojiao centres for celebrating mass the laojiao system does not in fact change china 's policy of " administrative and this is just one example - new " black jails " were discovered in online abonelike-gazetehoşgeldi̇n 201401 ocak 2014 çarşambaanasayfaekonomifinansdış haberlerpolitikatoplumsektörlerkategori̇lerfinansne , nerede , ne zamangündembi̇k i̇lanlarıdünya ihtdış i̇lişkileremtiai̇şletme-yönetimmevzuatnews in englishgüncelyorum i̇ncelemebölgelerdenözel dosyalarresmi gazetetiger monitorbankacılık sektörübilişimdemir-çelik sektörüenerji sektörügıda sektörühaberleşme sektörühizmetleri̇nşaat sektörükimya-petrokimya sektörümadencilik sektörümağazacılık-perakendecilik sektörümedya sektörüotomotiv sektörüplastik-kauçuk sektörüsanayisavunma sanayiisigortacılık sektörütarım ve hayvancılıktaşımacılık sektörütekstil sektörüturizm sektörü17 : 48 - putinden , gül ve erdoğana yeni yıl mesajı17 : 32 - yılın yazar , fikir insanı ve sanatçıları açıklandı17 : 29 - filistinin prag büyükelçisi hayatını kaybetti17 : 24 - bulgaristanda asgari ücret 340 leva oldu17 : 22 - türkiye , avrupa ’ nın 11. zengini ! 17 : 16 - kuzu paralel devlet twitlerine açıklama getirdi17 : 15 - ötv artışı sektörü kötü etkileyecek16 : 38 - sayıştay tcdd raporu : gerekirse soruşturulsun16 : 03 - resmi burslu öğrencilere yeni yıl sürprizi15 : 54 - fakıbabadan türgeve 3 milyon liralık arsapolitikakuzu ' paralel devlet ' twitlerine açıklama getirditwitter hesabından , başbakan 'a 2 bin kişilik istihbarat raporu sunulduğunu ifade eden burhan kuzu , katıldığı programda konuya ilişkin soruları yanıtladısayıştay tcdd raporu : gerekirse soruşturulsunsayıştay ’ ın tcdd 2012 raporunda , aralarında olacağı iddia edilen ' ikinci dalga operasyonlar 'da adları geçenlerin de bulunduğu bazı firmalarla ilgili tespitler yer aldı .
varılan tespitlerle ilgili gerekirse soruşturma başlatılması talep edildifakıbaba 'dan türgev 'e 3 milyon liralık arsaşanlıurfa belediye başkanı fakıbaba , mütevelli heyetinde başbakan erdoğan ’ ın oğlu bilal erdoğan , büyük kızı esra albayrak 'ın yer aldığı türgev 'e yurt binası için 7 bin 921 metrekarelik arsa tahsis ettibu yıl orta gelirli için kemer sıkma yılı olacakyeni yıl ile birlikte vatandaşın kapısını çalan zamlardan yakınan chp grup başkanvekili hamzaçebi , asgari ücrette yapılan sınırlı artışın zamlarla geri alındığına dikkat çektiadalet bakanlığı 'nda yeni isimadalet bakanlığı müsteşarı birol erdem 'in yerine kenan i̇pek getirildii̇çişleri bakanı ala yemin edecekyarın toplanacak olan genel kurul 'da milletvekili olmayan i̇çişleri bakanı efkan ala yemin edecek.erdoğan 'dan yılın ilk yurtdışı ziyaretibaşbakan erdoğan , 5-11 ocak tarihlerinde japonya , singapur ve malezya ’ ya resmi ziyaret gerçekleştirecek.sağlık bakanlığı 'na 10 bin personel kadrosusağlık bakanlığı 'na 2014 yılı için 10 bin 18 yeni sözleşmeli personel kadrosu tahsis edildi " amacımız türkiye 'yi en üst seviyeye taşımak " spor bakanı kılıç , " bizim amacımız , güzel ülkemizi , türkiye cumhuriyeti devleti 'ni en üst seviyeye taşımak , muasır medeniyetler seviyesinin üzerine taşımak , ekonomik olarak ilk 10 büyük ekonomi arasına taşımak " dedi " bor madenini özelleştirmeyeceğiz " bakan yıldız , " 2014 yılında özellikle bor madenini , özelleştirmeyeceğimizin altını kalın çizgilerle çizerek söylüyorum " dediliderlerin yeni yıl mesajlarıcumhurbaşkanı gül , siyasi istikrarı ve ekonomik güven ortamını sarsacak tutum ve davranışlardan kaçınılması gerektiğini belirterek , ' unutmayalım ki hepimiz aynı gemideyiz ' dedi 'halk bankası 'nı tercih ederiz 'enerji ve tabii kaynaklar bakanı taner yıldız , irak ile petrol alışverişinde halk bankası 'nı tercih ettiklerini söyledi 'gezi parkı ' raporu tamamlandıkdk , gezi parkı olaylarında kolluğun gösteride bulunanlara karşı hak ihlalleri ve orantısız güç kullandıkları iddiasıyla 17 kişinin yaptığı şikayetleri birleştirerek kabul etti ve raporunu tamamladımeb özel okul hedefini tutturdumeb , 2014 yılında ulaşmayı hedeflediği özel okul sayısına 2013 yılı itibariyle ulaştı .
2011-2012 eğitim öğretim yılında 885 olan özel ortaög ̆ retim kurum sayısı bu yıl itibariyle bin 396 ’ ya çıktıyeni yılda yeni yardım kampanyasıbaşbakan yardımcısı beşir atalay , afad tarafından organize edilen suriyeli vatandaşlar için yapılacak yeni yardım kampanyasının toplantısı için sivil toplum kuruluşlarıyla bir araya geldi12345678sonraki sayfa dünya onlinedünya grubu hakkındaonline künyedünya gazetesi künyesiabonelikalışverişrssreklami̇letişimdiğer sitelerimizkobiden.comdunyastore.compcworld.com.trcomputerworld.com.trbyte.com.trdunyagida.com.trdunyainsaat.com.trdünya ekonomi tv news : : news & events : : diocese of des moines leachman trial and the famed horse leg bandsby montana news facing a triple threat : doha , epa and congressby paul driessen 9 / 11 suspects may be tried in civilian courts not military tribunalsby jim kouri justice michael gableman pressed clark on the structure of the law .
“ what ’ s the purpose of the requirements if not to mimic marriage ? ” he asked .
campell argued the state had the right under its own constitution to ban gay marriage , and that lawmakers have used it .
if there ’ s any ambiguity , he added , the question of whether or not a ban should be put in place should be left to the legislature , not the courts .
the court ’ s ruling leaves in place states ’ bans on same-sex marriage , but some experts say they ’ re now vulnerable to a challenge state by state .
honoree betty schaner spends a lifetime nurturing in oliver county privacy policyterms of useabout uscontact usemploymentlinksventure marketing © 2013 bhg , inc . all rights reserved .
goloading ... > > view all results for " " enter multiple symbols separated by commaslondon quotes now availablego newseconomyfinancehealth carereal estateretailwealthautosearningsenergymediapoliticscommentaryspecial reportsasiaeuropemarketspre-marketsu.s.asiaeuropestockscommoditiescurrenciesbondsfundsetfsinvestingfinancial advisorspersonal financecnbc explainsportfoliowatchliststock screenerfund screenertechmobilesocial mediaenterprisegamingcybersecuritysmall businessfranchisingfinancingmanagementvideolatest videodigital workshopu.s. videoasia videoeurope videoceo interviewsanalyst interviewsfull episodesclosed captioningshowswatch livecnbc u.s.cnbc asia-pacificcnbc europecnbc worldfull episodescnbcabout cnbcsite mapvideo reprintsadvertisecareershelpcontactprivacy policyterms of serviceindependent programming reportlatest news releasesrsscertain market data provided by thomson reutersdata also provided bydata is a real-time snapshot * data is delayed at least 15 minutesglobal business and financial news , stock quotes , and market data and analysis © 2014 cnbc llc . all rights reserved.a division of nbcuniversal diocese of duluth - catholic church in northeastern minnesota cnbc 's mandy drury reports on the top cybersecurity headlines of 2013 , from nsa leaker edward snowden , to some of the largest data breaches and problems with the obamacare exchanges .
it could take a year to secure the risk of " high exposures " of personal information on the federal obamacare online exchange , a cybersecurity expert told cnbc .
cadie thompson is a tech reporter for the enterprise team for cnbc.com.
jon fortt is an on-air editor .
he covers the companies , start-ups , and trends that are driving innovation in the industry .
newseconomyfinancehealth carereal estateretailwealthautosearningsenergymediapoliticscommentaryspecial reportsasiaeuropemarketspre-marketsu.s.asiaeuropestockscommoditiescurrenciesbondsfundsetfsinvestingfinancial advisorspersonal financecnbc explainsportfoliowatchliststock screenerfund screenertechmobilesocial mediaenterprisegamingcybersecuritysmall businessfranchisingfinancingmanagementvideolatest videodigital workshopu.s. videoasia videoeurope videoceo interviewsanalyst interviewsfull episodesclosed captioningshowswatch livecnbc u.s.cnbc asia-pacificcnbc europecnbc worldfull episodescnbcabout cnbcsite mapvideo reprintsadvertisecareershelpcontactprivacy policyterms of serviceindependent programming reportlatest news releasesrsscertain market data provided by thomson reutersdata also provided bydata is a real-time snapshot * data is delayed at least 15 minutesglobal business and financial news , stock quotes , and market data and analysis © 2014 cnbc llc . all rights reserved.a division of nbcuniversal news : : news & events : : diocese of des moines the albuquerque police department has released security video of a man suspected of robbing a hastings store at gunpoint over the weekend .
billings sex store , big sky books robbed at gun pointby montana news billings " operation warm " is in full swing , providing warm coats to billings kidsby montana news updated weather forcast for billings mt and surrounding areaby montana news puerto rico may be cut to junk by moody & # 8217 ; s on weak economy homehomehot topics ( 1 new ) current affairsworld newsbusiness & # 38 ; financeindustry sectorstechnologysciencesportlifestyleentertainment & # 38 ; artsworld newsworld newseuropenorth americalatin americacaribbeanasiaafricamiddle eastsouth pacificcaribbeancaribbeanbahamasbarbadoscubadominican republichaitijamaicapuerto ricopuerto ricosport © 2013 indexmundi - all rights reservedinterviu | cadran politic care va fi viitorul industriilor de apărare din uniunea europeană ?
are românia șansa de a beneficia de o viitoare piață de apărare europeană ?
aceasta a fost întrebarea la care au dorit să răspundă participanții la seminarul & # 8220 ; noi soluții pentru apărarea europeană & # 8221 ; , organizat de către eurodeputații norica nicolai ( vicepreședintă a subcomisiei de securitate și apărare ) și ioan mircea pașcu ( vicepreședinte al comisiei de afaceri externe ) ....
decizia ucrainei nu înseamnă nici sfârșitul partaneriatului estic , nici al influenței uniunii europene în regiune la bruxelles , asociatia internațională a presei a organizat o dezbatere la care a fost invitat de onoare ministrul de externe al lituaniei , linas linkevicius .
lituania deține președinția semenstrială a uniunii europene în acest moment .
dezbaterea , dedicată unei analize de tip politic și geopolitic a evoluțiilor din cadrul parteneriatului estic , a debutat chiar în momentul în care guvernul ...
de ce nu vrea rusia ca ucraina să se orienteze spre uniunea europeană steven blockmans este senior research fellow și șef al departamentului de studii privind politica externă a uniunii europene la centre for european policy studies din bruxelles .
expertiza sa se afla la intersectia a două domenii : legislația internațională și legislația ue referitaore la buna guvernare .
steven blockmans este profesor de drept comunitar de la universitatea din amsterdam și ...
exclusiv : sir graham watson : trebuie să alegem : salvăm proiectul european , rămânând solidari unii cu alții , sau să ne « sinucidem » separat sir graham watson este unul din liderii respectați ai liberalilor europeni .
cunoscut pentru activitatea sa politică neîntreruptă în parlamentul european parlamentului european din 1994 până azi , eurodeputatul britanic s-a remarcat prin criticile pertinente aduse cabinetului barroso , dar și printr sprijinul acordar în ultimii ani româniei în problema precum ridicarea resticțiilor pe ...
“ geopolitica secolului xxi va fi una de factură cosmo-umanista ” – despre puterea informatiei si politica mileniului iii , impreuna cu acad .
albert ignatenko considerat o somitate în unele cercuri ale oamenilor de știință , contestat abitir în altele , respectat și adulat de elevii săi , detestat și acuzat fără rețineri de oponenți , e o legedă vie , pe care el însuși o gestionează cu precizie de maestru , astfel încât chiar și cei care nu îl plac se văd nevoiți să recunoască că este cel puțin o figură interesantă .
știe să treacă ...
calea spre „ mecca ” resurselor energetice – strategii , provocări de securitate și demersuri diplomatice ( ii ) și pentru că tocmai am vorbit despre republicile islamice ruse din caucaz … spuneți-ne , considerați că în caucazul de nord a fost o strategie greșită a kremlinului de a transfera o justificare motivată religios și cu implicații globale ( dacă vorbim de războiul împotriva terorismului practicat de grupările radicale ale fundamentalismului islamic ) unui conflict etnic cu rădăcini istorice ?
calea spre « mecca » resurselor energetice – strategii , provocări de securitate și demersuri diplomatice ( i ) vă propunem o interesantă și amănunțită radiografie a regiunii caucaz , un spațiu cu o miză uriașă datorită resurselor energetice , de unde și multitudinea de strategii geopolitice , provocări de securitate și mutări politice și economice vizibile sau discrete care pot scăpa uneori și unui ochi avizat .
interlocutor în acest pelerinaj analitic ne-a fost prof. univ. dr ....
un adevărat român & # 8211 ; interviu cu asr prinţul paul al româniei alteţa sa regală , prinţul paul al româniei este fiu al asr carol mircea al româniei şi al helenei henriette nagavitzine , nepot pe linie paternă al regelui carol al ii-lea al româniei .
este căsătorit cu prinţesa lia şi au împreună un băiat , carol ferdinand , primul descendent regal născut în românia în ultimii 90 de ani .
valea timocului este o zonă în care românii au continuitate încă de la ocupaţia romană interviu cu domnul tiberius puiu tiberius puiu este publicist şi traducător , membru al societăţii române de balcanistică şi slavistică şi al asociaţiei de studii scandinave şi baltice .
este autorul cărţii „ ucraina şi ucrainenii ” în care este prezentată în mod obiectiv istoria ucrainei , precum şi tema holodomorului , marea foamete din 1933 .
a fost distins cu o diplomă de onoare a uniunii scriitorilor din ucraina .... „ venitul unui medic ar trebui să fie de trei ori mai mare decât venitul mediu pe economie “ interviu cu prof. univ. dr mircea cinteză prof. univ. dr .
mircea cinteză , cu o vastă experienţă şi renume în specialitatea cardiologie , este profesor de cardiologie şi medicină internă la catedra de cardiologie şi medicină internă a universităţii de medicină şi farmacie „ carol davila ” , bucureşti ; şeful secţiei de cardiologie a spitalului universitar de urgenţă , bucureşti ; din 1996 este membru al consiliului profesoral ... © 2013 cadran politic · rss · designed by theme junkie · powered by wordpress caribbean news now ! : rss feeds our rss feeds are free and we currently use rss 2.0 .
click on the icon of the content category ( ies ) you 're interested in subscribing to , and follow the instructions to add to your news reader or your personal my yahoo ! or my aol page .
homehomehot topics ( 1 new ) current affairsworld newsbusiness & # 38 ; financeindustry sectorstechnologysciencesportlifestyleentertainment & # 38 ; artsworld newsworld newseuropenorth americalatin americacaribbeanasiaafricamiddle eastsouth pacificafricaalgeriaangolabotswanaburundicamerooncentral african republicdr congoegyptethiopiaghanaguinea-bissauivory coastkenyaliberialibyamadagascarmalimauritiusmoroccomozambiquenamibianigernigeriarwandasomaliasouth africasouth sudansudantunisiaugandazambiazimbabwe ian holley says security services is working on cutting down that number .
the special constable investigator is a staunch promoter of cycling culture , having served as the auctioneer for macycle ’ s annual bike auction .
if security services can pinpoint a pattern occurring at a location — or better yet — a specific culprit , holley says they ’ ll set up one of their own bikes to be stolen and monitor the area .
while the cycling infrastructure at mcmaster and in its immediate area seems to be on the right track , things don ’ t happen to be as rosy in the city ’ s core where cyclists aren ’ t afforded the same privileges. head lawyer is mr. dhira who is affiliated with pestalozzi gmuer as at 2010 we offer all foreigners our free litigation advice service .
if you have a problem then ask us for free .
this is the only service in thailand that offers you for free .
we aim to help expats and save you money .
he has also worked in regulatory and transactional matters of finance and insurance law and he has litigation and arbitration experience in experience in corporate and commercial law as well as international and as insolvency procedures .
he also has extensive experience in real ll.b. thammasat university .
she is a senior associate and has mostly michael sneyd , foreign exchange analyst at bnp paribas , expects the usd / jpy to move " even higher " in 2014 but says he remains bearish on eur / usd as the ecb should be " much more active . "
newseconomyfinancehealth carereal estateretailwealthautosearningsenergymediapoliticscommentaryspecial reportsasiaeuropemarketspre-marketsu.s.asiaeuropestockscommoditiescurrenciesbondsfundsetfsinvestingfinancial advisorspersonal financecnbc explainsportfoliowatchliststock screenerfund screenertechmobilesocial mediaenterprisegamingcybersecuritysmall businessfranchisingfinancingmanagementvideolatest videodigital workshopu.s. videoasia videoeurope videoceo interviewsanalyst interviewsfull episodesclosed captioningshowswatch livecnbc u.s.cnbc asia-pacificcnbc europecnbc worldfull episodescnbcabout cnbcsite mapvideo reprintsadvertisecareershelpcontactprivacy policyterms of serviceindependent programming reportlatest news releasesrsscertain market data provided by thomson reutersdata also provided bydata is a real-time snapshot * data is delayed at least 15 minutesglobal business and financial news , stock quotes , and market data and analysis © 2014 cnbc llc . all rights reserved.a division of nbcuniversal | agencia venezolana de noticias denmark may be a small european country , but it makes a lot of spectacular high-end speakers , like the davone grande .
[ read more ] ( 12 / 28 / 2013 11 : 01 : 36 am ) in an interview with the guardian following a consultative meeting between the two parties in morogoro , the commissioner for education prof eustella bhalalusesa confirmed the news of the central admission system for secondary schools in the country .
for those who are intrigued to discover how the locals celebrate new year 's eve in iceland , but aren 't fortunate enough to make it in person , they can now be a part of the festivities anywhere in the world ... ( 12 / 27 / 2013 10 : 07 : 19 am ) online abonelike-gazetehoşgeldi̇n 201401 ocak 2014 çarşambaanasayfaekonomifinansdış haberlerpolitikatoplumsektörlerkategori̇lerfinansne , nerede , ne zamangündembi̇k i̇lanlarıdünya ihtdış i̇lişkileremtiai̇şletme-yönetimmevzuatnews in englishgüncelyorum i̇ncelemebölgelerdenözel dosyalarresmi gazetetiger monitorbankacılık sektörübilişimdemir-çelik sektörüenerji sektörügıda sektörühaberleşme sektörühizmetleri̇nşaat sektörükimya-petrokimya sektörümadencilik sektörümağazacılık-perakendecilik sektörümedya sektörüotomotiv sektörüplastik-kauçuk sektörüsanayisavunma sanayiisigortacılık sektörütarım ve hayvancılıktaşımacılık sektörütekstil sektörüturizm sektörü17 : 48 - putinden , gül ve erdoğana yeni yıl mesajı17 : 32 - yılın yazar , fikir insanı ve sanatçıları açıklandı17 : 29 - filistinin prag büyükelçisi hayatını kaybetti17 : 24 - bulgaristanda asgari ücret 340 leva oldu17 : 22 - türkiye , avrupa ’ nın 11. zengini ! 17 : 16 - kuzu paralel devlet twitlerine açıklama getirdi17 : 15 - ötv artışı sektörü kötü etkileyecek16 : 38 - sayıştay tcdd raporu : gerekirse soruşturulsun16 : 03 - resmi burslu öğrencilere yeni yıl sürprizi15 : 54 - fakıbabadan türgeve 3 milyon liralık arsaemtiaemtia fiyatlarını " çin " çarpacakbrent petrol 108 dolar seviyesindebrent petrol 107 doların üzerindemısır 'daki gerginliklerin etkisiyle 107 doların üzerine yükselen petrol fiyatları yatay seyrediyor.brent petrol 102 doların üzerindefed 'in tahvil alım programını azaltabileceği endişeleriyle düşen petrol fiyatları toparlanıyor.brent petrol 104 doların üzerinde yataybrent petrol 103 doların üzerinde tutunamadıbrent petrol 104 doların üzerinde yatayi̇nternetten altın satışı yüzde 120 arttıi̇nternetten altın satışı yüzde 120 arttıbrent petrol 105 doların altındabrent petrol 100 doların altına düştübrent petrol yatay seyrediyorbrent petrol 103 dolar sınırında dünya onlinedünya grubu hakkındaonline künyedünya gazetesi künyesiabonelikalışverişrssreklami̇letişimdiğer sitelerimizkobiden.comdunyastore.compcworld.com.trcomputerworld.com.trbyte.com.trdunyagida.com.trdunyainsaat.com.trdünya ekonomi tv congo , the democratic republic of the crude oil consumption by year ( thousand barrels per day ) “ from alabama , an epic challenge to voting rights ” — reuters “ promise vs. reality in newark on mayor ’ s watch ” — the new york times “ plenty of guards , but no inmates at downstate juvenile prison ” — chicago sun-times tajikistan who and development partners conducted assessment of the quality of antenatal and postnatal care in tajikistan “ ас атасы – нан ” – bread is the head of all foods , kazakh proverb wgu is a member of the consortium and the sloan foundation is a member of wgu 's national advisory board .
attention , shoppers : that $ 30 gift card that you plan to use to buy a new shirt ?
it might not be worth $ 30 by the time you redeem it .
in fact , it might not be worth anything at all .
the republicans ' heartlessness toward the jobless could cause a " serious backlash " in next november 's elections , according to the washington post .
is now the time to snag a gym membership deal ?
pot , tanning and transgender students top new laws in 2014 2013 by the numbers : polls add up to a tough year for washington azerbaijanis jailed over rally for man who immolated himself in protest how is the u.s. standing up against atrocities in burma ?
a look back at the year in crazy , part two cop says it 's " illegal " to film her , man tells her off and refuses to stopinformationliberation 07 : 08 31-dec-13 “ one of the students came to me and said , ‘ we know something is happening , but no one is talking about this . ’
i talked to the principal and said there needed to be more dialogue , ” recalled eliason , a republican .
“ having blinders on and not talking about it does not help anyone , ” anielski said in an interview with the sun news of ohio .
the challenge is separating gun safety from the politically fraught issue of gun control , said catherine barber , one of the co-authors of the study . two months ago or so , the leadership of the ruling chama cha mapinduzi came out in public to claim that some of its members appointed by president jakaya kikwete to the ministerial posts have turned out to be a burden .
in a word they are all calling for a better world .
revamping and modernising our agriculture by engaging higher levels of mechanisation , greater use of better seeds and other inputs as well as lending a keener ear to extension staff doubtless pays .
for instance , while it once took up to six hours to travel by bus on a dusty road from morogoro to dar es salaam , it now takes a mere three hours – and it is even shorter by car .
zimebaki siku chache tu kabla ya kuwadia kwa sikukuu ya krismasi inayoadhimishwa desemba 25 ya kila mwaka ambapo wakristo wote duniani husherehekea siku ya kuzaliwa kwa yesu kristo .
the ongoing championship earmarked for the under-20 strings of mainland tanzania ’ s top flight clubs deserves more support if it is to help in uplifting the quality and status of our soccer .
not that we care so much for the faces involved , but the recent developments within this country ’ s major opposition party , the chama cha demokrasia na maendeleo ( chadema ) , are worrisome .
there is the saying that a stitch in time saves nine .
put simply is the need to ensure that what can be made now is not put off for another day .
it is encouraging because for the past few years tazara has put up a dismal performance with aged locomotive engines and poor management .
as the country prepares for funerals and burial of the late dr sengondo mvungi this weekend up to monday , the rest of us are locked in reflection on his life and career , to discover how rich it was and the gap that remains .
as recently as last weekend , natural resources and tourism minister khamis kagasheki and police officers impounded 706 pieces of ivory in a posh dar es salaam suburb .
for instance , while in those ages gone by people used to walk miles and miles from village to village , now it takes a matter of hours or minutes to do so by bus or car for individuals who can afford the comfort .
ccm chairman and union president jakaya kikwete had a few sober words for ruling party executives at a seminar in the legislative capital of dodoma on friday , which is likely to be food for thought for ccm supporters and leaders all over the country , and similarly , to equally dubious effects , for all intents and purposes .
a war of words has been engaged between the ministry of natural resources and mineral on the one hand and local investors on the other , as to how far the local private sector can participate in harnessing the natural gas ’ manna ’ that has been exciting everyone ’ s imagination , from makonde elders to the london stock exchange .
a boy is using satellite internet at home .
he grumbles at how slow it is downloading .
the father pleads for a bit of patience and understanding , saying : & ldquo ; give it a moment ; it has to go to outer space and back , you know ! & rdquo ; a sizeable proportion of hospital admissions and outpatients in health facilities are due to the disease .
for a long time tanzania was reputed as a haven of peace and tranquility .
as a matter of fact , it is this reputation that has attracted investors and tourists to the country .
it is common for the national stadium in dar es salaam to be filled to capacity whenever young africans and simba meet in either the premiership or any other competitive football match .
the government has now allowed trucks and upcountry buses to use the old system of a five per cent allowable axle-load for a month pending recommendations from a team of experts and stakeholders currently looking into the matter .
what reading should one make of reports about the undermining of efforts to ensure that malaria patients across tanzania pay only as much for one of the drugs of choice as they ought to – and not a cent more ?
there should be no euphemisms or mincing of words here : whoever is behind the practice is engaged in crime and it is not merely a case of running against professional ethics .
the nation is looking on in awe and disbelief as the face-off between the tanzania bus owners association ( taboa ) and the tanzania association for truck owners ( tatoa ) on the one hand and the works ministry on the other takes its toll .
the government is getting increasingly draconian with the media – for reasons we cannot yet tell .
this country is not under a state of emergency .
so why close newspapers , if we may ask ?
wiki iliyopita ilikuwa ni mbaya kwa viwango vyovyote katika tasnia ya habari nchini .
ni wiki ambayo serikali iliendelea kuitumia sheria ya magazeti namba 3 ya mwaka 1976 ambayo inatoa madaraka yasiyohojiwa kwa serikali kufungia vyombo vya habari , kwa kile ambacho kimekuwa kinadaiwa kuwa ni kuendesha uchochezi .
those who stole taxpayers ' trillions should be arrested and prosecuted three years ago on november 19 , 2010 , dar es salaam water supply and sewerage authority ( dawasa ) and dar es salaam water and sewerage corporation ( dawasco ) submitted an application for review and approval of water supply and sewerage tariffs .
a few years ago , president jakaya kikwete called on tanzanians to embark on fish farming in a bid to improve availability of the resource in the country and also to improve their incomes .
how well informed and prepared are tanzanians in donating blood ?
the fifth round of the league was concluded yesterday but the major highlight so far has been violence that has to a great extent tarnished the unfolding season .
get your daily dosage of cartoons from kabwela , the flexibles and dogo speaking to reporters in dar es salaam wednesday , twb managing director margareth chacha said that the bank was established specifically for women , and therefore there is a need for them to be educated on the terms of borrowing and how to use the loans to develop their ventures .
2012 end of year tax burden : how to lighten the loadby montana news how to make an impression at holiday partiesby montana news join td ameritrade and trade free for 60 days and get up to $ 600 note : offers may be valid in the us only .
the information and links on this page are provided for your convenience only .
barron 's is not a registered broker-dealer and does not endorse or recommend the services of any brokerage company .
the information and services that can be accessed through these links are provided by the individual brokerage companies , not barron 's .
the brokerage company you select is solely responsible for its services to you , the user .
barron 's shall not be liable for any damages or costs of any type arising out of or in any way connected with your use of a brokerage company 's services .
an oil field worker walks away from an derrick outside of williston , n.d. thanks to a surge of production on bakken shale , the state ’ s economic growth is tops in the nation — by far ( ap ) .
north dakota ’ s economy wasn ’ t much to behold a decade ago .
but that ’ s changed dramatically thanks to surging oil and gas production on its bakken shale .
hydraulic fracturing by energy drillers may not be the heaviest consumer of water on parched land .
but environmentalists and some farmers are starting to worry about it . & ldquo ; as you may know , by the end of next year , the china-invested baha mar resort , the largest of its kind in the caribbean region , will be completed . & ldquo ; this is a showcase of the pragmatic progress of our cooperation . & rdquo ; marriott international & starwood hotels : should i stay or should i go ?
icahn to ft : why shouldn 't my board picks share in profits ?
in the the world of fuel , brazil-based ultrapar participac ̧ o ̃ es s.a.
( ugp ) is having a mixed day .
gold is headed for its worst year in decades .
but an oddball debt security linked to the price of gold has dodged nearly all of the metal 's 27 % loss .
analyst : no need to pull the plug on clogged goodrich petroleum answer : maybe not .
in a stock-market selloff , investors who buy " smart beta " may end up smarting instead .
biglari considers " quixotic " bid for cracker barrel , ducks and all it 's the most contrarian time of the year … for stock pickers sign up for the safe checking in the electronic age e-mail list to receive our newsletter .
the british company has won the official support of cameroon ’ s president and the regime ’ s dignitaries for its development work on the logbaba field . ( ... )
imprisoned marafa hamidou yaya marafa and iya mohammed iya have cast a long shadow over the ruling rdpc in the lead-up to cameroon ’ s parliamentary elections . ( ... )
if you are interested in being a jc for camp survive you must have completed 10th grade .
it also helps if you attended camp survive in the past , but it is not a requirement .
to help defray the cost of your stay we askjcs to pay $ 65.clickhere for an application letter andform to become a jc ! clickhere for your jc permission form we are in your communityprairie public is in your community , celebrating the joy of lifelong learning and participating in important community-building events .
if you see us in your town , stop to say hello !
peruse our schedule of events here , and check back for updates often .
china 's string of pearls strategy : why is the u.s. afraid and how does it affect us ? a job she left upon adopting the first of her is good for the child because he or she then for adoption , ” she said .
“ i want to be an advocate cerca de 3 mil millones de bolívares contempla proyecto de presupuesto para mérida en 2014un total de 2.852.492,25 bolívares contempla el proyecto de ley de presupuesto de ingresos y gastos públicos para el ejercicio fiscal 2014 , elaborado por el consejo ... despliegan jornada de conciencia sobre riegos por uso de globos del deseo cuadrillas de corpoelec en el estado lara harán , la noche de este martes 31 de diciembre , una jornada de conciencia sobre el uso de las lámparas flotantes llamadas ... más de 27.000 toneladas de asfalto se colocaron este año en táchirael presidente del instituto de vialidad tachirense , milton trejo , detalló que durante este año se colocaron 27.313 toneladas de asfalto , 28 % más que en 2012 , con lo que ...
cerca de 3 mil millones de bolívares contempla proyecto de presupuesto para mérida en 2014 despliegan jornada de conciencia sobre riegos por uso de globos del deseo más de 27.000 toneladas de asfalto se colocaron este año en táchira ferrocaril de los valles del tuy prestará servicio el 1º de enero desde las 8 : 00 am este 31 de diciembre el horario de servicio del ferrocaril de los valles del tuy se mantendrá de 5 : 00 de la mañana a 10 : 20 de la noche gnb incauta 90.000 kilos de café y desmantela banda criminal en barinas leonardo vinci bonetto , comandante del destacamento número 14 de la gnb , en la entidad llanera , detalló las acciones de la gran misión a toda vida venezuela que permitieron la incautación del café , que era movilizado en tres gandolas persiste emergencia en valencia por fallas en recolección de basura las parroquias san josé , catedral , san blas , rafael urdaneta , el socorro , la zona sur de santa rosa y algunas zonas de miguel peña son las más afectadas por esta situación , que ha ocasionado gran cantidad de basura en calles y avenidas principales funcionarios de protección civil , bomberos municipales y la policía de guaicaipuro , en miranda , supervisan la venta y expendio de artificios pirotécnicos en el casco central de los teques , para garantizar el cumplimiento de las normas de seguridad en la jurisdicción consejo comunal en maracaibo recibió medicamentos e insumos para asistencia médica yaracuy fortalece estructura de atención hospitalaria en todos sus niveles familia torrealba : " tener nuestra vivienda es un sueño posible gracias al comandante chávez " the importance of religious liberty was the topic of this year ’ s knights of columbus kylee , kaitlyn and keegan .
shown in the back row are officers of the knights ’ belgrade newest signee to def jam and leader of the rattpack , logic , sat down with rikki martinez to discuss life as a xxl freshman , meeting nas , and his goals to become one of the best to ever grab a mic and rap .
in spite of low ratings , bethenny frankel 's ' bethenny ' set to return watch them dothe falling overwatch them dothe standing stillnothing but the knife to live forone life , all i needgive me one good reasongive me more s .... ( women ) and the women come and go ( talk ) talking about me like they know ( men ) bought and soldand the world keeps turningpeople coldand people burningnothing but the knife to live forone life , all i needgive me one good reasongive me more s .... nothing but the knife to live forone life , all i needgive me one good reasongive me more s ....
( amphetamine logic ) hit upsteel in handlit uplike candlesburninglike catherine wheelsturningonnothing but the knife to live forone life , all i needgive me one good reasongive me more s ....
( amphetmine logic ) i ´ m giving my all encapsulate the signsyou give me the talk dissect distract my mindi ´ m hitting the wall crashed out right to the coreyou ´ re watching me stall but still i push for moreit ´ s on the blade but let it slide offyou ´ ve got the brain but i ´ ll let it slideit ´ s on the blade but let it slide offyou ´ ve got the brain but i ´ ll let it slidei ´ m giving my all so i ´ ll erase the oldyou give me the talk i ordered speech to goi ´ m hitting the wall but now i ´ m never sureyou ´ re watching me stall now watch me push for morehands are stained soul is chained mind is made upheart is tame chopped and changed messed my game uphands are stained soul is chained mind is made upheart is tame chopped and changed messed my game upi ´ m taking a side in this ´ battle royale ´ you ´ re taking it light i see the knives are outbut if you can find a way to call the drawi know you ´ ll decide to put this all on holdit ´ s on the blade but let it slide offyou ´ ve got the brain but i ´ ll let it slideit ´ s on the blade but let it slide offyou ´ ve got the brain but i ´ ll let it slidehands are stained soul is chained mind is made upheart is tame chopped and changed messed my game uphands are stained soul is chained mind is made upheart is tame chopped and changed messed my game upit ´ s on the blade but let it slide offyou ´ ve got the brain but i ´ ll let it slidei ´ m giving my all so i ´ ll erase the oldyou give me the talk i ordered speech to goi ´ m hitting the wall but now i ´ m never sureyou ´ re watching me stall now watch me push for morehands are stained soul is chained mind is made upheart is tame chopped and changed messed my game uphands are stained soul is chained mind is made up [ intro : ] ( allllllright ) in the sky it 's a bird , it 's a plane , nah who dat ? everybody want me to save them , i can 't do thatgotta little shine and they wonder where the lewd atthe life of an artist i had to pursue that [ verse 1 : ] superman all the time yea , true datthat 's why i laugh when they ask , " man where the suitat ? " i love my family love my friendsbut when it comes down to money see it all dependscause now i got new family , i got new friendsthat i never even seen before , where does it end ? see i got loved ones and i got enemiesbut at the end of the day i don 't know the identitiesso they love the entitiesand people befronted me for the famebreaking in the gamelife will never be the same ... it 'll never be the sameand they all like [ hook : ] you are ...
my ... superhero ( superhero ) i said ( i said ) you are ...
my ... superhero ( superhero ) [ verse 2 : ] i was gone for a minute , came back in a flashspit crack up a dude 's rock like dashany dame know i got game , go askthis is my true identity- no maskmost wish to get it and rub on a flaski wish to get it and rub on her asship-hop what i 'm talking bout , you ain 't onand a metaphor means i am hands onout for the green with a buzz like horneti ain 't rip the game yet , i just torn itsee the good guy gets the dameand if a shawty got a donk like lois lanei turn into the paraphilias from x-menyou ain 't get it ?
i 'm all about the brainstep to the mic he a beasthungry in the game still looking for a feastall about my dough on a rise like yeastand i 'm a keep going till a motha fucka deceasedsee i stood on the side humbly , like alfredbut now it 's time to jump in the bat outfitand i could give a damn if you doubt itcause when i hit the stage they shout ituh , yea they shout it ( what 'd they shout ? ) they shout [ hook : ] you are ...
my ... superhero ( superhero ) i said ( i said ) you are ...
my ... superhero ( superhero ) [ verse 3 : ] no the flow never awkward manstepped in the booth the like , i 'll be damnedkid opened his mouth and shocked me manand i get the honeys wetter than aqua-mansee that 's that sex appeali guess that 'll add another meal to the dealbut right now i 'm just trying to get a mealin the bat cave sharpen in the skillwith an iron-man mindset , they can never stealvillain on the mic though , yea i had to kill iti wrote this rhyme in braille just for you to feel itlet the flow pour for a minute but i gotta seal it [ outro : ] hopefully now ( hopefully now ) y 'all know megotta grip on the gamelike it was fresh , about to sewn it [ hook : ] you are ...
my ... superhero ( superhero ) i said ( i said ) you are ...
my ...
when i was 21it was a very good yearit was a very good yearfor city girlswho lived up the stairswith all that perfumed hairand it came undonewhen i was 21it was all a dream just a year agobussin ' tables and servin ' food but ya 'll don 't hear it thoughnow i 'm on another level but ya 'll aren 't near it thoughmy soul bleedin ' on the track , so spiritualit 's a blessing cause now rappin ' is my profession yoset to detonate , i 'm just waitin ' for my time to blowwhite boy at first glance but when i ryhme they knowrace don 't mean a fucking thing the second that i flowit 's been a year and everything i said would happened haswhile everybody that i know is out havin ' a blasti was right here in the studio bustin ' my assit 's been a year i 'm 21 but i feel ( 35 ) and now i got thisi taste the blood , no one can stop thissecond i drop this , die hard fans is finna cop thiswhile the rest of the world follows through fiber opticsi took my time , see i studied the game , learned how to rhymei was around drugs and gats , but never delved in crimehad other things in mind , so i began to grindfirst tape was a successlocally , i got pressbut i knew this one right here would run the world a mess , but i digressa year ago , i was a young 'un in his roomstaring out the window , lookin at the moon , knowing it 's coming soonbut today i bought this rocket ship and sonic boom hmmm , yeah !
( sinatra ) aight , yeah , yeah , homie i 'm comin 'i'm coming and i 'm never gonna give upmy mentality is making rappers feel likethey can never even live up to logicyou bust i dodge itthink you seein ' me , nah , you just miragin 'i'm gunnin , i 'm gunnin like a semi-automaticthat 's really equipped with lyricism , i 'll let ' em have iti blast it , any style that you comin ' at me withi master it , i slam mothafuckas that i 'm out on you bastards ( syke , i 'm just playin ' with y 'all ) yeah , you know i had to keep it goingkid rhymes that blow minds and see foreignreal recognize real and you lookin ' foreigni was spittin ' flows before i was even born in the womband i 'mma keep it up until the tomband as for the fame , yeah i know it 's coming sooncause i 'm goin ' in raw , finna bust up in your roomi hit a beat and it 's ergence to emerge in the gamepukin the dukin 's i 'm too sick to spit that yoga flamethe way i figure this is rap second renassaincespittin ' dirty sentences , so ill they affecting medicineha , i 'm havin ' sentence spittin ' fire like a demonas the internet i let my flow to get to streamin ' , i 'm beamin 'flawlessly listen in that women in yo head while you dreamin 'leo dicaprio flow all up in that bitch schemin 'tryna ' get you to buy that album , tryna get you feenin 'see my vision as i commentate ityou wanna see naked rerun of the bait but the hater ate itsuccess is truly overratedi 've seen caster with a blow up to pop and get deflatedsee yeah , you made it but all your fans hate itand it 's kinda lookin ' like you were sittin ' negotiatin 'when it comes down to the rap game you see i 'm intergratedhalf white half black i had it incorporatedget the money ( whoever did this is a real pro ) yeah , i 'm just a youngin ' with a dreamwith expenses ' til sixteenquite the microphone fiendnow the rap is not meanwhen i step up on the sceneall the girls see my scheme 'til i open up my mouth and they find out my lyrics meanhad i meet up with raheemdrinkin ' a whole teambut before i execute a perfect plan i gotta schemecause right now i 'm on the doloeverything about this tape i did it on the soloyeah , i said it 's hurricane logicremember they can 't dodge itthey gon ' be bumpin ' me from the burbs to the projectsi get on the mic and excite anybody around meyou 're probably wondering why the boy has not found meit 's not that easy , i gotta work from the groundbe the center of attention , look at the people around meblack on the inside , my outside ritzwhat 's a cracker without a cheesei gotta stack chips " would you care for a glass of grape juice ? " " nigga , what the fuck is juice ? "
i am not a poet , i am just a designer of wordsarchitecting sentences the way i form and mergeparagraphs together that force mc 's to submergewith an urge , to break free of this bi-racial jail cellfeast on my memories , please come and taste thispapa was a black man , mama was a racistgrowing up she called me nigga , kids called me crackerwhile the whites got whiter , and the blacks got blackeri was hurting , doing everything i canconceived as a white boy with the soul of a black mangod damn , looking up to malcolm xstudying his speeches , underlining texthow can i be white devil if my parents had sex 'cus i 'm black and i 'm whiteand i 'm proud of every word that i recitei know my roots , i know my pasti know the issue of my race ain 't gonna lastyo , we all breathe the same air and bleed the same bloodand when we die , the same ditch gets dug " i still have a dream , it is a dream teached within the american dreamthat one day , this nation will rise up , live out the true meaning of being free [ intro ] and to immediately start our showi want to bring out the host of tonight 's showyou all know hima very wonderful , wonderful personality of show business [ verse 1 : logic ] now ain 't it funny how the whole thing changedthey said i 'd never make it , now their words rearrangedi went from nothing to somethingbut i was something all alongwho you know on the come-up doing numbers in hong konggot fans in la , got fans in nygot fans down in atlanta and all the way to the chiwe world wide ( world wide ) world wide motherfuckerthey think we pay for promotions but our strength is in numbersthis is so comical , so hilariousall these stupid groupie bitches want to marry usand just a year ago i had to pay to performand now venues across the country dropping stacks to go oni 've been working for years and sometimes i get heatedbut those who don 't learn from history are doomed to repeat iti do it for the fansthey know what the message israttpack is world wide , don 't believe it check the messages [ phone calls from fans ] [ verse 2 : logic ] and now i 'm back but i 'mma switch the style upwe moving at high speed , these fuckers are dialed upyou know i formulate my words like a dissertationso let a brother proceed like mitigationi know you feel this deep inside of you , no penetrationwe got something for everybody but in my durationyou gotta crawl before you walki ball but you blogshare knowledge like it 's stockssince they * * * the apartback in the days and the 9 millimeter strays that grazedmy old apartmentto wherever i dreamed that 's where my heart wentnow , as a baby my mama was on the bottlecouldn 't wait ' till i was of the age to hit the lotoor the throtto and i 'm gonelike fuck the worldall i had was music and my girl 'till that shit fell apart and this life averellednever the less , i atest and " am i blessed ? "
hell yesoccasional stress , but i only bite what i can digestback in the day it was jeans and white tee 'snow that i got all the sponsors i can keep up with the companiesnow i 'm not bragging about material possessionsi 'm trying to teach you a lesson about business and progressionand what happens when you perfect the image in your professionain 't no second guessing , you know it 's all about perceptioni used to talk about the things i wasn 't really doingbut i had to visualize it before i started pursuing ityeah , huh , and now a motherfucker doing itbut business aside , it 's been a beautiful ridecause i do it for the fans and brush the haters asidei can 't wait for the day when i look through the eyes of my bridecause every lion needs its queen and make its children is pridebut these haters really don 't know what the message is ( don 't know what the message is ) once again , " don 't believe it ? " check the messages [ more phone calls from fans ] [ outro : logic ] i just want to take a moment , a moment of your time right nowi just want to thank everybodyi 'm nothing without my fansi 'm nothing without my teamit 's been a long journeyand this is just the beginningthank you all so muchi truly , i truly love you all from the bottom of my heartman this shit is crazysince day 1 , i been at iti know i probably sound real , real tiredbut , shit the whole rattpack been up for the like past 4 days trying to finish up this mixtapeit 's just been crazybut you already know what it islogic , young sinatrashout out to the bobby soxers , rattpack all day , visionaryi love ya 'll 1 : logic ] dear god , i think it 's time we had a conversationthese lonely nights is getting to me so my mind is racingi think about this life i live and all the shit i 'm facingmore secrets in my mind then a free masoni get lonely at times , and then i write these rhymesi 'm only human , i want to hit the club and fuck a dimebut i know that 's not the answer to my problemslord help me solve themdisintegrate and dissolve themlaying in bedwith a girl i 'm pretty sure is my nextcontemplating the sexwhile i think about my exam i wrong , dear god , am i wrong2 : logic ] dear god tell me am i wrongfor living the life of a king surrounded by these pawnsfans telling me i 'm the greatest but i never hear themcause i ain 't hit the pinnacle yeah i 'm still perseveringdemons whispering in my ear but no i never fear thempeople thinking they on his level they ain 't even near himi just want to spread positivitythrough lyrical abilitythey call it selling out but i just call it versatilityyeah , its my lifemy wrongs , and my rightsmy battle , my songs , and my fightsnow everybody want to come aroundtell me where was you last year when a brother was downnot a single one of you mother fuckers believed in the brandextended a handand now you want to be my mani think notyou quick to shape shift like ink blotsthe real dealer we cut classic no fitterswhat about the timei was nineand my mama almost murdered medon 't think i forgot that shit it still burdens meher bare hands tight around my throat i can 't breath i screamed i can 't breath mamadon 't you want me mamadon 't you love me mamawhat the fuckwhere was you here god tell me nowhows a brother supposed to stay sane tell me howwhy you let me live but let another diewhy you dry my tears but let another crygotta knowset to detonate i gotta blowthat shit for showi used to wonder why in the hell you would make me sufferbut now in the end i understand that it made me tougheri get up when im downhad enough almost drownedwhen shit roughi get tough [ intro ] [ verse 1 : logic ] let me kick rhymeslet me do it slowgotta get it every time you ain 't fuckin ' knowsee i 'm half whiteand half negroso i guess that 's why i got a big egoi got double the talent so i guess i 'm too nicetryna eat like two dykes cause i 'm famishedbetter yet i 'm in the depths of hungary like budapestand even when i 'm fed i 'm a keep going ' til the deathcall me the caller bomber [ ? ] cause i 'm blowing minds like osamathat 's word to obamaso much action within my words there ain 't no time fordramabringing wisdom like dalai lama you ain 't heard [ verse 2 : c dot castro ] my name is castrohotter than taking shots of tabascoi 'm the shitnever constipated i got mad flowhave you wondering why the fuck did he go do that for ? i don 't knoweven my homies say i 'm an assholemy style is so definedcause i 'm the definitionof truth you want proofwell then you better listeni 'm never dissin 'that 's a waste of timewhy waste an amazing rhymeon them when i can take it and make it minei 'll make it finehomie i don 't need no one 's helpi stay on dimes so you can call me rooseveltyeah , my flow is presidentiali rip it acapella i don 't need the instrumentalso try to sleep on mei leave you like tom in seattlemy wordplay is too vicious homieso you don 't wanna scrabbleyou don 't wanna battlemy shit will leave you without a paddlenow they all riding me somebody give me a saddle [ verse 3 : logic ] my wifey livin ' like oprahmatter of fact princess dianacause my first name is s-i-rand i don 't live like no bamasee i execute my emotion through perpetual grammarcause my stamina colder than canadaand hotter than hadesi spit more than babies infected with rabiesthey can 't get over the fact that i 'm under their skin i wrote a bunch of letters but , i thought it made melook like a fool so i never mailed any of them outi just wanna talk to you girl , mama you know a ...
ijust got something i wanna say ... baby do you rememberwarm summers and cold winterssongs by soul singers the feeling it still lingerselevated by my kiss as you melted between my fingersbaby girl , sometimes i wish that i could just rewindthis shit and take it backi had visions but they just faded blackmy train of thought is on a different trackwhen you 're in love it 's hard to separate fiction fromfactyour image in my head , and i 'm tryna get rid of thatbut you 're always on my mind like a fitted hatbaby girl , i wanna bring it back to puppy lovewhen you was sent from up above to care for mesaid that you 'd always be there for meand even though you 're gone , it 's like you never leftcause you always in my heart and still take away mybreathcan i love ? baby girl , can i love ? i said mama can i love ? yea , can i love ? i wanna laugh with yourun the water and take a bath with youstay up late and watch romantic comedieswhen it comes down to it you 're my hearts commodityyea , and now i 'm feeling like a foolwriting love letters that you 'll probably never getand right now , i love you more than i 'd like to admitbecause we 're separatedonto you this song is dedicatedi 'm love sick and i need you to medicate itfeeling devastatedi think about the pastand now i hate itcause all it proves it that whenever made ituh , see me and shorty got history like a textbookbut lately our position is changed like that sex bookms .
independent she the type to hold her ownlate night contemplating all alonethe kingdom is empty without the queen upon the thronecan i love ? baby girl can i love ? mama can i love ? i 'm a ask you can i love ? they say there 's many more in the seabut rather then go fish i play solitarei look around and see you everywherebut at the same you 're never therefingers through your hairreminiscing bout when and whereremember when we pulled up to that spot and did ittheresee i hate to watch you walk awaybut i love to watch you comebaby girl you 're so lustful then innocent when it 'sdonethe love we share is like a fine winecause no matter what happens , it only gets better withtimebaby girl you 're so fine that i had to take the timeto articulate this rhyme with you in mind , you 're sodivineain 't no matter who you 're fucking withor no matter who i 'm fucking with , you 'll still be minewill we make it ?
i don 't knowthe only thing that will tell us is timecan i love ? can i love ? baby girl can i love ?
i would like to make an announcementto everybody that said i wouldn 't amount to anythingin the minds of musici told you , what did i tell you ? didn 't i tell youcause i told yoummhmmand when did i tell youa long time agoand what did i saywhat happen when i told youexactly what just happenedi love to jump up on the trackso poetic with the champagnei 'm sipping got me spitting moeticthe second i aim i det itnow give me the creditcause i envision myself living in wealthbreakfast at tiffany 'slunch at louis v 'snow excuse me pleasei got dinner plans oaskillin ' with easeyoung sinatra got your girland now she a bobby soxergirl with nice clothes take some time , do it slow , tell me what you wantit 's about that time , girl you know ittell me what you wanti know you are my girl , tell me what you wantwhy act like you don 't want it girl , tell me what you wantbaby girl when it comes to women i 've been around the block a couple of timesbut you 're the only shorty that 's running circles in my mindand in this day and age that we live in , and its all definedwhy you so intellectual ?
why you so damn fine , nowhey girl , hey girl yeah i 'm trying to get itstop it with all of these games and tell me whattup with itjust take my hand , i 'll be your manwe surrounded by infidelity in this world that we live inbut i promise i never give in , that 's a giveni 'm living for you and anotherjust a brother trying to find a lover to cherish until he perishwith honeymoons on the stars and vacations in parisdon 't be embarrassed if you get addicted to these kinda thingsit 's the finer things , fuck the haters and what the drama bringsit ain 't nada , i supply the prada and diamond rings just as long as your heart sings , soand now we back at , shorty pussy like a drug , and she got me cornered like a crack addictgot my mind racing , eradictbetter yet its eroticlook at what you started , way she work it when she on top i might as well applaud itlord have mercy i 'm trying to get itrip it and split it , hell yeah you know i did itconverse then lay you down like a verse , i 'm trying to hit italways down to keep it a hunnitwith you my feet are never on the ground , the way i 'mma plummetheaded to the summit , so tell me are you really ' bout iti never doubt it , you 're the one that i needapart from you my emotions begin to recedeyou are everything that i have wanted and all that i needso shorty tell me how you feelin ' , worth feelin ' , looks killin 'i need it .
i 'm not tryna beat it and delete it [ hook x2 ] oh , i can 't wait to sayi can 't wait to saybitch i made ityeahh [ verse 1 ] just a youngin ' with a dreamboth his parents were some fiendsliving life behind the sceneshe was destined for that creamsmoking weed , sipping liquor , skipping schoolfalling quicker as he elevates with fameall the haters they gonna bickeryeah , but little did he knowhe was set to detonate and surely blowthat 's just how the story gomotivated just to flowwhite boy with the soul of a strong negrolet them know daddy black mamma white that 's how he rollwill he drink from the coloreds ? will he sip from the whites ? 1950s , why they fighting , fuck them both that shit ain 't rightnow , raised with killerswolves and drug dealersliving on food stamps and sleeping on dirty pillowsthinking [ hook x2 ] [ verse 2 ] i 'm living every rappers dreammotivated by my teamnow lets take it back a bit2006 , that was the scenespilling ink upon my paperhigh as a sky scrapernow i 'm spitting so hot that i 'm salivating vaporforced to be reckonedspitting at a million mother fucking words per secondwith punches like tekkenthe moment the mic beckonsthis is everything , all i gotand i 'mma be rhyming until they drop the casketi mastered impeccable flows that could not be capturedthe god of this rap shiti just raptured the gamei 'm the manand you might think i 'm cocky but that 's not mei say that i 'm the best to envision what i wantwhile you partied getting ' drunki wrote endlessly for monthsnow i got so many rhyme books they can 't fit inside my trunknow i got so many rhyme books they can 't fit inside my trunklike [ hook x2 ] [ verse 3 ] a natural born killeregotistical pistol packing mystical blood spillerwhen that full moon hitrun the mic and i 'mma leave the room litfor the people that never gave a shiti 'mma give the world hit after hitthis is my destinyrecipe for success is the best of methank god for blessing mewith a life in this hip-hop worldand the moment that it all unfurlain 't no way that i 'm looking backyou know i live for this , die for thislaugh for this and i cry for thiship-hop metropolisain 't no one toppin ' thishaters ain 't stoppin ' thismoment i 'm droppin ' thisfans will be coppin ' thistake a moment let it sit and hall of fame is where i 'm headedset to detonate and bitch i 'm blowing up like armageddon [ chorus : ] you already know what i been onyou know where i be atcause men lie , women lienumbers don 't i see that ?
( don 't i see that ? ) catch me in a private jetlike fuck it where the weed at ? and this flight attendant got the fattest assyou know i need that [ verse 1 : logic ] now these bitches say they love mebut they 're just obsessed with the imagenow if practice makes perfectthen this is a scrimmagecause i ain 't perfecti never said i wasbut now they 're hatingcause a brotha finally got some buzzthe things that i say ( say ) the places i 'm seeing ( seeing ) the people i talk toyou don 't know what i meaneven matters of loveit ain 't always as it seemsyeah there 's plenty in the seauntil you hit the mainstreamthe girl that i lovethe one i call my honeynow i wonder if she love me for meor for my fucking moneysometimes i think about the lovethat i had in the pasti truly miss itbut it just wasn 't destined to lastcause our separationlit a fire under my assand now i 'm gunning for the throneyeah that is my taskjust a youngin ' with a dreamthat acquired a teammotivated by bad bitchesand rockin supremenow the whole worldwonders what 's his next movethat all depends onwhat i feel that i need to improvetell me what you think of mei swear it doesn 't matterjust as long as i am happyand my pocket 's getting fatterjust watch me shatter the competitiongetting madder then all of them wishingyou couldn 't of done it like i done itbitch i run it , ah ! yeah you know i do itlike it ain 't never been donehit the vegas stripand blow a million euro just for funto be honest i may have embellishedthat last linechillin ' with a shortythat is so much more than fineat the penthouse poppin ' bottlesof that hundred thousand dollar winei got the connectmet ' em through the grape vine [ chorus : first four lines x2 ] you know what i been onyou know where i be atcause men lie , women lienumbers don 't i see that ?
( don 't i see that ? ) catch me in a private jetlike fuck it where the weed at ? and this flight attendant got the fattest assyou know i need thatnow these bitches say they love mebut they 're just obsessed with the imageyou know what i been onyou know where i be at [ verse 2 : logic ] yeah , it 's been a yearand everything i said would happen , hasnew school style with old school barslike alcatrazcause i ain 't neversecond guess this music shiti knew this shitwas all i ever wanted , all i ever hadborn famous now it 's just time to convince the worldditch cats , like drainageif they disrespect itdon 't step throughi paint pictures for your mindand bring it to life like cinematographysay it then i do itmy whole career is a prophecynow , better grab your jacketcause in this world we live in it 's cold outand when my album hits the storesit 's sold outlike these rapper 's careersi 'm the sum of our fearsfuck a grammy nominatedbitch , i made it and i 'm herei said it 's all about the fans , not about the recordsellsthey said it wouldn 't work , i told them go fuckthemselveswhy you think i 'm independent visionaries never failwhy , why you think i 'm independent visionaries neverfail [ chorus : first four lines x2 ] you know what i been onyou know where i be atcause men lie , women lienumbers don 't i see that ?
( don 't i see that ? ) catch me in a private jetlike fuck it where the weed at ? and this flight attendant got the fattest assyou know i need thatnow these bitches say they love mebut they 're just obsessed with the imageyou know what i been onyou know where i be atsinatra " you gotta realize , a lot of the time when i talkand i 'm talking extremely cocky , i 'm not talkingabout myself , i 'm talking about the work . " you know here i be at [ intro - renee soul ] [ vocals ] [ verse 1 - logic ] listenyeahlooki wish there wasn 't no systemi wish death on almost every other politiciani wish freedom for all my brothers stuck in prisoni wish people weren 't led by the televisioni wish the kids turned against the mediadon ’ t believe everything you read on wikipediaafrica i wish that we were feeding ya and not raping yawealthi wish that people thought about somebody else beforethemselflisten , then maybe then we ’ d all live good bif you need it then i got that the way it should belife ’ s nowhere near where it could besometimes i wish that i was lowkey and they come andtook mecause i feel kinda bad in my heart cause i feel thefirst bang so it ’ s hard yeah we bust caseitunes number 1 yeah forget pavesforget any of the offers that the labels make [ hook - renee soul ] i wishi wish that all my wrongs were rightand i wishi wish that i could change my lifeso my kidswould never have to sacrificelike i didso i giveand they livepeople have to realizethat we livewe ’ re living in some crazy timesand i wishi wish that we would all uniteand i wishi wish i wish i wish [ verse 2 - logic ] i wish for peace in every countryi wish for a stress-less life for my mummyi wish that no kid went hungrycause trust me , if i had enough moneyi ’ d fill up every hungry kid ’ s tummyi wish that money gets abolishedso anyone can give everything to their kids never can ’ tafford iti wish the whole world was able to live lawlessi wish that there wasn 't no such thing as being thepooresti wish we didn 't know what more isi wish that everyone saw everyone as beautiful andgorgeousi wish for a lot of thingsi wish that i was young and i still played forkennington kingslook , i don ’ t wish for the fame or the glamouri wish for everyone to understand ussee what i really wish for will probably never bei wish africa and palestine were free [ hook - renee soul ] i wishi wish that all my wrongs were rightand i wishi wish that i could change my lifeso my kidswould never have to sacrificelike i didso i giveand they livepeople have to realizethat we livewe ’ re living in some crazy timesand i wishi wish that we would all uniteand i wishi wish i wish i wish [ vocals ] [ verse 3 - lowkey ] i wish i could see freedom for the irishand i wish you could see deeper than my irisas i write this i wishpeople would define it in a way that wasn 't dictated bydividers and conquerorstell us conscious is what our genre isyou think their dominance is monstrousbut a bomb isn 't stronger than a continenttell us we ’ re incompetentthat ’ s nonsense we ’ re just onto themmy confidence is shocking themnot all open hands and open mouthsdry your tears cause the pioneers of global souththat is why we ’ re herenever will i appear on oprah ’ s couchonly in the press when the feds put my photo outthey wonder why the mad and young are grabbing guns ( why ? ) but you could speak with your hands if you didn ’ t havea tongueeven that ’ s better than sitting down sad and numbat times i wish i was gaberlunzie and i was about tohave a sonscratch that had a baby girllive twice and bring life to this crazy worldbe on rap congrats for the new arrivali ’ m stuck in britain accustomed to living suicidalbut not for much longeri realize that our culture is a weaponand nowadays i ’ m much strongersimply to exist is what i wish [ verse 1 : logic ] bitches be pressed for paperchillin ' with my homie sledro while he ignites the vaporlife is a bitch and you cannot escape herunless you talking suicidewhat the fuck you mean that i 'm changin ' ? cause i finally gotta little bit of money and a range in my drive waywith a rattpack smoking on zimbabwecrankin ' sinatra that my waybitches they love itvisionary nothin ' above itget shorties wet when i rub itcarbon copies they dub it ( hook x2 ) you used to hate itnow you love itsmile in my face ? i think nothin ' of ityea i 'll shake your handkill em ' with kindnesshomie this is young sinatra at his fuckin ' finest [ verse 2 : logic ] this is for my independent women that is runnin ' shit in high heelseducated in business but majored in sex appealmy shorty she gottasportin ' gucci louie and pradalooking beautiful in it all but i prefer nadayea , low maintenance and high scaletype of shorty that when you get locked up she pay the baili used to follow my dreams until i caught up to em 'people talking shit but pay attention to what we doin 'it 's never been donewatch me go platinum just for funfar from materialistic but let me stunt sonyou know what i be on , you know where i be atthe proof is within the numbers they slumber but now they reacti got 3 tapes , 0 tolerance one of the greatsput that shit together and what you get that 's where i 'm fromthe 301 , smoking joints with your girl for funstand strong and never run unless the po go for the gun like ( hook x2 ) [ verse 3 : logic ] we snatch it like interceptionmet the girl of my dreams , her love resembled inceptionher sign was a leome , her , and music that 's the perfect triospanish hunny we met in rio , future lookin cleobitches be bragginso much money my pants sagginvmg is up-to-date but these businessmen be lackin 'eve bit the apple , steve changed the worldgetting money like zuckerburg , my bank account is steroli am not defined by that in which i do possesscause all it takes is riches to get bitches to undressi need drive in a lady , not a girl that drive me crazyneed a girl that don 't care if a drive a honda or mercedesspit fire like hades , i infect it like rabiesit 's all that , shout out to them 90 's babiesnever hesitate to supply the heatwhat 6ix produces from his chest , we call that shit a heartbeati 'm a king , you fuckas my pawnsshortcut to the desktop , i am your newest iconthese bitches they love it , i truly can 't stress it enoughgirl got them daddy problems that 's why she be actin toughinnocent in person , but in the bed she love it roughrunning away from reality to sniff coke and puffso , let me get it the second i spit it you know that i did it all the people wanna come aroundthey used to hate it , but now they love the sound we should shine a light on , a light onand the book i write on , write on , it was right onthey lost and i found it , we leave ' em astoundedasking me how you so fly , yet you still so grounded ? i replied , i died inside , resurrected a beastleave ' em deceased , music 's in my genes like a creasegot it , capisce ? , hungry as hell trying to eat nowsuccess is the only thing that can complete usgrinding to free us , the beat knocking like a fetusclose your eyes , open up your ears so you can see thisnow i 've accepted i 'm not from the hoodcause selling crack and busting gats don 't make my raps goodsee this is me , l.o.g.i.c. repping md to the fullestpush us to the limit but never pull us nowi can 't wait ' til i see my name in neonthat fly shit i be on flowing for eonsevery day i take chances , celine dionsaid every day i take chances , celine dion ( let 's get it ) i 'm a diamond in a rough , but i shine like discossurrounded by greasy people like i doused them in criscoi haven 't shined yet , so tell me where does the rest go ? up a million percent until they finally hear this thoughbumping up in they city like , oh my god this gomy business getting better every year like fiscalfuck a pad and a pen , a mic my only utensili 'm original see but they trace like stencili stain in the game , but you fade like pencilbiting off of my rhymes , that ain 't even an insultcause you couldn 't produce , and in the end that shit 's your faultit takes 3 millions years for a diamond to shinei did it in 21 , see i 'm ahead of my timecause when i flow the crowd never roll cause i rockon the road to success , haters in my blind spot [ hook : childish gambino ] baby girl , you know what i wantlet me do it to ya , do it to yalet me do ya like uh , uh , uh.baby girl , you know what i wantlet me do it to ya , do it to yalet me do ya like uh , uh , uh . [ verse 1 : logic ] yeah , yeah , yeahlet me get it right nowlet me get you arousedbaby you been on my mind for a while nowi just wanna take some timewrite this rhymewith a beautiful woman like you in mindbaby be mineim trying to find what makes you tic , can we talkmaybe walk around the parktrust me girl i stand up hardall women ain 't bitches and allmen aren 't dawgs even though we barkcause i just want to get to know youmaybe run around and show youwhat a gentlemen isyeah , tell me what it doshawty i 'm coming for youain 't talking about sexi 'm talking about something from abovei 'm talking about lovetalking bout love , love , love ( love ) yeahnow that you know that i 'm for realit 's the perfect time to killany fear that you may havebaby girl i won 't be mad if you ain 't feeling itbut if you down you better believe i 'm killing ittake it to the crib on that late night drilling it [ hook ] [ verse 2 : logic ] wait a second , hold uphow you think i got this namei 'm all about the brainwhy you think they call me ( logic ) ok , condom in my pocketlay on the bed let me rock itplease don 't stop the spit from profitbut this right here on the housefuck the bed , we cutting on the floor then later on the couchladies give out ' till i gets it inmake you scream and make you grinfrom the very beginning from the second i 'm ini 'm trying to tease you let me please youbaby girl you know i need youdo you like it , never had itputting work with this one right hereyeah you know it 's just for fungive it to you like i was trying to conceive a soni gets it done then i 'm ready for moreain 't no telling where we 'll gobut one thing that i know fo shothis angel has no haloi don 't play no gamesyou can ask my ex i never eat the boxbut if i control her i may select some freaky shit to startthen bring it backwe can go for hours girl i never slepttell me how you want itface to face or rough and from the deckjust like that she gon ' overwork me if i let herbut i don 't give a damn i just wanna feel better ( ay ) uh uh uh , yeah , v 's up mafucker what it isvisionary we 're takin over the whole bizall over your city like we in the blow biznever go hollywood even though we in show bizbaby girl , i just wanna give it to you like you neverhad itwhen it comes to music i 'm an addictand killa , ain 't anotha illa for relida that 's wherethe dillarest in peace the best were beatsand i thought i 'd bring da heat like five ohputtin records right when i 'm in cabologic got more verses than the biblei 'm liable to murder anybody that pretend to be acontenderthere 's no better than us , the second we bust theyguts , you 'll trust but we get it incutting records like i give a damn , you can kill me butmy music it will live againratt pack , six months on a trackremedy on a visual , so you know it 's a rapi 'm murder , bringing shit that you ain 't never heard ofi 'm goin in raw no contraception , red dead redemption , no need to mentioni 'm a , murder to beat , homie word on the street , you abitchi plan to get rich cause my mix tape sound like analbum , your mix tape sound like shiti don 't give a damn , i am not cocky , i am balboa evenwhen the road is rockychillin " al moco " , ya you know i gotta go , west deerpark where i started ten years agoevery time i see a hata they wanna get physical , why ? cause when a girl see me we get physicalwhen i cuss a woman , i 'm a mac you 're a dell , pick upthe mic and i shall prevail [ x2 : ] when the tide is high and the lights are low , you feellike there 's no where to goand when the stars align and the sky explodes , i 'll be [ verse 1 : logic ] yeah , alright , yoa couple days agoi met the illest latinaher demeanor was unexplainableyou shoulda seen herthick thighs , nice assbody like an hourglassdidn 't hesitate to break a brothernext second she passedi was like , “ what 's up ? ” to which she replied “ how you doin ' ? ” i said de nada mommabut your beauty i 'm persuin 'and i said i 'm about to win the lotteryshe asks “ how ? ” i said , “ your seven digits right now ” and made her smilenow we conversingand she feelin ' my stylei can tell by the way she talkin 'that she down to go the milehad a couple drinksnow we headed back to her placethe shade of red from her lipstick all over my facei 'm tryin ' to hit , split itbaby girl you gonna let me get it ? she said , “ hold up ok , i don 't get down like that ” i said i know beautiful girlbut i get down like thatso let me heat it up , heat it upgo crazy and beat it up “ damn papi , how you even know i like it rough ? ” the way you was feelin ' on mewhen kissing revealed enoughi wanna scratch you , provoke youbite you , choke youbut just a little , bite your legsdick up in the middle “ hold up , wait a secondnigga , you gotta condom ? ” come on beautiful girl of course i 've got protectioni stay with magnums and i ain 't talkin ' smith and wessoni keep undressin 'girl i 'm about to teach you a lessonafter i hit it she says “ bobby i have a confessioni think i love you ! ” i said “ what the fuck ? ” thinkin ' to myselfdamn , i shoulda never cutkissed her on the cheekhit the lights , then she fell asleepso i snuck out the bathroom window on the creep , like ( the next day , the next day , the next day , the next day , yothe next day , the next day , the next ) [ verse 2 : logic ] yeah , yeah , yonow i 'm out the doordowntown is where i 'm about to gogot a meeting with my boy chrisabout a dope showso i hail a cab , jump inbut so does some girlbeautiful , pretty eyeswith luxurious curlsi said “ no fair ” she smiled and said “ why don 't we share ? ” what a successlookin ' at her chestthinkin ' if her breasts was a testshe would failfresh tip nailstype of ass make a brothertrain of thought derailas we conversei could tell that she feelin ' my styleget the pussy wetthat 's the missionas long as she listen to my wordsfeelin ' on the curvesonly lips i 'm thinkin ' bout kissin ' is hersi can barely fight the urgeonly thing that matter right nowis these two verbsi 'm talkin ' me and youso fine , i 'd think i 'd start seeing youher body was a work of artlike hieroglyphicstoo much detail to go into specificsi 'm diggin ' shortylike an archeologisttryin ' a bonesearchin ' for a queen to take the thronethe type of girl to loveand call her my own [ verse 3 : logic ] i 'm just a bachelor ( bachelor ) looking for a bachelorettebaby , maybe you can persuade meto give you loveyou couldn 't imagine yetkiss you on the neckthen i sedate the pussy like a vetgot the shorty rollin ' like a movie settake her to the rioi 'm not talking about g-burgi 'm talking de janeirospend deñero like its reverbexpansioncouple kids running round the mansionday dreamin 'getting ahead of my selfadvancin 'but , come on. girlnow come on give me lovei know we just met butromance is like a drugyou know we go togetherlike sympathy and hugsso i write this girla symphonyand tell her that i loveher everythinggirl i love your everythingyou know i love your everythingi said i love your everythingyeah , love your everything everybody like ( hey ! ) are you ready to go ?
ready to goeverybody like ( hey ! ) are you ready to go ?
ready to go ( hey ! )
are you ready to go ?
ready to goeverybody like ( hey ! ) are you ready to go ?
ready to goon my charlie sheen , homie , yes i am a winnerand when it comes to making music , i am no beginnerhit the stage and get wild , my braniac 's loudcall me 007 because i bond with the crowdyou shine like a star but i sun it50 keep it a 100 , homie you know i run itthe game needs change and logic can break a 100i had a shorty to bun it , until she didn 't want itso i focused on the flow and they gon ' put me on the mapwith a pocket full of change , every day a different dimeonly fuck with golden girls and i ain 't talking lifetimewhen i rhyme they up on me cause they seen how i 'mma shinenow you may be wondering how my raps rockcause i 'm so fifth key to the right of caps lockand when my tracks drop i 'mma be sipping cirocwith a whole skyline chilling in the backdropshit , nigga i was born readyand i swear i 'm what these rappers can 't bear , warn teddymy pro tools bouncing like a ' 64 chevyi 'm trying to win fast y 'all on that eddieplus carl and harriet , g is how i carry itbeen in it for miles , don 't believe ask dariusrunning this beach like chariots of firei aspire to be higher than these superficial liarsthe attire i acquire cost a grip , buy your pliersi 'm a ball out and die in maryland , len biasapply a sire to my name , yeah normoylei foil from slick talk , yeah trip of that oiltoying with girls feelings , lord forgive me i need healingi know you said it 's wrong but a long would make a killinghit the bong i hit the ceiling , hit the drink i hit the floor [ intro ] dead presidents iii , not to be confused with growing pains iiilogic this logic that , logic sick , logic wacklogic just don 't give a fuck , rattpack [ verse 1 : logic ] so many people think that rap is they calling , stop it just ceasegot-a-ca-peashe this is my house you fuckers just leasewaitin ' on a record deal that 's never cumming like a priestblack and white like a nunthese up-and-comers our sunlike the break of dawnso follow your father like an apostle paint pictures like a picasso while bitches uncover my fossilnever knowin what 's gon followhowever we never wallow in our sorrowjust pray for tomorrowat times my heart could be hallowemotions forced to be swallowedwhile neighborhood cats blast star gas like the apollothis is just a simple reminder as my lyrics force you to ponderlife 's a bitch and i heard she 'll fuck you so i 'm trying to find herone moment she 'll love you then swallow you whole like an anacondathe bitch is kinky , kind ofso with the lift of a pinky i 'mmadominate the world like my name is brainspit flame like propanebitches i overcame you know the nameink in my veins , inflames , and spew on the page , to numb the pain like novocain , mutha fucker [ hook ] i 'm out the presidents to represent me ( get money ) x8 [ verse 2 : logic ] allow me to kill it off the brink like no trafficmurderin ' every demographicpaint a picture using only blood to make sure that it 's graphicrip the mic to set the examplewhile all these mu-fuckers testin my patience like blood samplesconstant thoughts of suicide , where living in an area that 's do or diesociety expects us to fail , i 'm talking about you and ibut we persevere force fear enemies truse saying " we want nothing but peace and if not we leave em deceased " in your central nervous system like heroine reppin ' maryland to the fullestbustin like bullets that travel through chambers that are ignited by triggers don 't pull iti go from point a to point b by keeping it gain 't no killer but don 't push meif you grab the heat you a pussybuckle up and tell me how you feel , forget the steali have not a single enemyonly evil entities that have some how befriended me , in they mindcuz i am just a mortal man of peace that can rhymeand when it comes to dame 's i catch plane 'sthey catch feelinshaters keep my name in they mouth like villainshigh as a cellinya 'll really don 't know who your dealing with nowvisions of livin ' until my flesh is perished and my spirit is riseni 'm thankful for every breath i 'm givinfuck social divisionon the road to success and their ain 't no time for collisionpeople ask " how you get your flow so amazing " to which i reply " i have yet to scratch the surface like abrasions " haters taken shots but i never graze emnow if pro is the opposite of conwhat 's the opposite of pro-gressi love my country but that shit a messgrew up on sex and they that i can attestand how they wonder why i claim i 'm the fucking best [ hook ] i 'm out the presidents to represent me ( get money ) x8 [ verse 3 : logic ] now if i don 't believe it y 'all won 't perceive itnow run it back and retrieve ittill you receive it in your mother f * ckin mindonly 22 but i feel like i 'm 99back in 1999 that 's when i began to rhymesurrounded by narcotics and crime but you know i shinedaddy was smokin crack i was raised by a single momfastin every night i ain 't talking bout no ramadani was poor as fuck me and my momma didn 't have a dimeat 16 the school system dismissed him and wished him wellbut my momma never fought it , how the fuck could i prevail ? so i focused on this music and used it to create a life of my owni left home at 17shortly after my momma got stabbed by fucking around in the streetsbut she still breathin which gives me a reason to believe in a higher power instead of grievingso many rappers biting me you would think they was teethin aye girl [ hook ] aye girlit 's obvious you finei just want to know what 's deep inside your mindmaybe we can play girli hope you ain 't got no manif you do i understandbut i 'm tryna make plansthat body one of a kindi 'd be lyinif i said i wasn 't tryna make you minei can give you my number you can give me what ever we 'll have a hell of a time [ verse 1 : logic ] what up baby girl won 't you come herei put it on my life i seen you some wherewhere you stay at i 'll come there haain 't no stalking shiti just want to talk and shitmaybe grab a bite then after walk a biti just want to conversecome on baby ain 't no need to disperseshorty got that type of beauty that inspire this verseso whats upi 'd be lyin if i said i didn 't want a cup but it 's deeper then that getting knee deep in the cati 'm looking for that ride or die type of women it 's what everi can be your king you can be my corretaain 't no betterget you wetterfuck em allthink outside the box baby girl you know i ballyes you know i want it allso make that shit a doublethis is young sinatra and i 'm rising from the rubblepeople never say whats on there mind im like fuck a muzzlecause i got the feeling your the missing piece to my puzzle [ hook ] aye girlit 's obvious you finei just want to know what 's deep inside your mindmaybe we can play girli hope you ain 't got no manif you do i understandbut i 'm tryna make plansthat body one of a kindi 'd be lyinif i said i wasn 't tryna make you minei can give you my number you can give me what ever we 'll have a hell of a time [ verse 2 : logic ] what ever she wants i let her pick it like a fence from the suburbs everything coach but her plane ticket yea heardwe real all the time that 's my wordcatch me in the cut tryna book her like a nerdshe a red bone bobby soxeri had to stop her hashorty a dime so you know i 'm tryna cop herpop a bottle at our table periodicallynow check the science of that last line do it logicallyno stopin mei bet she would 've never guest i nevergraduatedcause the way i put my words together she infatuatedmama i don 't want know drama and i 'm seriouspause like a coma for i end it like a period nowgirl dont treat me like your ex manima beast on the track but if i am your next manima treat you tendertake it slow like one video renderi rememberwhen i seen you for the first timeit was special like when i wrote my first rhymeso if all i do is grind and never sleepthen how in the hell is me and the girl of my dreams supposed to meet [ hook ] aye girlit 's obvious you finei just want to know what 's deep inside your mindmaybe we can play girli hope you ain 't got no manif you do i understandbut i 'm tryna make plansthat body one of a kindi 'd be lyinif i said i wasn 't tryna make you mine [ hook ] life of a dontop 5 mc 's you gotta rewind methis what ya 'll been waitin ' for ain 't it. x2 [ verse 1 : logic ] chilling with my team counting this fucking moneyi stay with presidents like special agents honeyyou get it from the banki get it from the mintonly new bills call me the fresh princewe gon ' take over the whole worldreal all the timeratpack so thoroughused to rock stonesand now my shorty wearin ' pearlsfuck with grown woomen no time for these lil ' girlsi used to think about the things in which i never hadbut now whenever i reflect it only makes me gladi went from h.o.c. to chauffeurs in the hovbut hustlin ' tapes like they was keysso much paparazzi catch an epileptic seiz 'i used to struggle with this shit now i kill it with easestarted nation wide now i 'm tourin over seaslife of a don money blowing in the breeze [ hook ] [ verse 2 : logic ] they say time is money and i spend most of that one rhymin 'i eat filet mingnon reminisce when this was ramenyeah yo chain shinin ' ? but my aura is blindin 'i'm sick of us currencyi want millions and diamondsya 'll roll blunts , we roll cubanssound of my city so soothin 'check my method man bring the suits inhaters we leave em oozin 'headed to the top penthouse where we movin ha ! bless the mic with my presence and then i teach yalisten carefully as i beseech yaif i never meet yai hope my lyrics reach yasome like they keys white homie i prefer alicia we get higher and highercrazy bluelike st. elmo 's firelove 's so sharpand flatthat it 's hard to know just where you 're at [ verse 1 ] from the back to the front doordealers on the southside sellin on their front doorlittle bit of weed , little bit of crack , whatever you needwhile i 'm sellin out shows in the ice coldshout out to the homies in the front row with the blunt rolledthat waited for hours in the snow just to see me flowso you know i gotta stay after the show 'cuz if chi-town show love , i 'mma show loveoutside , no gloves in the wintertime 'cuz i 'm hungry like dinnertimestayin for every single one of my fansautographs ' til i couldn 't feel my handsjust a man with a plan , but you wouldn 't understandi get high by the notes , you get high by the gramwhile you smoke to thisreminisce when i wrote to thisup-and-comers take note to thiswe get it done on tour , waking up before the sundownlake shore drive shooting videoson the block getting spotted by them city hoes ( hey ! ) i know i never had to wonder if it 's love or notshout-out to the homies up at juggernautfor keeping a motherfucker fresh , hell yesno contest when it comes to gear in the city they be the bestlove my girls outgoing in my city , chibut it 's md ' til the day i die [ hook ] we get highoh so highthat my mind is in the skyshorties love it when i rub it 'cuz i never leave them drywe get highoh so highthat 's what they say in the chii get highyou get high 'cuz i 'm the one that supplies [ verse 2 ] shout-out to the bobby soxer girls that just love the flowchillin out late night with the weed lit blunt split and the paper rolledrattpack smoking loudpack yeah they ' bout thathaters talking shit yeah i never doubt thatwith the gps flow we re-route thatroad to riches we be ' bout thatgetting money like oprahfryin ' motherfuckers like okraput your l up if you 're a smokerfull-time tokereverything i got that 's what i 'm given no division ' til it 's oversleeping on the young sinatra like a sedativenow they on a brother 's dick , so repetitiveand they wonder why ( and they wonder why ) [ hyorin ] ooh yeah [ bora ] you see i don 't usually do this but ( [ hyorin ] oh woah ) [ bora ] i really need you tonight , sistar [ hyorin / soyou ] give it to me give it to megive it to me give it to me [ soyou ] seoreuni neomgi jeone gyeolhoneun halleunjisarangman juda dachin nae gaseum eotteokhae oh [ hyorin ] aekkujeun soriedo gaseumi apaseoajikdo eorigo yeoryeo sunjinhago yeoryeo nunmureun manheunjigive it to me oh babe give it to me [ ( bora ) oh baby , give it to me ] oh oh oh oh oh oh oh oh oh oh oh oh [ hyorin ] amuri wonhago aewonhaedonunmullo chaewojin binjariman [ soyou ] sarangeul dallan mariyageugeomyeon doendaneun mariya [ hyorin ] oh babe give it to me [ soyou ] achimi ogi jeone geudaegaolleunji babogachi neo hanal boneun na oh [ dasom ] unda haru jongil ulda dongi teundajeo haega darinji bami najinjido mollaoh babe give it to me i 'm sorry that 's all i needoh babe give it to me oh babe give it to megive it to me oh babe give it to me [ ( bora ) oh baby , give it to me ] oh oh oh oh oh oh oh oh oh oh oh oh [ hyorin ] amuri wonhago aewonhaedonunmullo chaewojin binjariman [ soyou ] sarangeul dallan mariyageugeomyeon doendaneun mariya [ hyorin ] oh babe give it to me [ bora ] susip beon subaek beoneul sseudaga tto jjijeobeorin pyeonjisarangeun wae ireoke naegeman mugeopjiunda haru jongil ulda dongi teundajeo haega darinji bami najinjido molla na nangive it to me oh babe give it to me [ ( hyorin ) oh baby , give it to me ] oh oh oh oh oh oh oh oh oh oh oh [ hyorin ] oh ( give it to me oh babe give it to megive it to me oh babe give it to me ) [ hyorin ] amuri wonhago aewonhaedonunmullo chaewojin binjariman [ soyou ] sarangeul dallan mariyageugeomyeon doendaneun mariya i can feel it nowit 's comin ' soonit is my worldmy sun and moononce upon a timethis world was lovebut now i knowthis is everything that i 've dreamed ofso take it slowor speed it upevery time i see youi just wanna beat it upmaybe notthat 's a liecome on baby girlthere ain 't no need to cryjust let me goor let me knowwhy the hell youwanna stick around forarms lengththat 's all you dodon 't get too closethat is the rulei remember when i mether back in high schoolscience classsittin ' on a stoolnow i 'm feelin 'feelin ' like a foolcuz i cut that tie months agothis girl is cruelmaybe notjust very lovelyno matter what she saysi know she still loves meso can i love ? i 've already askedwhoever knew matters of the heartwould be such a taskshe used to be my girlbut now she 's just the girl i 'm fuckin 'she used to mean the world to mebut now that world is nothin 'i would 've put a ring on that fingerbut i couldn 't afford itso i laced it with ribbonsshe adored itsometimes i wonderif she thinks of mebut my mind tells me to focuson work so instinctivelyhow could a pussy be that good ? cuz my feelings involvedtill my shorty evolvedand her feelings dissolvedbut that 's what happenswhen you find ' em youngtreat ' em like royalty and they will runsearchin ' the world for perfect loveand realize you 're the onebut they fucked upcuz now that shit is donethis is a letter to the woman of my dreamslove what she bringsso listen baby girlcuz everything ain 't what it seemsyou either know me nowor imma meet you after famebut one things for sureyour life will never be the samecuz you gon ' be my wife and my mistressso understand now i can 't be there for every christmasi love you more than anything but i can never risk this [ intro : ] yeahi 'm a just go in on this joint right now for y 'allall my lyricism heads where y 'all at ? [ verse 1 : ] i spit fifties and shit hundredsdo shit that 's undidspontaneously combust in these bitches gutsi get em wet , no need to touchbreak they back like dutcheskeep em close like the toast i clutchnever the lessi 'm never depressedi keep feelings suppressedone of the best but need to listen if i 'm a progressi 'm ready to live , i 'm ready to die , i 'm ready to ridefor rapi said it on a record , now i can 't take it backstop , i shut it down like a bloodclotsmoke emcees , like a fuckin bumbaclotmic check , i come to catch wreckdeath before dishonor so i 'm coming for your necki pop emcees like hymensy 'all glass posing in stubs but i 'm a diamondi reckon you need to listeni 'm never dissin 'unless your shit is wack , i 'll beat you into submissioncatch me fishincause i 'm eating for a lifetimewisdom in my mindi 'm a star watch me shinefucking your bitch from behindrecord it and hit rewindi 'm nasty , construct rhymes like rhinoplastya hip-hop statuterhymes coming at you , god bless youwhen i kick wisdom it never stress you or test youunless you a dumb motherfuckerwe gon ' get into it like this [ verse 2 : ] said this is mathematic tacticsmurder this rap shitintravenously inject my prophylacticsinhale my words like a fresh batch of vickssimilar to black ice cause the flow so slickwhat 's up , rappers hear the rhyme they slit they wristsdo a whole ' lotta talking , no rapping like fisticuffsyeah , turn my headphones upthat 's all you sayin ' but i 'm sprayin ' and i can 't getenoughraw , rugged and roughmy alter ego , mr.toughi 'll call your bluffface to face never snuffi murder you with predicate poetic balletic shitno mercy cause if i grip the mic they might curse meda vinci flowbefore i grip the mic i 'm in controlbefore i manifested tendons i was rhyming as a embryoliving in vertigohalf of these fuckers don 't knowit 's logic step into the mind of a young manand if you don 't then i don 't really give a damnall i wanna do is make you understandbut if you don 't wanna listen i guess you ain 't a part of the plansorry if i digress all i ever wanted was to be the bestthrough lyricism to put your mind to the teststayin ' up late night no restfeelin ' bulletproof , no vestbut i confess my minds a mess living in world of stress i digestbut i gotta keep grinding cause everyday success what i 'm findingand i don 't give a damn if you hate on mecause when i blow what you gonna say homie ? heh , not a god damn thingbut that 's enough of that i 'mma let my home girl singknocked down round for roundyou 're feeling like your shot downon the groundwhen will the fantasy end ? when will the heaven begin ?
( yeah ) knocked down round for roundyou 're feeling like your shot downon the groundwhen will the fantasy end ? when will the heaven begin ?
( yeah ) all i think about is musicdon 't get me wrong i think of other things but this how i fuse itso the whole wide world can use itwhen you feel like you just might lose it , take a breath homie don 't confuse ittake a step in the mind of logicas long as you don 't abuse itso let me break it down for the whole worldlike i broke it down for my old girli can 't deal with your bullshit no moregotta let it go let it unfurlcause i remember the timewhen i was living sublime wanted to make a living off of my rhymesbut the whole world told me never mindi 'm a star how could i not shineknocked down round for roundyou 're feeling like your shot downon the groundwhen will the fantasy end ? when will the heaven begin ?
( yeah ) knocked down round for roundyou 're feeling like your shot downon the groundwhen will the fantasy end ? when will the heaven begin ?
( yeah ) i just wanna take it to another level that i 've never even been onso i can sit on every single piece of paper that i put a pen onand when i been on for like 10 years , i 'mma do it better than anybody before meso the whole wide world will adore me and no need to assure meand why you wonder why i 'm rapping so fast ? it 's cos i gotta lot of things on my mindthat wanna come out at the same timein other words i 'm racing , i used to pursue my dreams , but now they 're realityin it is what i 'm chasingwhy are we on this earth ?
why must we feel pain ? why does everybody feel the need to judge one another when we 're all the same ? knocked down round for roundyou 're feeling like your shot downon the groundwhen will the fantasy end ? when will the heaven begin ?
( yeah ) knocked down round for roundyou 're feeling like your shot downon the groundwhen will the fantasy end ?
i know what it 's liketo be all , all depressedand not wanna go out andand live life andthat 's not healthy manyou can 't be living like that what 's wrong with you ? yeah hey you , yeah youyea yea uh huhi know you been feeling downthere 's something 's pissin you offand something 's wrong- you know whatwe 're gonna , i 'm gonna cheer you upi 'm gonna help you outjust go ahead and justand just listen alright ? here we gohi there hey friend how are youcheer on up you superstar youdon 't let them try youfuck that shitdon 't let them deny youcause you 're gonna make it some dayand you 're gonna make it some wayno more waitin for the busand no more riding on the subwaylive life how you want toso get on up now go get out thereface your fearsno need to be scaredyou better rebeland if they hate you give ' em hellno more hiding in your sheeeeellcause we are not definedby how hard we fallso dust yourself off and stand tallcuz you can make itof this im surejust spread your wingsand you will soari knowi know , knowthat i 'm gonna blowyou awayand when i wake upi 'm gonna shake upthe fuckin ' worldand you 're gonna love meyou 're gonna take meas i am ( as i am ) and not a single one of youcan tell me noohhhh yeai 'mma go where nobody before me has goneand i know that the journey is gonna be longlivin ' life like a mademan like a doni was in the dark but now with the lights onit 's real hard on the rise to famecause everybody 's mad and you 're the one to blameand just last year you didn 't know my name - logicnow they all demand itused to hate me and i can 't stand itcuz now you love me you so damn manicsaid i 'll never make it said i 'll failmy shit was simplemotherfucker i selli know i 'm gonna prevaileyes on the prize right on my trailmiddle finger to the haters that are on my tailcause i got heart boy i got spunkfeelin ' just like jordan before the dunkand if you fuck around i 'mma put you in the trunk * ha * i 'm just playin aroundwait for the sound ( wait for the sound ) wait for the sound ( wait for the sound ) oooowwwwwwi knowi know knowthat i 'm gonna blowyou awayand when i wake upi 'm gonna shake upthe fuckin ' worldand you 're gonna love meyou 're gonna take meas i am ( as i am ) and not a single one of youcan tell me noohhhhh yeaaai swear to god that i love the life i liveand i 'm grateful for every breathe it givesi remember thinkin ' something 's got to givenew day but it all just feels the sameno clouds but i can feel the rainpointin ' fingers lookin ' for someone to blame ( lookin ' for someone to blame ) ' til i came across my own namei wasn 't in control of my destinyfeelin ' empty thinkin where 's the rest of mei gotta make it but i need the recipeonly then will i find the best of mei didn 't wanna listen , didn 't give a fucki was so selfish , i was so stuckcleanin up food , for a little buckthen i quit that , livin ' on lucki was so lost , at what costwhy be the worker , when you could be the bossstill doin ' wrong , trynna live rightget my mind righteous , man i wanna fightshit gettin tight , man that ain 't rightand my girl left , so i just mightso i just mightgo home to where the , wild things roam , and uhhappiness last , and uhhaters kiss my aaaaaaaaaaaa ( ss ) go home to where the , wild things roam , and uhhappiness last , and uh watch my back , so i make sureyou 're right behind me as beforeyesterday , the night before tomorrowdry my eyes so you won 't knowdry my eyes so i won 't showi know you 're right behind me ... won 't you let me go , let me go tonightwon 't you let me go , let me go tonightwon 't you let me go , let me go tonightwon 't you let me go , let me go tonightwon 't you let me go , let me go tonightwon 't you let me go , let me go tonightyeah , i know we seen a lot of shit in the time we 've been togetherthought we knew it all but couldn 't predict the weatheri think about you and imagine a house and some kidsi wonder if you found another and it 's all hissee baby girl , i know you love me even through the liescause honesty and truth is always found within your eyessometimes i see you when you love it but you fear it cause you try your hardest to run but still feel me in your spirit baby girl i know you hear itmy heart is calling for you tonightand even though the time is wrong i know the love is rightthat 's why there 's so much emotion when i reciteanything about this angel that lost its sightbaby you were my everything , but you playing gamesfucking around got me feeling like blowing my brainsbut you ain 't worth the satisfaction cause all you do is speak of love but never lead to actioni used to count the days with you but now i just subtract themlet me go , let me go tonightlet me go , let me go tonightlet me go , let me go tonightlet me go , let me go tonightlet me go , let me go tonightlet me go , let me go tonightyou were my best friend but then you out mei never gave you a reason not to trust me but then you doubt meso in the end it only shows that you don 't give a fuck about mei know you hearing the emotion that 's deep in this letter but i don 't give a shit about what you thinki write it so that the people can feel better that i 've gone through what i 've gone throughmemories of a perfect love that 's broken and haunt youand if you think i write this song to taunt youi don 't want you , i want the memory of who you were and what it was to wake up everydayand have an endless love with an angel from up abovebut now it would seem my baby girl has fallenand another path within my life is callingcause i put everything below you , ( everything below you ) even my music , and when you left me i didn 't lose iti channeled deep within emotions and used itmy heart you broke it and bruised it " ayo , shout out to black diamond .
i got them nikes on my feet as we speak , homie .
shout out to mac ...
miller ... " all i do is rhyme , all i do is get this moneyall i do is grind , play shows and chill with honeysall i do is shine , tour the world , ain 't it funny ? i 'm one of a kindmy name is logic , if you don 't know by now , i 'm always on my grindand at this moment in time , i 'm on a roll when i write this rhymesitting behind raheem devaughn while he 's passed out 'bout to hit the station ' fore our gas is outlook outside the window , i see shorties with they asses outoh my , good god you know we flythey dreaming out the window watch how buildings pass me bysee i ain 't signed but at this point in timei feeling like the 3-6-8thwonder of the world , just might steal your girlall i do is rhyme and get money , that 's my repertoireholla at honeys , " voulez-vous voucher avec moi , ce soir ? " baby what 's the deal , have you ever heard of some shit so real ? ( cudi what up ? )
it 's going down , feeling like a millionaireriding with the top down , while the rest of the world just starethis is the joint that when you hear it you like , " that 's my shit ! " maybe at a house party while you getting litor while you cruising round town riding in a whipone thing 's for sure , you better get all of your friends hipif a shorty like my music , then she a ( bobbysoxer ) got a booty , know how to use it , homie yes i rocks herthe second i jump on a stage , i 'm rocking it , ain 't nobody stopping itwhoever goes on after me , i 'm sorry , you ain 't topping itit 's going down , feeling like a millionaireriding with the top down , while the rest of the world just stareever since i was a youngin i knew i 'd break in the gamewhile you worshipped other rappers that leave you less entertainedi was strategizing , before the people knew my namefame , but i sell it sane on the road to successbumping jay in the h.o.v. lanesearching for wisdom in women but only getting brainyo quiero dormir contigo mi amorcitoi know we fight , but that 's poquito i am literally in a air right nowreppin ' every store thisfirst class , i am so new at thisused to ride a metro , now that shit is retrolike the infrareds on my feet baby lets gosinatra what they know me by , logic what they call megotta catch a flight but the fans wanna stall melife of a don , change is gone , always in the lab with the fresh kicks oni 'm at the mgm rockin ' mcmbobbysoxer on my own it 's only 10 pmgot my rattpack with me goin ' ham at the hotelname brand , everything fuck a wholesaleno , i am no materialistici was broke my whole life and no i don 't miss itlast seven years of my life was in the labworkin ' every day , givin ' it everything i hadnow that a brother is finally recognizedi will not live a lie like hypnotizedeverybody be sure , i will always want moredoes anybody make real shit anymore ? grind never stops like i 'm running from the copsit 's hard to stay humble when your force fed propsbut i don 't give a damn , i am just a mani am not more important than any one of my fansfirst name bobbysaw i 'm all about the hundredswork so hard everybody think i 'm bluntin 'gunnin ' hard with the mask and glockand i 'ma stay with that shit click til the casket dropsfinna ' blow in the next three years topstalkin ' world wide not just hip hoprappers now days so flip floptalk about you around the worldmotherfucker kick rocksi am on the come up , headed to the topreppin ' md and never will i stopme and the crew v 's up visionary what it dostep to the mic , lyricism unsewwe go hard , only on campus when i wanna study abroadguess that 's why they wonder if i go thereall the groupie bitches wanna put their fingers through my haircan 't feed the thirst , chill out woah therelet me get it , let me bring it backhaters talkin ' shit but i can 't watch shit when they doin ' thatyes i am presumin ' thatnumber one album , worldwide and fuck it will i doubt ' em people always quick to make assumptions and judgesomeone and they never really been in that situationthemselvesim just a spectator looking inbut i can tell you how i think things should 've beenand all the reasons why the world is where it is todayplease listen to my words , what i have to sayyou see in gaza they fighting for landyou see they need this land cause its a part of theirplan , understandthe jews needed a place after hitlerbut they got about three quarters of palestinian landpalestinians then had to make refugesin places like lebanonin places where none of them had ever gonethousands were massacred , for not leavingsee i would do the same kill me i 'd die believingi understand the mind of a man who commit suicidebut don 't agree with any innocent that has to dieand what 's gonna happen after this , will they stop withthe gaza strip ? i don 't think soi sat with you to learnyou told me you where not meant to go to israel untilthe profit returni said is this true , you told me go and read the torahcause if it 's true then there following another orderhow can a nation that knows what its like to beslaughtered , go and do the same to someone else ( its a simple question that they gotta sit down and askthemselves ) im just a spectator looking inbut i can tell you how i think things should 've beencouple reasons why the world is where it is todayplease listen to my words , what i have to sayi dont know everything and never will i claim to knowwhat our purposes and what we really need to growbut i do know we 're dying for a common causea global world that is well known , wari 've been to africa and seen a grown man on the floordisabled to the point i couldn 't look anymorea real begger , in a real state of povertybut he prays everyday , so he knows that there 's gottabe another lifewhere he can live as a strong manand the ownership of africa doesn 't end up in the wronghands , western palmsbuying and destroying people just to trade armsdoes someone tell me why africa is still survivingthe whole land was a resource plus they got diamondsused to be able to run your hand through the sandand get a handfull of diamonds do you understandhow precious is the land if it 's like thatyou see it 's wrong to say it was taken by the white manit was taken by the power hungryand the people that never saw the beauty of africa fam , they only saw the moneyto them it was the land of opportunityits terrorism when its done by even you and metreat these words like my eulogyand remember that i die be exactly what i chose to beinshalah we all can seethat god is the goodness in you and meno religion has ownershipsee the qur 'an and the bible and the torah were wrotewith inksee i think the masses are miss-educatedsee most of the politicians were born racistsee it 's obvious that somehow we are all relatedmillions of years back before we seperatedi heard tony benn say it in a speech i 'm on the come upanything that ya 'll do i 'm one upya 'll grind till like 3 in the morningi grind till the sun uphomie that 's dedicationthis world is what i 'm facingi only hope in the end that they all love and embrace me ( i 'm trying to write my wrongs , but its funny these same wrongs helped me write this song ) momma i 'm sorry that i left at 17 ( i apologize a trillion times ) everything ain 't what it seem when you try and follow your dreamsfirst you saw the bigger picturenow you see behind the scenesyou though everything was sweetnow you see that shit is meangot a taste now you a fiendbeen into it since you been a teenyeah he nice so all his friends say he gon ' blow like hiroshimeyes on the prize like the baddest bitch you ever seenat home late night , chillin , envisioninghimself on the cover of vibe magazinebut everything ain 't what it seemsthough it seem like he gon ' blowwill he make it ? maybe sotoo be honest i don 't knowhe got lyrics , he got flowbut it takes so much mo 'so much loveso much painwith such little time to growyeah we love it when he smilebut hate it when he frownremember when that girl turned his world upside downbut it made his music betterbrought emotion made it clevernow we growing everydaybut he hungry try to eatbrain like an ekg the way that he study the beatnow we know that he gon ' make it and he won 't accept defeatnow i ain 't tryin to be meannow i ain 't tryin to be meanbut everything ain 't what it seemso many times did i design a rhyme to blow your mind ? cos i know that i wasn 't destined to live a life of crimei remember christmas 's with no presentsi use to fear my future now i dread my adolescenceliving a life of logicbut it ain 't what it 's cut out to becos if i couldn 't rap ya 'll wouldn 't give a fuck about mehip hop is politicsfilled with nothing but strife and stresstime is money and it 's hard to investstep on the stage i get the honeys so wetrockin thousand dollar tuxes sippin on nothing but moetthinking i 'm so set but really i ain 't done shit yetthis game is war and in my mind i 'm like a vietnam vetnow i 'm on the come upanything that ya 'll do i 'll one upya 'll grind till 3 in the morning ; i grind till the sun uphomie that 's dedicationthis world is what i 'm facingi only hope in the end that they all love and embrace emfor the motherfuckers that hated i made itslowly elevated , escalated onto another level hamy flow is crack the game is whitney yeahfame is bobby on their first date it ain 't hit me yetvisualizing driving down the horizonwhile you despising the fact that i 'm risingso much hate within this world this shit is so traumatizingsteppin to me yeah you better be alphabetically readyaim steadylyricism sharp as machetei got it alreadysee i was born to sell recordsyou was destined to sell tunesall up your headphoneskilling booths like cellphones ( i got it ) cos everything ain 't what is seemsit ain 't just him it takes a teamat the ten headed to the zone in his mug meanyeah the quarterback shines but not without a sense of safetyso truly he is me and motherfucker you can 't face menow i 've had a lot of doubti thought i had to throw that outcos i find that they listen when i rhyme not when i shoutand right now shit is rockywith me and my girlsee music is my moon but this shawty is my worldthink about you all the timeturn that shit into a rhymecos sometimes you can ignore mebut the beat listens just finetell me do you even knowif you truly want to growhate letters when i 'm writing love jones all i knowcos everything ain 't what it seemsliving a life you only dream aboutflow angelic but now it 's time to bring the demon outcan you feel me ? i said it 's hard being a saint inside a sinner 's bodyyou know its hard living as logic after living as bobbythis is the life i depictedas a child i picked itfeeling conflictedto music i am addictednot one of ya 'll can predict itso many bars i 'm feeling convictednow writing like a felony i 'm selling homie who you tellingwhile ya 'll do everything by the book fuck that i 'm rebellingbitch i 'm on another levela level you ain 't seena level that is truly only deemed for a kingthe second you listen it 's my mission to murder any renditionbusting with precisionif you in my vision i 'm never missinglogic administer sinister s like a minister for the listener hello ? yes , hi is this logic ? yeah .
this is logic .
what 's up ? hi logic .
how ya doing ? this is marty randoff , big time , big league , record executivesuper white guy afficionado and i just uh want to talk to you about a couple things [ logic : ] alright m 'am , what is this regarding exactly ? basically , what we want to do is we want to take logicwe want to take everything about youand we want to take it and put it on a bigger levelhow that sounds ? i mean that sounds great manwhat do you have in mind ? basically , ok you know that whole thing that compiles you ? the whole young sinatra , smooth , intellectual lyrics , the realism of who you are and how you project that , everything that you do with your music ? yeah .
man thanks .
i 'm glad you spotted that outbasically , what we 're going to do is get rid of thatok ?
we want to put you in the limelight with a bunch of bitches and popping bottlescause nobody cares about that stuffwhat ? yeah .
i know right ? it sounds amazingmaybe you might be aware of some previous work that we 've donebasically what we want to do is have nobody remember you in five yearsi don 't know mani really don 't knowhave you ever heard of lil lollipop ? or little chetta ? na .
na , man i haven 'texactly that 's the pointwait where did you say you were calling from again ? oh i 'm just calling from uh ...
sell out recordswhat ?
sell out records ? yeahoh my godwait like you like sell out stadiums and stuff ? nah mansell out like you like you knowyou knowthis is what it is man , illuminatiwhat illuminati ? yes logicit 's your time now [ laughing ] yo man who put you up to this lembo ? uh no. nouh i don 't know where else to looklook just sign with usnah i 'm straight braoh .
hello ?
hello ? damn it .
he hung up lizzy yarnold 's stunning start to the skeleton bob season continued at the weekend as she struck gold in lake placid to leave her on top of ...
youth rugby : sevenoaks u10s impressed in the qualifying round of the allianz cup on the new all-weather pitch of premiership team saracens.t ...
one truckload of wheat – $ 8,800 , a tanker of diesel fuel – $ 28,000 , one load of cattle – $ 35,000 .
a busload of students – priceless .
beriziky keeps a close watch on the bni sale in madagascar but in a surprising development , aslı was cleared of doping violations by taf in december .
aslı had provisionally been suspended by the federation in may after abnormalities were detected in her biological passport , resulting in her missing the world championships in moscow in august .
cairo is doing its utmost to have a say in the construction of a 6,000 mw power plant , but the egyptians may not succeed . ( ... )
a full week of violent riots in several towns throughout the country against the reduction in subsidies to oil products demanded by the imf at the end of september was all that was needed to smash to smithereens the illusion of a united regime in sudan . ( ... )
new finds by oil companies in sudan have been few and far between but star oil seems to be pulling it off . ( ... )
turf wars at the top in sudan ’ s oil sector tend to result in a lot of quick turnover ( ... )
former oil adviser to nigerian presidents olusegun obasanjo , umaru yar ’ adua and ( ... )
to someone who has never injected illicit drugs , all syringes may look similar , but recent research out of the us shows differences in design can be “ dramatic ” and may slow the spread of hiv infections .
the complete genome sequence of a neanderthal from the altai mountains russiarussiatatar-bashkirnorth caucasusputin vows to annihilate terroristsmuslims in daghestan , azerbaijan call for boycott of new year celebrations eastern europebelarusmoldovaukrainebelarusians jailed for spyingklitschko : peaceful protests to go on press roomuse our contentcontact rfe / rlpress releasesrfe / rl expertsjournalists in troublethe rundown aboutmission statementhistory / archivescorporate governanceinternships / fellowshipsfast facts & faqvisit rfe / rl the adages " no rest for the weary " and " no rest for the wicked " are well known .
keeping their eye on the prize that may be down the road just a bit is the goal for the comets boys hoops team ...
saint vincent and the grenadines crude oil consumption by year restaurants and plumbers to vets in your area .
it 's all here , decided you 'd like a pet , or need a local vet for the pet you we also have pet of the month !
win a 3kg bag of cat or looking for a place to eat or a takeaway meal ?
use tasty to search for the best food in kent ...
follow our two view listings for all age groups to help you find the best & ldquo ; willed by god in the very act of creation , marriage and the family are interiorly ordained to fulfillment in christ and have need of his graces in order to be healed from the wounds of sin and restored to their ’ beginning , ’ that is , to full understanding and the full realization of god ’ s plan . & rdquo ; ( john paul ii , familiaris consortio # 3 ) an initiative of the united states conference of catholic bishops football : sevenoaks town boss paul lansdale is happy his side are taking on one of the teams at the sharp end of the league this weekend as ...
confusingly the land has been included in the current amendment to the urban plan in order to make the land urbanisable and therefore the properties legal .
ibd stock checkup - givesyou a simple overall rating for safe environment > charter for theprotection of children and young peopleclick here to view the charter parnell and his supporters say the answer to alaska ’ s woes is simple : cut taxes .
“ this is alaska ’ s most important decision in the last half of the century , ” said dan donkel , owner of donkel oil and gas , an independent producer .
“ it effectively gives away alaska ’ s oil , ” said ray metcalfe , a former republican legislator who is spearheading a petition effort that would let alaskans vote on the tax break on the 2014 ballot .
“ those who are unfamiliar with the shortcomings of the government take as a criterion tend to overuse it , ” the interior-commissioned report says .
parnell ’ s critics , however , point out the rate of alaska ’ s production decline has slowed slightly in recent years , while oil and gas employment has increased as signs that alaska ’ s fate under palin ’ s brainchild is not all doom and gloom .
meanwhile , wielechowski remains optimistic that improvements in technology and new discoveries of unconventional oil and gas open up taps on the north slope , helping alaska refill its coffers and keep its permanent fund permanent .
“ with or without a tax cut , ” wielechowski said , “ you ’ re going to see production ramp up . ”
between the lakes and pines , the castle is the perfect place to have fun , think about who god is and what effect he has in your life .
jesus calls everyone to follow him .
come and see if he is calling you to follow him as a priest. machines or photo studios at the new airport in bangkok so in the lord .
he was then , and is now , a he is one who gives witness to it in his taking notes just to get in all of his stories. can think of or explain as to why he let me we are a vatican ii church with a lot of work in front of us .
so you can either get family .
in 1975 , war broke out between the plo and lebanon .
on 6 may 1976 , i and one point , i heard the enemy sing .
i felt a presence and knelt .
i prayed to our lady and offered myself to be the first to be hit .
we fought until we ran out the testimony of the former female soldier is one of 12 found in tenacemente donne ( tenaciously women , published by edizioni paoline ) , co-authored by journalists in telling her story , jocelyne remembered the time when , not yet 18 , she took ii in his trip to beirut in 1997 , and converted , a process that culminated in the the book tells stories of women " who are active amid the rubbles of who " bear witness to the creative beauty of faith , " whether acting " on the world if you do use a debit card , change your pin code .
think of your pin like an online password- the older and more used it is , the higher the likelihood that it can be cloned or stolen .
there ’ s no way bodenheimer said he ’ d be able to afford it as it is. assistance may qualify for up to $ 17.50 off monthly bill and great quest to develop botswana 's sua pan brownfield potash project i pledge to be a part of the solution rather than contribute to the problem .
i pledge to step up and stop bullying in my school and neighborhood .
is there a state model policy i can use to create anti-bullying policies at my school or district ?
the diocese of des moines has 81 parishes in central and southwest iowa .
des moines - st theresa of the child jesus parish pennsylvania ’ s growth lags mon dec 30 , 2013 7 : 24 pm est puttin ’ on the glitz : for new year ’ s eve , restaurants glam up menus mon dec 30 , 2013 7 : 24 pm est iffy forecast for thursday : plowable amount of snow or not much mon dec 30 , 2013 5 : 24 pm est a list of new years eve events for the midstate mon dec 30 , 2013 1 : 24 pm est raising the bar : abusing the power of attorney sun dec 29 , 2013 7 : 24 pm est hilton does test-drop of new strawberry in advance of nye mon dec 30 , 2013 7 : 24 pm est fired for refusing flu shot mon dec 30 , 2013 1 : 24 pm est philadelphia ’ s businessperson of the year is ...
mon dec 30 , 2013 1 : 24 pm est stores stocking eagles ’ nfc east champs ’ merchandise mon dec 30 , 2013 1 : 24 pm est believe it or not , i ’ m not always right mon dec 30 , 2013 05 : 24 am est bridesburg rec ’ s beloved ’ miss jackie ’ gets her own street mon dec 30 , 2013 05 : 24 am est daily news pet of the week : michelle mi belle mon dec 30 , 2013 05 : 24 am est new servicer on mortgage can affect credit report mon dec 30 , 2013 05 : 24 am est talking with god sat dec 28 , 2013 05 : 24 am est christen g. pionzio is named new w. norriton solicitor mon dec 30 , 2013 1 : 24 pm est southside johnny to launch n.j. ’ s 350th with new year ’ s eve gig mon dec 30 , 2013 07 : 24 am est holidays can be an unhealthy time for pets mon dec 30 , 2013 03 : 24 am est eagles fans revel in the excitement of a title clash mon dec 30 , 2013 03 : 24 am est police : man killed in ogontz shooting mon dec 30 , 2013 9 : 24 pm est man accused of killing baby , grandm mon dec 30 , 2013 7 : 24 pm est colorado band in mummers parade mon dec 30 , 2013 7 : 24 pm est n philly police-involved shooting mon dec 30 , 2013 7 : 24 pm est man shot , killed in east germantown mon dec 30 , 2013 5 : 24 pm est disney on ice reschedules saturday night show mon dec 30 , 2013 7 : 24 pm est highmark , upmc drop antitrust lawsuits mon dec 30 , 2013 5 : 24 pm est it ’ s an ice maze you could get lost in for new year ’ s eve residents sick of constant burglaries in herminie mon dec 30 , 2013 7 : 24 pm est late jim ecker remembered for work in and out of the courtroom mon dec 30 , 2013 5 : 24 pm est aguilera appears in psas aiming to end world hunger mon dec 30 , 2013 3 : 24 pm est authorities waiting on toxicology results in beechview crash tue oct 29 , 2013 7 : 24 pm edt ag sues conneaut lake park trustees in effort to save park tue oct 29 , 2013 7 : 24 pm edt rostraver man accused of threat against caseworker mon dec 30 , 2013 5 : 24 pm est flurries precede frigid start to new year mon dec 30 , 2013 9 : 24 pm est upmc , highmark drop antitrust lawsuits mon dec 30 , 2013 7 : 24 pm est man , already charged with vehicular homicide , busted for dui mon dec 30 , 2013 5 : 24 pm est steelers 2013 season ’ just wasnt meant to be ’ mon dec 30 , 2013 9 : 24 pm est city council salutes departing colleague with ’ bill peduto day ’ mon dec 30 , 2013 7 : 24 pm est first night fireworks , events schedule for new year ’ s eve mon dec 30 , 2013 3 : 24 pm est man dies after being impaled on tree stump in mount pocono mon dec 30 , 2013 9 : 24 pm est tobyhanna housekeeper hit with felony charge in christmas eve theft mon dec 30 , 2013 7 : 24 pm est arrest made in schuylkill county slashing mon jul 23 , 2012 11 : 24 am edt tim tebow joins sec network , still pursuing nfl mon dec 30 , 2013 9 : 24 pm est browns vow to get it right with next coach mon dec 30 , 2013 3 : 24 pm est homehomehot topics ( 1 new ) current affairsworld newsbusiness & # 38 ; financeindustry sectorstechnologysciencesportlifestyleentertainment & # 38 ; artsworld newsworld newseuropenorth americalatin americacaribbeanasiaafricamiddle eastsouth pacificlatin americalatin americasouth americacentral americasouth americasouth americaargentinaboliviabrazilchilecolombiaecuadorfalkland islandsperuuruguayvenezuelauruguaysport homehomehot topics ( 1 new ) current affairsworld newsbusiness & # 38 ; financeindustry sectorstechnologysciencesportlifestyleentertainment & # 38 ; artsworld newsworld newseuropenorth americalatin americacaribbeanasiaafricamiddle eastsouth pacificsouth pacificsouth pacificaustraliasamoafijinew zealandfijisport secondssmalltownpapers - the oskaloosa independent , valley falls kansasfanshawe student union > interrobang > advertising discussing the company 's problems in the u.s. and success in europe , with andy barish of jefferies and peter saleh of telsey advisory group .
newseconomyfinancehealth carereal estateretailwealthautosearningsenergymediapoliticscommentaryspecial reportsasiaeuropemarketspre-marketsu.s.asiaeuropestockscommoditiescurrenciesbondsfundsetfsinvestingfinancial advisorspersonal financecnbc explainsportfoliowatchliststock screenerfund screenertechmobilesocial mediaenterprisegamingcybersecuritysmall businessfranchisingfinancingmanagementvideolatest videodigital workshopu.s. videoasia videoeurope videoceo interviewsanalyst interviewsfull episodesclosed captioningshowswatch livecnbc u.s.cnbc asia-pacificcnbc europecnbc worldfull episodescnbcabout cnbcsite mapvideo reprintsadvertisecareershelpcontactprivacy policyterms of serviceindependent programming reportlatest news releasesrsscertain market data provided by thomson reutersdata also provided bydata is a real-time snapshot * data is delayed at least 15 minutesglobal business and financial news , stock quotes , and market data and analysis © 2014 cnbc llc . all rights reserved.a division of nbcuniversalhouses and porperty all over thailand have your lawyer not theres look at the contract and advise you !
remember you need to be able to get your property out when you want or change the status as well as not incurring unusual costs ? ? ? ? & also rmember a company can be here today and gone tomorrow as well so alls these facts are worth considering .
to change the land status a fee you may incur may be high but again ask your legal adviser .
homeabout usservice listpricing outlinestandard servicesper person servicesnews & # 038 ; eventsrelated linksphoto gallerycontact us best of # statereads : why new jersey ’ s trains flooded but new york ’ s stayed dry the ex-chief of the cia and nsa is giving speeches and interviews , working the sunday talk shows , and acting awfully un-spook-like our gadget guru scours the earth for newfangled connected devices .
a porkfolio for the person you love ?
call the center of your choice by 11 : 00 a.m. , one day in advance , to make a kosher lunch and activities for seniors age 65 + .
members can be age 60 or older ( and their spouses ) who are homebound for u.s. law officers arrest dozens of foreign ex-cons in los angelesby jim kouri end the wind ptc and business / government cronyism ! by mary kay barton medical tips on how to advoid the flu this winterby montana news billings person suffered burns due to pot of grease spillingby montana news the mclean county board of equalization is scheduled to meet in commission chambers in washburn on monday at 11 a.m.
it was poised to be a decisive week for the garrison school district .
sda gets new chief in mckenna , while larkins is named state comptroller martinique magnifique travel shows to be held in new york and miami us tsa official to present at state of the tourism industry conference in martinique homehomehot topics ( 1 new ) current affairsworld newsbusiness & # 38 ; financeindustry sectorstechnologysciencesportlifestyleentertainment & # 38 ; artsworld newsworld newseuropenorth americalatin americacaribbeanasiaafricamiddle eastsouth pacificasiaasiaafghanistanarmeniaazerbaijanbangladeshbhutanburmacambodiacentral asiachagos islandschinaeast timorhong kongindiaindonesiajapankashmirkazakhstankoreakurdistanmalaysianepalmongolianorth koreapakistanphilippinessingaporesri lankathailandtaiwantibetturkeyvietnamturkeyeconomypoliticsfloodsearthquake [ person of the year ] pm recep tayyip erdoğan : only man in towntoday 's zaman 17 : 00 31-dec-13 secondssuv crashes close to teens in parking lot | kob.com dmca noticeain alyaqeen | ain al yaqeen weekly arab political magazine a statement carried by the official news agency bna said the move was a response to recommendations of an inquiry into the turmoil commissioned by the bahraini government .
iran is developing on its own its part of the offshore hengam oil field it shares with oman .
ain-al-yaqeen | about us | archive ain al yaqeen montana news association obama to end feds working with local cops on immigration enforcementby jim kouri firefighter killed in fire at his own homeby montana news the programme ’ s main objective is to step up strategic reforms and fasttrack formalisation of properties and businesses countrywide , thus enabling tanzanians to access capital. ippmedia.com © 1998-2013 .
all rights reservedsmalltownpapers - the malakoff news , malakoff texas the joy of being a priest : following the cure of ars by christoph cardinal schoenbornmany are called : rediscovering the glory of the priesthood by dr. scott hahnthe grace of ars : reflections on the life and spirituality of st. john vianneyby fr .
frederick millersharing christ 's priesthood : a bible study for catholics by mike aquilinathe cure d 'ars : st. jean-marie-baptiste vianney by abbe francois trochusermons of the cure of ars presbyterorum ordinis ( decree on the ministry and life of priests ) perfectae caritatis ( decree on the adaptation and renewal of religious life at to discuss schedule of activities for 2014 na joseph mchekadona at secretary general suleiman nyambui said yesterday the technical committee headed by doctor hamad mdee is expected to go through the calendar of activities for the association before it is approved by the executive committee of the body .
other members of the committee are rehema kilo , mwinga mwanjara and robert kaliyaie .
court rejects dpp 's objection to bail for chinese nationals na karama kenyunko advocate rweyongeza contended that the section quoted by the dpp was not proper .
he said the dpp was supposed to file the certificate after the committal proceedings had taken place .
it was claimed that the tusks were found in sacks of garlic at the house of the chinese nationals. ippmedia.com © 1998-2013 .
all rights reservedcuvânt înainte | cadran politic pe o piata mass-media , în care multi se declara a fi apolitici si echidistanti , noi ne asumam prin titlul revistei caracterul politic al acestei publicatii .
din punctul nostru de vedere , nu exista nimic în afara dimensiunii politice .
politica înseamna pu-tere .
politica o întâlnim în interiorul statului ca forma de organizare a puterii si în orice relaţie umana ca forma de dominare şi supunere .
de la banala deţinere a telecomenzii în cadrul unei familii , care sugerează în acelaşi timp controlul si puterea decizionala , pâna la raportul dintre presedinte si premier , totul a devenit politic în societatea de astazi .
apolitismul nu înseamna neimplicare politica , iar cei care se declara apolitici nu fac altceva decât sa creeze iluzia echidistantei .
pasivitatea politica poate însemna atât dezinteres manifestat fata de activitatea politica cât si refuzul constient al partizanatului politic .
contrar interpretarilor date sondajelor de opinie , apolitismul manifestat la noi nu este unul al lipsei de interes , ci unul determinat de neîncredere , generat de prea multe dezamagiri . românii , în general , sunt fascinati de scena politica , însa sanctioneaza prin indiferenta ( absenteism electoral ) personajele politice .
desi este iluzorie cre-dinta ca cetateanul poate participa direct la luarea deciziilor politice , el este parte a politicii si reprezinta garantia ei .
tocmai de aceea , consideram ca indiferenta politica devine periculoasa daca nu este dublata de o informare reala si permanenta .
informatia bruta , preluata fara filtru si analiza poate deveni un inamic , te poate transforma în victima a manipularii si apoi în masa usor manevrabila .
ideea aparitiei revistei cadran politic a fost aceea de a oferi puncte de vedere si analize pertinente ale evenimentelor si proceselor politice interne si internationale , într-un moment în care nevoia de clarificari este mai mare ca oricând .
echipa redactionala nu-si doreste sa va furnizeze aceste certitudini , ci doar informatii si posibile grile de interpretare , construite pe baze stiintifice , astfel încât fiecare dintre noi sa capete o întelegere proprie asupra evenimetelor politice si sociale .
autorii materialelor pe care vi le propunem în paginile acestei publicatii sunt specialisti în stiinte sociale , mass-media si oameni de cultura ale caror puncte de vedere sunt importante pentru a oferi o imagine de ansamblu asupra lumii de astazi .
pentru ca fiecare dintre noi are propriile atitudini si valori , nu putem sa afirmam ca fiecare articol în parte va fi deplin neutru sau impartial .
putem afirma , fara teama de a gresi , ca revista este independenta din punct de vedere politic , ca orice opinie îsi va gasi locul în paginile ei , fie ea de dreapta sau de stânga .
suntem non-partizani , fara a fi apolitici .
promisiunea pe care o facem acum , la început de drum , cititorilor nostri este una de seriozitate si respect pentru cuvântul scris si mai ales pentru cei care , dorind o panorama a vietii politice , dincolo de paginile de scandal , vor deveni partenerii nostri de dialog . © 2010 cadran politic · rss · designed by theme junkie · powered by wordpress they 'll work out … if they can watch tv : netflix usersnew york postnetflix is the perfect workout buddy according to a new studytechnobuffalo - by sean aunehighly cited : netflix finds more than half of americans willing to trade their couches for ... marketwatchsee all 18 sourcesrelated harley pasternak dmca noticeafter the times square party comes the cleanup | kob.com “ this is enough !
we are scared to death !
the economy hasn ’ t recovered , and now these bur ...
what ’ s the best landmark chinatown could have ?
is it a western-style marble gate or a ch ...
in california , students and parents prefer the new school lunches how the creators of ‘ the simpsons ’ smuggled math onto the hit show on course for maths and medicine after top ranks in act witten was born in baltimore , maryland .
he is the son of lorraine w. witten and louis witten , a theoretical physicist specializing in gravitation and general relativity .
stateline – best of # statereads : new jersey ’ s halfway houses operate as a ‘ shadow corrections network ’ “ unlocked : inside new jersey ’ s halfway houses ” — the new york times “ government transparency in n.j. a murky affair ” — the philadelphia inquirer “ pers : unfunded liability of pension funds tightens its grip around oregon ” — the oregonian the most expensive bike was auctioned at around $ 110 , while the cheapest bike was sold for only $ 1 to a woman who told others at the auction that it was her own stolen bike .
as stateline has noted , the montana legislature may need to overhaul its tax structure to meet those needs .
washington ’ s new governor — regardless of who prevails — will face a much different set of issues .
unlike montana , washington doesn ’ t enjoy the luxury of a budget surplus .
le mali a annoncé avoir engagé des poursuites contre son ex-président amadou toumani touré pour des faits de « haute trahison » en lien avec l ’ occupation du pays par des forces étrangères en 2012 . ( 12 / 29 / 2013 3 : 36 : 30 am ) troopers urge safety on new years eve mon dec 30 , 2013 9 : 14 pm est nopd seeks 2 who held up algiers gas station mon dec 30 , 2013 5 : 14 pm est die hard who dats gear up for playoff game in philadelphia mon dec 30 , 2013 7 : 14 pm est slidell fishing pier damaged by isaac to reopen sun dec 29 , 2013 11 : 14 pm est congratulations on your engagement , and thank you for considering attending our diocesan marriage preparation workshop !
the workshop is entitled " invited to joy " , and it is a one day event in which couples will be invited into a deeper understanding of a sacramental marriage , and will ...
herb kohl : if he could pay for the whole arena project , he says he would mon dec 30 , 2013 4 : 20 pm est children ’ s hospital to move 475 workers to new west allis office mon dec 30 , 2013 4 : 20 pm est roadrunner coo dobak resigns , van helden promoted mon dec 30 , 2013 2 : 20 pm est settlement reached over control of milwaukee ’ s repairers of the breach mon dec 30 , 2013 8 : 20 pm est foreclosure bills aim to remedy damage to wisconsin cities sun dec 29 , 2013 2 : 20 pm est port washington clears way for duluth trading co. to own building sat dec 21 , 2013 12 : 20 pm est lac du flambeau tribe buys island on wisconsin reservation mon dec 30 , 2013 10 : 20 pm est former clerk kathy nickolaus plans a run for waukesha county board tue dec 17 , 2013 2 : 20 pm est dpw crews subdue water main break on milwaukee ’ s southside mon dec 30 , 2013 2 : 20 pm est newseconomyfinancehealth carereal estateretailwealthautosearningsenergymediapoliticscommentaryspecial reportsasiaeuropemarketspre-marketsu.s.asiaeuropestockscommoditiescurrenciesbondsfundsetfsinvestingfinancial advisorspersonal financecnbc explainsportfoliowatchliststock screenerfund screenertechmobilesocial mediaenterprisegamingcybersecuritysmall businessfranchisingfinancingmanagementvideolatest videodigital workshopu.s. videoasia videoeurope videoceo interviewsanalyst interviewsfull episodesclosed captioningshowswatch livecnbc u.s.cnbc asia-pacificcnbc europecnbc worldfull episodescnbcabout cnbcsite mapvideo reprintsadvertisecareershelpcontactprivacy policyterms of serviceindependent programming reportlatest news releasesrsscertain market data provided by thomson reutersdata also provided bydata is a real-time snapshot * data is delayed at least 15 minutesglobal business and financial news , stock quotes , and market data and analysis © 2014 cnbc llc . all rights reserved.a division of nbcuniversalthe impressive times - english weekly and daily , published from faridabad , haryana , delhi & ncr english newspaper , editor monoj kumar mandalthird suspect sought newseconomyfinancehealth carereal estateretailwealthautosearningsenergymediapoliticscommentaryspecial reportsasiaeuropemarketspre-marketsu.s.asiaeuropestockscommoditiescurrenciesbondsfundsetfsinvestingfinancial advisorspersonal financecnbc explainsportfoliowatchliststock screenerfund screenertechmobilesocial mediaenterprisegamingcybersecuritysmall businessfranchisingfinancingmanagementvideolatest videodigital workshopu.s. videoasia videoeurope videoceo interviewsanalyst interviewsfull episodesclosed captioningshowswatch livecnbc u.s.cnbc asia-pacificcnbc europecnbc worldfull episodescnbcabout cnbcsite mapvideo reprintsadvertisecareershelpcontactprivacy policyterms of serviceindependent programming reportlatest news releasesrsscertain market data provided by thomson reutersdata also provided bydata is a real-time snapshot * data is delayed at least 15 minutesglobal business and financial news , stock quotes , and market data and analysis © 2014 cnbc llc . all rights reserved.a division of nbcuniversaloa _ show ( ' leaderboard - xx90 ' ) ; pumpjack pub gets city endorsement to double its spaceby shauna lewis1 why not go for dinner in havana ?
by serafin lariviere will this man be the first openly gay mayor in turkey ?
as the cobbler ’ s children go unshod , the editor ’ s copy goes unchecked ... joeclark now to be added to ego , id , and superego , is an inner mandela ? ? 1dizzy1 gay man arrested at hospital for refusing to leave partnerby montana news for the first time in the history of man kind ; doctors use brain scans to " see " painby montana news top u.s. spy concerned over drastic budget cuts by obamaby jim kouri how to lighten your tax burden at the end of the yearby montana news în data de 15 decembrie a.c. la academia română a avut loc festivitatea de acordare premiilor pentru cele mai bune cărţi publicate în anul 2009 .
colegei nostre virginia mircea i-a fost decernat din partea secţiei de filosofie premiul „ vasile conta ” pentru cartea „ islamul şi soarta lumii .
fundamentalismul islamic ca ideologie politică ” .
prima parte a volumului intitulat „ o eliberare dificilă ” ne arată că în primele momente după căderea regimurilor comuniste în europa de est , numeroşi analişti au impus termenul „ tranziţie ” ca şi cum punctul de plecare şi cel de sosire ar fi fost perfect cunoscute .
aceste borne simbolice erau întunecate ...
terorismul este o plagă .
poate fi inclus în maladiile cronice ale omenirii , o catastrofă de mărimea celor naturale , dar făcut de mâna oamenilor , la fel ca şi războiul .
ştiri despre manifestările teroriste sunt zilnic .
atentate cu bombe , autori invizibili şi victime nevinovate .
maladia e veche şi pare că nu se dezlipeşte de om de-a lungul istoriei sale .
nu erau raidurile ...
tags : noua dimensiune a terorismului international , virginia mircea , vitrina cu cărți în istoriografia română , există două filoane preţioase ale cercetărilor privind europa de sud-est .
cel dintâi , are la origine crearea , în 1913 , la bucureşti , a institutului de studii sud-est europene , de către nicolae iorga , gheorghe munteanu-murgoci şi vasile pârvan .
cel de-al doilea , institutul de studii şi cercetări balcanice , fondat în 1938 , la bucureşti , de victor papacostea ....
cartea “ razboiul secret din anul 1989 “ cerceteaza o tema ce apartine celei mai recente istorii ( 1989-1991 ) din romania dar si din celelal te tari foste socialiste din europa , inclusiv din fosta uniune sovietica .
revolutia din decembrie  89 : pacatul originar , sacrificiul fondator este prima carte dintr-o serie de sapte volume dedicate ultimelor doua decenii din istoria româniei .  nu am pretentia ca sunt detinatorul unui adevar politic , juridic sau istoric incontestabil , si sunt gata sa discut si sa accept orice documente , fapte sau marturii care pot lumina mai bine sau chiar altfel realitatea .
educatia ...
tags : emil constantinescu , pacatul originar , revolutia din decembrie  89 , sacrificiul fondator , vitrina cu cărți & # 8220 ; alteţa sa regală prinţul el hassan bin talal este o personalitate prezentă în toate areopagurile politice , filosofice sau teologice unde se discută soarta globală a lumii . [ … ] nu portretul iordanianului sau al arabului este ales de autor ca titlu al lucrării sale .
este un portret mai larg care le cuprinde pe precedentele : este acela al mahomedanului .
acesta trebuie cunoscut în forma ...
tags : a fi musulman , alteţa sa regală prinţul el hassan bin talal , democratie , el hassan bin talal , islam , pace , vitrina cu cărți cartea dăruită de autor nu are aproape nimic literar , este o prezentare de fapte şi personaje reale din timpul revoluţiei din decembrie 1989 , care se constituie într-o mărturie şocantă ce multor lideri politici postdecembrişti nu le convine , dar nu numai atât , au încercat cu asiduitate să creeze în jurul autorului o legendă potrivit căreia informaţiile publicate nu pot fi credibile ... © 2011 cadran politic · rss · designed by theme junkie · powered by wordpress kentonline home a kent meteorologist has revealed kent had the wettest day in more than 20 years this year ... and it wasn 't in december !
help at hand for lonely and depressed at new year craig fagan is just days away from finding out if gillingham want to keep him for the remainder of the season .
gillingham face teams at either end of the table in the next few days .
but boss peter taylor won ’ t be setting his side up any different .
promotion-chasing ebbsfleet are looking at potential loan signings but manager steve brown is in no rush to add to his squad .
play today 's quiz below to see if you can top the leader-board and return tomorrow for a new set of questions !
register your result and you could win £ 250 !
he said that to start with the inspectors will be posted to horohoro and namanga border posts , considered to be leading in mineral smuggling .
top storiesnews near youindiaarvind kejriwalvirbhadra singhramesh chennithalatelanganakolkatajammu and kashmirindiasanjay nirupampranab mukherjeemuzaffarnagarworldbusinesstechnologyentertainmentsportssciencehealthmore top storiesspotlighttop storiesnews near youindiaworldbusinesstechnologyentertainmentsportssciencehealthmore top storiesspotlightindiathe hindusee realtime coveragedelhi chief minister kejriwal to face crucial trust vote todayhindustan times- & lrm ; 7 minutes ago & lrm ; chief minister arvind kejriwal will face a crucial vote of confidence on thursday in the delhi assembly which he may sail through with the backing of the congress mlas , notwithstanding reports of uncertainty surrounding the minority government.related arvind kejriwal after subsidising power , arvind kejriwal orders audit of discomsdaily news & analysisdelhi cm arvind kejriwal orders cag audit of private power companies from ... zee newsopinion : on aap and subsidieslivemintin-depth : delhi govt orders audit of three distribution companies ' booksbusiness standardsee all 506 sourcesrelated arvind kejriwal sit chargesheets 225 people for muzaffarnagar riotshindustan timescong to protest over lack of facilities in riot campsbusiness standardhighly cited : 225 charged for muzaffarnagar riotsthe hinduin-depth : congress to protest over lack of facilities in riot campseconomic timessee all 21 sourcesrelated muzaffarnagar ' unapologetic ' us to proceed with diplomat 's prosecutionahmedabad mirrordevyani khobragade source : apthe australianin-depth : why the us will have to eat crow over devyani khobragade rowfirstpostsee all 108 sourcesrelated united states of america economic timessee realtime coveragefree water , power tariff cut : sad accuses aap of aping its policieszee news- & lrm ; 4 hours ago & lrm ; amritsar : aap government 's move to provide relief to delhi residents in power and water bills is nothing new , but the nascent party has simply followed what akalis have already done in punjab , ruling shiromani akali dal claimed on wednesday.shiromani akali dal accuses aap of aping its policieseconomic timessee all 4 sourcesrelated : shiromani akali dal no bar on purchase of private land : ramesh to industrydeccan heraldno bar on purchase of private land : ramesh to in 'strypress trust of indiain-depth : new land acquisition act comes into forceeconomic timessee all 31 sourcesrelated jairam ramesh pranab mukherjee gives assent to lokpal billdaily news & analysismuch-awaited lokpal bill gets president pranab 's assentonlineindiannewssee all 34 sourcesrelated pranab mukherjee andhra cm defends portfolio re-jigfirstpostreddy under fire for portfolio rejigindian expressin-depth : telangana bill to be tabled in parliament in february : jaipal reddyeconomic timessee all 103 sourcesrelated telangana ramesh chennithala takes oath as kerala ministerindian expresschennithala joins kerala cabinet , differences surface in congressindia todaysee all 97 sourcesrelated ramesh chennithala a blackout landing page is displayed on a laptop computer screen inside the " anti-sopa war room " at the offices of the wikipedia foundation in san francisco .
oneindia entertainmentsee realtime coveragebattle of the sexes , gauhar-tanisha vs ajaz-sangram on bigg boss 7 ! oneindia entertainmentdec 27 , 2013written bygirija narayanbigg boss 7 has reached the final three days and with only four people surviving , the contestants are a couple of ladies , gauhar khan and tanisha mukherjee and a couple of gentlemen , sangram singh and ajaz khan.see all 812 sourcesrelated : bigg boss sleepy hatquick cat nap hat .
spike asleep on my headlong day ? cat in manhattanperching up there again . $ 1 cat-on-head photodefinitely worth the buck.double cutekitten hat ! cat tanthe sunbeam .
a cat 's best friend.nice vieweverything looks so small from up here ! playing it coolwhat cat ? super serioustough to take someone seriously when they have a cat on their head , but this is a very good try.hi theresurprise ! getting work donejust keeping your head warm while you work.headphone catwhatcha listening to ? kitten hat for catscutest cat hat around .
winter cat hatmust be cold out .
relaxing after workso how was your day ? trouble falling asleepbut you try telling the cat to move.loungingdon 't move , i 'm really comfortable.what 're you lookin ' at ? haven 't you ever seen a cat hat before ?
tough to choosetrying to choose which cat hat to wear.nap cat hatsweet dreams .
cat hat on hatextra warm .
now i am pretty sure she is the most organized editor in the business .
she is a seasoned pro with the english language yet doesn & # 8217 ; t seem to know the meaning of procrastination .
newseconomyfinancehealth carereal estateretailwealthautosearningsenergymediapoliticscommentaryspecial reportsasiaeuropemarketspre-marketsu.s.asiaeuropestockscommoditiescurrenciesbondsfundsetfsinvestingfinancial advisorspersonal financecnbc explainsportfoliowatchliststock screenerfund screenertechmobilesocial mediaenterprisegamingcybersecuritysmall businessfranchisingfinancingmanagementvideolatest videodigital workshopu.s. videoasia videoeurope videoceo interviewsanalyst interviewsfull episodesclosed captioningshowswatch livecnbc u.s.cnbc asia-pacificcnbc europecnbc worldfull episodescnbcabout cnbcsite mapvideo reprintsadvertisecareershelpcontactprivacy policyterms of serviceindependent programming reportlatest news releasesrsscertain market data provided by thomson reutersdata also provided bydata is a real-time snapshot * data is delayed at least 15 minutesglobal business and financial news , stock quotes , and market data and analysis © 2014 cnbc llc . all rights reserved.a division of nbcuniversalpolice : no beer led to ceramic squirrel stabbing | kob.com the drop is attributed to decline in the produce 's prices at the world market .
tea farmers are currently selling a kilo of the commodity at usd2.05 , down from usd2.56 in may and usd3.38 in january .
the week ’ s best news photoshere ’ s a quick way to catch up on the week ’ s news , through some of our favorite photos .
read : obama urges nation to demand a ’ common sense ’ balance on gun control , gun rights " / > letter : have we destroyed the gold ore at argyle airport ?
letter : it was not a state visit after all , but was it a gonsalves jolly up ?
letter : did prime minister gonsalves simply beg an audience with the pope ?
st vincent pm to make dominican republic a priority as caricom chairman letter : does any of this sound feasible at st vincent 's argyle airport ?
when it comes to new year 's resolutions , many of us get caught up in the spirit of starting fresh , wiping the slate clean and ringing in a new year with a new attitude .
the types of promises we make to ourselves run the gamut -- from small , everyday goals like ...
" run your own race , baby " those were the words spoken to me by father at a critical moment of my life .
i was a struggling actress , just beginning her career , and i 'd gone to dad in tears .
he was a famous comedian by then , and that was the problem : because ...
where are the real tough guys in football ?
i want to see the " real men " who have heart and courage .
i am not talking about heroics on the field .
i am talking about the guys willing to stand up and say bullying should not be tolerated anywhere in football . ...
when i was a kid , nobody set a table or stocked a pantry like my mom .
as a true sicilian , her love of food was matched only by her keen sense of presentation .
she always said , " the eyes eat before the stomach . "
and all these years later , i can still ...
he had come to washington that day , he said , to " cash a check . "
" when the architects of our republic wrote the magnificent words of the constitution and the declaration of independence , " he announced to the crowd of 250,000 on the national mall , " they were signing a promissory note to which ...
recognizing dad : can you identify the dads of these celebrities ?
the curious history of women who ' passed ' as men in pursuit of a dream hate the gym ? 11 crazy alternatives to get in shape guys who get it : the men of the women 's movement make way for the " makers " -- meet the warriors of the women 's movement christmas and my magic mom : a story by whoopi goldberg « previousthe end of the neo-liberal age , or the return to the left next usl va lansa un program de microindustrializare interviu cu domnul deputat constantin niţă , vicepreşedinte psd şi preşedintele psd judeţul braşov © 2012 cadran politic · rss · designed by theme junkie · powered by wordpresscheap typres home page we won ’ t be beaten on price nuestros precios son inmejorables stay , save and say ' i do ' with the divi & tamarijn aruba all inclusives wedding and honeymoon packages prince of songkla university ( psu ) deploys aruba wlan on three campuses © 2013 indexmundi - all rights reservedpolice arrest man for murdering deshler volunteer coach burundi : rencontre entre pouvoir et opposition sur la question du code électoral burundi : rencontre entre pouvoir et opposition sur la question du code au burundi , alors que l ’ opposition avait boycotté les élections générales de 2010 , les nations unies ont organisé mi-mars les premières discussions pouvoir-opposition en vue d ’ organiser en 2015 des élections libres et apaisées .
ce qui avait débouché sur la signature d ’ une feuille de route .
les organisateurs veulent transformer l ’ essai en organisant une nouvelle rencontre entre les acteurs politiques burundais sur la question du code électoral dès aujourd ’ hui , mais ça nous n ’ attendons rien de la rencontre de kayanza .
l 'opposition burundaise toute la classe politique burundaise va se retrouver une nouvelle fois autour d ’ une table de discussions .
et pour & rdquo ; favoriser & bdquo ; la concentration des participants , cet atelier se tiendra dans le cadre champêtre de kayanza , dans le pendant trois jours , pouvoir et opposition vont tenter de nettoyer le code électoral burundais , un texte très lacunaire selon l ’ avis de toutes les parties .
d ’ ores et déjà , les différents protagonistes se sont mis d ’ accord sur bon nombre également s ’ accorder sur la question du règlement du contentieux électoral ou mais les nuages s ’ accumulent déjà au-dessus de cette rencontre .
l ’ opposition accuse le pouvoir burundais d ’ avoir uniquement distribué le document de travail aux partis politiques qui lui sont proches , mais aussi de continuer à empêcher les réunions de l ’ opposition en violation de la feuille de route signée en mars & rdquo ; nous n ’ attendons rien de la rencontre de kayanza , mais nous y serons quand burundi réalités ( c ) 2006 all rights reserved the silsbee bee verwenden sie ein mobiles gerät ?
huffpost mobile finden sie unter http : / / m.huffpost.com / de / ..
update : der gesundheitszustand von ex-formel-1-star michael schumacher ist weiter kritisch ...
in der öffentlichkeit versuchen die mitbewerber von apple stets , die technischen neuerungen des iphone 5s herunterzuspielen .
anscheinend hat eine dieser innovationen - der schnelle 64-bit-a7-mikroprozessor - bei der konkurrenz allerdings panik ausgelöst .
beim chiphersteller qualcomm , der mikroprozessoren für vielen handys des apple-konkurrenten android herstellt , versucht man , sich nach außen nichts anmerken zu lassen .
einem unternehmens-insider zufolge drehen die leute dort aber gerade durch . „ der 64-bit-chip von apple ist ein absoluter tiefschlag " , erklärt der mitarbeiter .
jetzt wird wieder an jeder plakatwand appelliert , gute vorsätze zu treffen und umzusetzen .
aber warum sollte eine über jahre erfolglose strategie plötzlich erfolgreich werden .
wenn veränderungen dann neu denken und nicht mehr mühe aufs alte verwenden .
das " abu camp " ist eines der schönsten luxusresorts afrikas .
es liegt auf einem 450.000 hektar großen privatgrundstück inmitten des okavango deltas in botswana .
sechs baumhaus-luxuszelte gehören zum " abu camp " , das ganz in der nähe einer elefantenherde beheimatet ist .
soll mein sohn später mal journalist werden ?
wenn ich mir die entwicklung bei den tageszeitungen anschaue , die schwindenden auflagezahlen , der kampf um die löhne , müsste ich ihm davon abraten .
auf der anderen seite ist journalismus ein großartiger beruf .
zum neuen jahr schicken die bundesbürger sicherlich keine guten wünsche nach brüssel .
im gegenteil : je mehr sie sich bei überweisungen mit sepa , iban und bic beschäftigen , desto heftiger werden ihre verwünschungen über die neue idee der eu-bürokraten .
was für ein merkwürdiges jahr da hinter uns liegt .
es war das jahr der umbrüche und des politischen stillstands ; das jahr der selfies und der großen koalitionen ; das jahr der abschiede großer männer ( reich-ranicki , mandela ) und der gescheiterten comebacks kleinerer männer ( berlusconi ) .
und nicht zu vergessen , die ganz kleinen männer ( royal baby george ) .
für mich ist demokratie die freiheit des einzelnen .
demokraten traten vor allem für diese freiheit des einzelnen ein und kämpften gegen monarchien oder diktaturen .
sie wurde vor allem dadurch legitimiert , dass sie das streben nach glück möglich machen .
als antwort auf die „ wort des jahres " tradition in westlichen ländern , veranstalten asiatische nationen ähnliche wettbewerbe .
die gewählten schriftzeichen , die die geschehnisse des jahres am besten symbolisieren , deuten auf eine durchwachsene zeit hin .
wann wird überhaupt noch regiert ?
die ersten monate nach der wahl wird sondiert .
dann steht die koalition , und ehe sich die minister umgeschaut haben , klopft auch schon europawahl an .
heißt im umkehrschluss : im bund geschieht wieder einmal nichts .
der nicht unbedingt als sensibel zu bezeichnende berliner hauptkommissar reemund und sein mitarbeiter wedelbeck haben den mord am psychologen koss aufzuklären .
dessen kopf wurde in einem blumenkasten gefunden , der rumpf hingegen im auto des wohnungsinhabers der wechsel von der „ ökonomie der zuvielisation " zu einer „ ökonomie der bedeutsamkeit " , zeigt sich auch in der outdoorbranche .
funktionale kleidung braucht heute nicht mehr zwangsläufig umweltschädliche stoffe , imprägnierungen und produktionsweisen .
ärztezentrum , ärztehaus , facharztzentrum : verschiedene begriffe für eine immobilie , in der eine mehrzahl von ärzten und anderen dienstleistern des gesundheitswesens arbeiten .
im vergleich zu pflegeheimen und krankenhäusern beschäftigt sich heute nur eine geringe anzahl von immobilieninvestoren mit dieser der gesundheitsimmobilie .
warum ist das so ?
oft werden verbrechen am wochenende begangen oder an feiertagen , weil sich besonders dann keiner für die opfer einsetzen will . „ darum kümmert man sich nur an werktagen , wenn überhaupt ! " , antworten die redakteure .
das wissen auch die diktatoren .
neuigkeiten aus münchen : der sohn des kunsthändlers gurlitt soll unter betreuung gestellt werden .
vor dem kulturtempel gasteig in münchen wird gegen putin demonstriert .
wir sollten mehr geduld mit russland haben , putin ist eben noch nicht so weit wie merkel .
es wäre so einfach , die märchen-fantasy-serie " once upon a time " ( abc ) schlechtzureden .
weshalb ich hier mal ganz offiziell eine lanze für " ouat " brechen möchte .
und fünf gründe nenne , wieso die serie zur derzeit besten tv-unterhaltung gehört .
stoiber ermahnt csu : " deutschland ist unser vaterland , europa unsere zukunft " getty 2013 - der etwas andere rückblick auf ein merkwürdiges jahrthinkstock nach sechs tagen im antarktis-eis : jetzt muss der hubschrauber randpa nrw-umweltminister remmel : " gabriel läuft gefahr , in eine falle zu tappen " dpa griechenland gerettet ?
ab 2015 ohne finanzhilfen .
aber vorher ... dpagriechische eu-ratspräsidentschaft : schäuble findet 's gut nsa kann gezielt computer angreifen - hacker rufen zum widerstand aufthinkstock " schlimmer als ihre schlimmsten alpträume " mit kalaschnikow : schüsse auf haus des deutschen botschafters in athenthinkstock.com österreichs 27-jähriger außenminister : kaum im amt , plant er schon den rücktrittdpa einfach mal in die deutschen sozialsysteme einwandern ?
so einfach ist das nichtgetty kultsandalen " crocs " will kaum noch einer habenapder hersteller muss sich schleunigst neu aufstellen türkei wird zur willkürherrschaft : ist erdogan der neue putin ? dpawarum der regierungschef weg muss ( kommentar ) ist deutschland das " bordell europas " ? dpadie csu will prostitution unter 21 verbieten - und zuhälter überwachen lassen nach terror-anschlägen in russland : deutscher olympischer sportbund bleibt vor spielen in sotschi gelassengettyaber " 100-prozentige sicherheit kann man nie garantieren " lesen sie artikel , die ihnen möglicherweise gefallen , und schauen sie sich an , was ihre freunde teilen .
alles , was sie heute über sekt wissen müsenthinkstock6 sekt-tipps zum angeben same question as every year : wann läuft " dinner for one " an silvester 2013 ? dpa 21 verrückte fakten aus der wissenschaft , die uns dieses jahr beeindruckt habennasa in deutschland gesuchter millionenbetrüger hat sich auf diese insel abgesetztthinkstock ... aber er hatte nicht lange freude an ihr ein iphone-feature versetzt die konkurrenz in nackte panikbloomberg via getty images wenn helmut newton die simpsons vor der linse hätte ( fotos ) homer und marge ziehen blank freies kiffen für ( fast ) alle : zwei us-staaten geben marihuana freishutterstock ... und bereiten damit den weg für ein milliardengeschäft diese promis konnten 2013 ihre klamotten einfach nicht anlassen ( fotos ) closer / splash parish information ( select the first letter of the city in which the parish is located . ) abcdefghiklmnoprstvw the silsbee bee here is a link issued by king power that alledgedly shows the lady pocketing a wallet but was not produced until 2 months after .
careful examination one may see how a video may have been changed as its very easy to do to suit the situation after the fact ? http : / / www.kingpower.com / 2009 / index.php # burundanga is a type of chloroform and is widely used by kratoys and scammers to make one sleep then they rob you .
such a drug can be placed in a drink , an aircon of a taxi car ( using a napkin ) or on the breasts of a thai girl or boy or even on a personal greeting card given to an unwary forerigner or thai as has happened .
once you feel symtoms of dizziness or fainting then chances are something has been doctored .
it has happened in thailand and still being used as at sept 2009 so if you get faint make someone aware of your condition & get away from where you are if the person has befriended you may have administered it to you .
car wrecks nothing new for indy couple mon dec 30 , 2013 7 : 23 pm est tagged sharks trigger tweets for aussie swimmers mon dec 30 , 2013 5 : 23 pm est its been a busy year for epd sun dec 29 , 2013 01 : 23 am est new year ’ s day is no.1 holiday for auto theft mon dec 30 , 2013 9 : 23 pm est how to still save on 2013 taxes mon dec 30 , 2013 9 : 23 pm est lawton man accused of child abuse mon dec 30 , 2013 5 : 23 pm est ray pleads guilty to murder mon dec 30 , 2013 3 : 23 pm est mlk banquet tickets on sale mon dec 30 , 2013 7 : 23 pm est attorney in sex assault case says case it too old sat dec 28 , 2013 5 : 23 pm est mcalester police officer breaks woman ’ s leg sat dec 28 , 2013 5 : 23 pm est saunders becomes ous big play guy mon dec 30 , 2013 9 : 23 pm est pharmacies refused arrested doctor ’ s prescriptions mon dec 30 , 2013 9 : 23 pm est wanted : oklahoma escapees mon dec 30 , 2013 3 : 23 pm est bixby man with 9 duis to face judge tuesday mon dec 30 , 2013 7 : 23 pm est ok man admits to killing teen in 1976 mon dec 30 , 2013 5 : 23 pm est police : escapee killed in okc home invasion mon dec 30 , 2013 1 : 23 pm est az suspect tied to okc bank robberies , ms murder sun dec 29 , 2013 5 : 23 pm est nationwide manhunt for murder suspect ends in ok sun dec 29 , 2013 3 : 23 pm est starbase 21 closing on tuesday mon dec 30 , 2013 7 : 23 pm est bartlesville man rebuilds landmark building mon dec 30 , 2013 7 : 23 pm est tulsa says goodbye to steve ’ s sundry bookstore mon dec 30 , 2013 7 : 23 pm est tipsy tow offers free ride home this new year ’ s eve mon dec 30 , 2013 5 : 23 pm est law enforcement plans new year ’ s eve crackdown mon dec 30 , 2013 3 : 23 pm est chiara de blasio admits to substance abuse in videoamnydaughter of nyc mayor-elect shares history of past substance abusebet - by natelege whaleyin depth : de blasio 's daughter reveals substance abusenew york timessee all 677 sourcesrelated bill de blasio me and my friends fighting sunken ciy boss plz comment twitter music is here today , and you can & # 8217 ; t use it dick perssons : a man of his own character na guardian on sunday correspondent yes , here is a man who has found humans of the jungle , the most perilous beasts who are at best the most unfriendly at the sight of real humans .
they don ’ t chances , and you do not want to fall prey to them , just get an advice from mr. persson .
what about the lions , buffaloes and snakes !
at the age of 21 after his graduation from a polytechnic institute , he got the opportunity to acquaint himself with the desert fauna in tunisia and this went on for the next 15 years .
it is important to preserve these irreplaceable resources , which are featured at the exhibitions in kagera museum named ’ wildlife the gold of kagera ’ .
for those years i worked as an operation and maintenance manager at the bot , but still i spent all my weekends in the bush .
q : what would you need in order to go to the bush to study wildlife and take pictures ?
my first exhibition was in the national museum in dar es salaam and attracted 4,000 visitors at the first three weeks and generated good income to the museum .
q : why do you now build up this exhibition in arusha ?
a : when we had the opening ceremony of kagera museum , the director of arusha natural history museum , felista mangalu , was one of the invited guests .
one visitor wrote in the suggestion book that this exhibition is so important to tanzanians and it is difficult to explain so it must be seen by their own eyes to understand how important environment is to our world .
q : who do you wish should be the guest of honour ?
a : it is a difficult question , because they are all important and dependant on each other .
i can like colourful snakes the same way i can like the beautiful cheetah .
by rob driscoll a lot of folks in the business world go to great lengths to avoid having their children along for a business trip , fearing it would be at best distracting and at worst chaos .
i was part of & hellip ; continue reading & rarr ; deliver any posting to that you do not have a right to make available under law or contractual or fiduciary relationships . ( iii ) identification of the material that is claimed to be infringing or to be the subject of infringing activity and that is to be removed or access to which is to be disabled , and information reasonably sufficient to permit clear channel to locate the material . ( v ) a statement that the complaining party has a good faith belief that use of the material in the manner complained of is not authorized by the copyright owner , its agent , or the law .
une stratégie unique qui englobe pour la première fois l ’ aide humanitaire , la coopération technique et financière , les mesures de politique économique et commerciale et la coopération avec les pays de l ’ est : ce tournant important a été salué aussi bien par le parlement que par l ’ opinion publique , soulignent le directeur de la ddc martin dahinden et marie-gabrielle ineichen-fleisch , secrétaire d ’ etat et directrice du seco , dans le rapport annuel 2012 sur la coopération internationale de la suisse qui vient de sortir de presse .
at the same time , his father had a stroke and was half-paralysed as a result .
do decided to move to vancouver and take care of his father .
with needs to meet and bills to be paid , do got a job at a fedex kinkos store in vancouver .
he worked hard and was able to climb the ladder of his branch , over the course of five years .
“ it was accurate about 90 % of the time … that caught the attention of ebay , and i got my first promotion ” said do .
of that time in his life , do said “ i didn ’ t know exactly what to do , but my father always encouraged us to go back [ to school ] . & # 8221 ; do said that his rational was “ i ’ ll be a doctor , they can ’ t outsource me . ”
“ i ’ ve learned a lot , and i am very thankful for that , it really opened a lot of doors ” he said .
his curiosity encouraged him to order a few nfc tags and a tag writer .
he wanted to try them out .
he continued , “ i felt the potential of all of this and it was just mind-blowing . ”
he was a finalist at hamilton ’ s lions liar , a winner and vitacore dragon ’ s den , second place at the enactus student entrepreneur national competition and the top winner at dx3 .
“ people are captivated by our technology & # 8230 ; i really believe we are on the verge of an nfc explosion , ” he said .
chennai open : youzhny concedes , easy win for wawrinkathe new indian expresswawrinka through to chennai quarterssupersportsee all 53 sourcesrelated stanislas wawrinka new carpha lab to help region respond to health threats letter : heberprot-p , can we expect it just in time for the next elections ?
carpha and coted agree to tackle obesity in the caribbean pancap highlights reduction in new hiv / aids infections in the caribbean jamaica 's health minister praises paho and who for support to caricom indianapolis has 140 homicides so far this year mon dec 30 , 2013 7 : 12 pm est 19k hoosiers see end to extended jobless benefits sat dec 28 , 2013 3 : 12 pm est police file on newtown yields chilling portrait of shooter fri dec 27 , 2013 7 : 12 pm est former us rep. andy jacobs ’ funeral set for friday mon dec 30 , 2013 5 : 12 pm est ford to be 2013 ’ s best-selling car brand in u.s. mon dec 30 , 2013 5 : 12 pm est indiana ’ s williams dam could power up again sun dec 29 , 2013 9 : 12 pm est man ’ s genitals cut with box cutter mon dec 30 , 2013 3 : 12 pm est magnet therapy knocks out migraines mon dec 30 , 2013 7 : 12 pm est impd ids man found killed on sidewalk mon dec 30 , 2013 5 : 12 pm est man ’ s penis cut after alleged molesting mon dec 30 , 2013 1 : 12 pm est crime is down , but decline lags in ny neighborhood mon dec 30 , 2013 9 : 12 pm est hoosiers lose federal jobless benefits mon dec 30 , 2013 7 : 12 pm est hoosiers rush to donate and deduct mon dec 30 , 2013 7 : 12 pm est celebrating the community and culture of kwanzaa in jeffersonville mon dec 30 , 2013 07 : 12 am est dolls on the docket in jeffersonville sun dec 29 , 2013 5 : 12 pm est life of charlestown firefighter celebrated fri dec 27 , 2013 11 : 12 pm est a vacation from vacation in new albany fri dec 27 , 2013 07 : 12 am est critters invade christmas week in jeffersonville tue dec 24 , 2013 07 : 12 am est two die in head-on collision in southern indiana mon dec 30 , 2013 5 : 12 pm est new year ’ s closings in southern indiana mon dec 30 , 2013 11 : 12 am est terms of service mon dec 26 , 2011 10 : 47 am est ex-indiana lawmaker faces charge of soliciting sex fri dec 9 , 2011 01 : 12 am est heimlich saves choking broadcaster mon dec 30 , 2013 7 : 12 pm est honkers cited , fined for roaches mon dec 30 , 2013 3 : 12 pm est merrifield ice rink opens for season mon dec 30 , 2013 3 : 12 pm est youths needed for nrc program mon dec 30 , 2013 1 : 12 pm est feverish in the run-up to the local elections in november , ali bongo has brought in his half-sister to bolster his pr team . ( ... )
buoyed by his victory over addax , gabon ’ s oil minister etienne ngoubou flew to the united states at the end of september to once again try to persuade some majors to explore in his ( ... )
the french oil firm maurel & prom has appointed a new chief to see to its business ( ... ) 2.it is unionist cowardice that is largely to blame for the failure ...
17.richard haass talks : despite a lot of seemingly tireless work , it gradually ...
homehomehot topics ( 1 new ) current affairsworld newsbusiness & # 38 ; financeindustry sectorstechnologysciencesportlifestyleentertainment & # 38 ; artsworld newsworld newseuropenorth americalatin americacaribbeanasiaafricamiddle eastsouth pacificeuropeeuropewesternnortherneasternwestern europewestern europealbaniaaustriabelgiumcroatiacyprusfrancegermanygibraltargreeceitalykosovomacedoniamaltamontenegronetherlandsportugalrepublic of irelandserbiasloveniaspainswitzerlandunited kingdombalkansunited kingdomscotlandenglandnorthern irelandwales i posted my opionon and it didn 't match up with someone who is always putting their two cents in so my personal life and family was brought into the conversation when it had absolutely no relevence in the topic .
commissioning group is criticised for ‘ cloak of secrecy ’ surrounding new medical centre for buckingham steeple claydon teenager to appear in royal institution christmas lecture on bbc the parliamentary standing committee on energy and minerals has thrown a challenge to the government on the involvement of local companies in the production of natural gas mainly in the southern region of the country .
elaborating , mwambalaswa said mistakes of non-involvement of locals were committed in the recent past in the mining sector & ldquo ; and it would be shameful to repeat it again in the oil and gas sector . & rdquo ; he related that recommendation to the proliferation of substandard fuel dispensing units which endangers the quality of oil sold to the public , he added .
plan caracas rueda libre busca masificar el ciclismo el plan caracas rueda libre , impulsado por la alcaldía del municipio libertador , busca masificar el ciclismo y servir para la recreación del pueblo venezolano en ... 136 familias recibieron llaves de sus viviendas en nuevo circo " como parte de la gran misión vivienda venezuela estamos haciendo la entrega de 136 apartamentos , de los cuales 124 son de 2 habitaciones y 12 de 3 habitaciones ... hallan en arepera en caracas 2.000 kilos de alimentos sustraídos de mercalen la madrugada de este sabado efectivos de la guardia nacional bolivariana hallaron 2.000 mil kilos de alimentos sustraídos de la red pública de mercados de alimentos ( ...
136 familias recibieron llaves de sus viviendas en nuevo circo hallan en arepera en caracas 2.000 kilos de alimentos sustraídos de mercal prevén producir 6.600 kilos de tomates en casa de cultivo de carretera mamera-el junquito esta casa del cultivo se suma a las 39.147 unidades de producción agrícola urbana que existen en el país .
la meta es llegar a las 80.000 unidades de producción en 2014 desde este viernes se celebra el año nuevo en el warairarepano en víspera de año nuevo el sistema teleférico warairarepano en caracas ofrece a sus visitantes diversas actividades recreativas y culturales a partir de este viernes 27 de diciembre alcaldía de caracas realizará descuentos por pronto pago en impuestos para vehículos e inmuebles a partir del 2 de enero de 2014 los contribuyentes del municipio bolivariano libertador tendrán descuentos por el pronto pago de sus impuestos para vehículos y para los inmuebles urbanos los usuarios de las principales plazas de la ciudad capital y otros espacios recuperados por el gobierno nacional manifestaron este miércoles que en navidad estos sitios son la mejor opción para el encuentro y la recreación feria navideña expende hoy alimentos a precios justos en plaza diego ibarra de caracas comuneros de barinas denuncian agresiones por parte del alcalde de derecha ronald aguilarvoceros de las comunas simón bolívar y ezequiel zamora , ubicadas en el municipio antonio josé de sucre del estado barinas , denunciaron que el pasado 22 de diciembre el ... tsj declara inadmisible acción de amparo interpuesta por julio borgesla demanda fue distribuida al juzgado quinto de primera instancia municipal en funciones de control del referido circuito , que indicó que existe un conflicto de ... leopoldo puchi : en la mud las derrotas de la derecha son huérfanasen su columna enfoque , publicada este jueves en el diario últimas noticias , expresó que " en la oposición ya nadie se acuerda de que la línea del plebiscito era ...
comuneros de barinas denuncian agresiones por parte del alcalde de derecha ronald aguilar tsj declara inadmisible acción de amparo interpuesta por julio borges leopoldo puchi : en la mud las derrotas de la derecha son huérfanas aurora morales : capriles se burla del consejo legislativo de miranda “ capriles ha hecho una burla del consejo legislativo ” , sostuvo la presidenta del consejo legislativo de miranda , quien acotó que el gobernador tiene el deber de buscar las soluciones para el pueblo de miranda y no sólo la confrontación héctor navarro : desgaste político de la mud mantiene a la oposición en un derrota constante la directiva política de la llamada mesa de la unidad ( mud ) , que propuso la candidatura de henrique capriles radonski en las pasadas elecciones presidenciales , ha mantenido una derrota constante a lo largo de cuatro años , lo que evidencia el desgaste de la oposición como alternativa política el actual coordinador de la mud y alcalde de san diego , vicencio scarano , refirió que la familia salas aprovechó su paso por el gobierno regional para enriquecerse y después ir a vivir en el exterior díaz rangel : falsa convicción de la oposición la llevó a darle carácter plebiscitario al 8d el periodista dice en su columna : " el plebiscito lo ganó nicolás maduro ampliamente ; si él debía renunciar si lo perdía , ¿ qué debe hacer hcr que lo perdió tan abrumadoramente , incluido su estado miranda con 51,1 % a 47,9 % y sin que a ningún oposicionista se le ocurriera hablar de fraude ? "
concejal figueroa : ocariz pretende privatizar servicio de aseo urbano en sucre ppt : transformación de los municipios debe suscribirse al plan de la patria math scores inched up by one point on a scale of zero to 500 for fourth- and eighth-graders since 2011 . the gap between white and hispanic students narrowed in at least one subject and grade in 10 states .
the white-hispanic gap grew in one subject and grade in maryland , michigan and tennessee .
i am a bit embarrassed to say that i have had more than one person ask why i still use the pew card .
after all , it has been two years ! my associate pastor has only been a priest since the new translation .
for all the young whippersnappers , the new translation is a piece of cake , but for old dogs like me , the translation has not come as easily , and it tends to be the small changes that mess me up at times.and since we priests are the ones who lead the prayers , generally we pray the loudest , and if we mess up , then the first 10 rows are going to mess up , too .
so , i use the pew card , and i think i will be using it for some time to come.remedial prayer lessonsince we are now two years into the new translation , it might not be a bad idea to do a little review of some of the changes .
i have noticed in my own parishes , as well as others , that some things are inadvertently being left out .
here are just a few examples worth revisiting.at the beginning of the mass we have the confiteor , which is the prayer asking god to forgive our sins .
there are three options with this part of the mass , the longest being the actual prayer itself .
when we say the words , & ldquo ; through my fault , through my fault , through my most grievous fault , & rdquo ; we should strike our breast , an ancient symbol of repentance , either one or three times .
this is one of those new / old additions that often seems to be forgotten.after the homily , we pray together the profession of faith .
in that prayer , we are to give a slight bow during the words , & ldquo ; ... and by the holy spirit was incarnate of the virgin mary , and became man . & rdquo ; we bow during those words , because it is the precise moment in which god became man to save us from our sins .
bowing is a sign of reverence for this single most important event , which we are professing to be true.when to bowprevious to the new translation was the slight bow prior to receiving communion .
i am afraid over the years many have let this important action slide .
a slight bow towards the eucharist , while the person in line ahead of you is receiving communion , is significant , because you are bowing to god himself in homage.sometimes people will genuflect at this time .
although i know it is with good intentions , it ’ s not always the best way to give honor to god because of the practical reason of possibly tripping .
now in saying that , if genuflecting is the general practice of your parish , then that is fine , but if you are one of only a few who do it , you may want to re-think the practice .
you may catch an unsuspecting person behind you off guard , which could end in a spill.finally , though not part of any of the changes , it is still worth revisiting what we do after we have received communion.it is most appropriate to go back to your pew ( not your car ) and kneel for a few moments of prayer , thanking god for the gift of his son given to us in the eucharist.but when should you sit down ? in my experience the overriding majority of people sit down after the priest or deacon sit down .
i propose that it is not the proper time to be seated .
the guest of honor at mass is jesus christ , not the priest and deacon .
the proper time to be seated is after the eucharist has been reposed into the tabernacle .
even if the priest or deacon is still purifying the sacred vessels , it is appropriate to sit down as long as christ has been brought back to the tabernacle.it ’ s about christcohesion and uniformity are important in the mass , because we are all praying as one body , the body of christ .
when we do things differently than the rest of the congregation , we draw attention to ourselves when it is only christ to whom we should give attention.every word and every action in the mass are precise in their theological meaning and symbolism , which is why we should always be as attentive as possible to what would otherwise seem to be the minor changes of the new translation.and don ’ t be bothered by your little older pastor still using his pew card ! father richard kunst is pastor of st. john the evangelist in duluth and st. joseph in gnesen .
reach him at rbkunst @ q.com.smalltownpapers - the lovell chronicle , lovell wyoming diocese of duluth - catholic church in northeastern minnesota copyright © 2013 dow jones & company , inc .
all rights reserved . alimentos de pueblo , tradicionales y artesanos | tienda online for its ski boats , water sports like fishing with all night bars and nightlife and the odd scam or 2. million tourists visiting a year--loads of self loaders and a few of the old retirees .
even the nice looking graphic artist depictions , one cannot resist the temptation to get in first and buy a condo right on the pattaya beach with a name that has hit the record books , and this breathtaking highrise was to be the mega darling of pattaya .
well it seems as at august 2009 theres no condo complex on schedule and the beach remains the same with waves flashing and waiting for the next project to happen .
[ bang saen bike week 2008 ] [ chiangmai bike week dec 2008 ] [ pattaya useful tel numbers ] [ pattaya digital film ] [ pattaya english breakfasts ] [ pattaya best food ] [ pattaya tesco , big c ] [ pattaya beach ] [ pattaya tourist handy tips ] [ pattaya beach road ] [ pattaya best restaurants ] [ pattaya buffet dinners ] [ pattaya tesco , big c ] [ pattaya beach ] [ pattaya tourist handy tips ] [ pattaya beach road ] [ pattaya free wifi wireless hotels ] [ pattaya best restaurants ] [ pattaya bars ] [ pattaya jet ski hire ] [ pattaya hire cars / bikes ] [ pattaya driving license ] [ pattaya car hire ] [ pattaya motorcycle hire ] [ pattaya pickups & loads ] [ pattaya car / motorcycle reg office ] [ pattaya police & foreign volunteers ] [ pattaya scams ] [ pattaya property scams ] [ buying cars in thailand ] [ buying motorcycles in thailand ] [ pattaya bike week 2009 ] [ bang saen bike week 2008 ] [ fishing news ] [ check out bang saen ] [ more bang saen pics ] dozens of nm landowners battle proposed pipeline | kob.com & ldquo ; they wanted to access the ranch to do a [ land ] survey , & rdquo ; he said .
depuis la mi-juin , environ 1 700 personnes ont contracté le choléra en afrique de l ’ ouest .
ce chiffre représente une baisse significative par rapport à la même période de sept semaines de l ’ année 2012 , au cours de laquelle 11 834 personnes avaient été infectées .
" in 90-91 , we didn ’ t know what we had except that it had to be entirely new because it was the first dinosaur , ” said hammer , who returned to the beardmore region for a third time with his largest team to date in an effort to recover as much of the meat-eating dinosaur as possible .
among the new discoveries is the partial skeleton of an ornithischian , or bird-hipped dinosaur , found under an overhang near the cryolophosaurus quarry by roger smith in the waning days of the field season .
that ’ s in contrast to the early jurassic , when the world ’ s landmasses were sealed together in the supercontinent called pangaea .
" the world was a biogeographic superhighway , ” makovicky said , explaining that an animal could literally traverse from one end of the world to the other .
the big question : did they ?
cryolophosaurus ’ closest relatives to date lived in what is modern-day united states and china .
in the pangaea configuration , they would have been at the far corners of the supercontinent from antarctica .
" we ’ re trying to do the whole mesozoic as much as we can , ” said hammer , referring to an era nearly 200 million years long , sandwiched between two mass extinctions , and loosely known as the age of dinosaurs .
" it ’ s simply two different environments ; that is the reason why you can find so much in the triassic and so little in the lower jurassic , ” koppelhus said .
the cold and altitude are tough on people and equipment .
makovicky said he lost a half-day on the mountain trying to get the jackhammer to start in the extreme cold .
he had to use the exhaust from a generator to warm it up .
" you ’ re thinking in ways that you ’ re not used to when you do fieldwork anywhere else , ” he said .
it ’ s a mindset familiar to hammer , who has made eight trips to antarctica since the 1970s .
the 61-year-old paleontologist mused it could be his last visit , at least to the beardmore region. see when websites have added new content .
you can get the latest headlines and video in one place , as soon as its published , without let you store them on your main computer , in the same way that you the site offers rss feeds .
click the icon to see the feed and , if once you have chosen a news reader , all you have to do is to if you click on the rss button you can subscribe to the feed in news reader or by cutting and pasting the same url into a new feed automatically check for feeds for you when you visit a -------------all-------------asiaeast africagreat lakesglobalhorn of africalatin america and caribbeanmiddle eastnorth africasouthern africawest africa -------------all-------------afghanistanangolabangladeshbeninbotswanaburkina fasoburundicambodiacamerooncape verdecentral african republicchadcomoroscongocote d 'ivoiredjiboutidrcegyptequatorial guineaeritreaethiopiagabongambiaghanaglobalguineaguinea-bissauhaitiindonesiairaniraqisraeljordankazakhstankenyakyrgyzstanlaoslebanonlesotholiberialibyamadagascarmalawimalimauritaniamauritiusmongoliamoroccomozambiquemyanmarnamibianepalnigernigeriaomanoptpakistanpapua new guineaphilippinesrwandasao tome and principesaudi arabiasenegalseychellessierra leonesomaliasouth africasouth sudansri lankasudanswazilandsyriatajikistantanzaniathailandtimor-lestetogotunisiaturkmenistanugandaunited arab emiratesuzbekistanvietnamwestern saharayemenzambiazimbabwe i am grateful to you and the people and companies that made the donations possible . — mar , 09 2010 the diocese of des moines has put the proposed cristo rey des moines project on indefinite hold until additional philanthropic financing can be identified .
seminarians gather for day of reflection , convocation before heading back to school .
deacon zach kautzky shared with the catholic spotlight radio show a few years ago how he first heard his call to be a priest , his response , and the faith journey that has led him to his ordination day on friday , june 4 .
got a vocation ?
an app to help you find out . — oct , 21 2011 clergy tops the list of the ten happiest jobs at forbes.com — oct , 20 2011 the clergy topped the list of the ten happiest jobs found in an article at forbes.com , as reported a general social survey by the lawsuit : planned parenthood defrauded taxpayers in wash .
stateby montana news singer goes on anti-gay rant in san franciscoby montana news to contact montana news associationpremiul academiei pentru dr. virginia mircea | cadran politic home vitrina cu cărți premiul academiei pentru dr. virginia mircea « previousstatele unite ale europei & # 8211 ; soluția pentru criza euro © 2011 cadran politic · rss · designed by theme junkie · powered by wordpressglasgow montana restaurants , movies , events & business directory stateline – best of # statereads : why new jersey ’ s trains flooded but new york ’ s stayed dry “ n.m. is loosening drilling rules , bucking trends and riling ranchers ” — energy wire “ allegations of sloppy work , bias , dishonesty dog oregon state police handwriting unit ” — the oregonian a line of hundreds of protesters snaked through the departures area at the international airport as they got autographs from chamlong and his pad co-founder sondhi limthongkul .
internation airport 99 village no.3 , sanambin panij rd . , klong hoi khong thani internation airport 1fl .
tumbun nadee , amphor muang , udon thani , [ suvarnabumi airport ] [ suvarnabumi airport touts beware ] of privacy and our company will act accordingly .
see faqsîmpotriva manipulării , vol 1 & # 8211 ; războiul secret din anul 1989 & # 8211 ; nina georgescu | cadran politic home vitrina cu cărți împotriva manipulării , vol 1 & # 8211 ; războiul secret din anul 1989 & # 8211 ; nina georgescu pornind de la ideia ca pentru a cerceta explozia unei stele trebuie sa cercetezi mai intai ce a fost inaintea exploziei cat si ceea ce a fost dupa , am cercetat evenimentele istorice din romania din decembrie 1989 in con – text european si mondial , de la inceputurile razboiului rece impotriva urss promovat de harry truman presedintele sua la sfarsitul celui de al ii-lea razboi mondial ( 1945 ) si pana la razboiul preventiv al lui g.w. bush presedintele sua sustinut de anglia impotriva irakului din martie 2003 .
analiza multiplelor fatete ale evenimentelor din decembrie 1989 din romania , reflectate de multitudinea diversitatii domeniilor cercetate din punct de vedere economic , politic , social , filosofic , antropologic , istoric , sociologic , psihologic si de aparare nationala si a progresului mondial , demonstreaza ca acele evenimente au fost denumite in mod fals revolutii si ca in realitate , impotriva tarilor socialiste din europa de est , tarile capitaliste dezvoltate din vest si sua au desfasurat un razboi secret , cu sprijin tradator autohton , din interiorul tarilor socialiste vizate . pe baza acestei analize si a cercetarii complexe a datelor si faptelor am ajuns la concluzia care ne infatiseaza un tablou unic al distrugerii socialismului european .
in studiu se dezvaluie ca distrugerea socialismului european s-a realizat , intr-o prima etapa , pe calea razboiului secret , caruia i s-a dat falsul nume de revolutie . doua sunt motivele pentru care specialistii in arta razboiului modern si politicienii care au acaparat puterea in stat , au denumit in mod fals razboiul secret prin cuvantul de revolutie . in primul rand termenul de revolutie este un concept cu profunde rezonante pozitive in memoria colectivitatilor umane , semnificand , in conditiile existentei unei contradictii antagonice in societate , actiunea celor de jos in beneficiul maselorlargi populare . in al doilea rand , sub termenul de revolutie se ascunde actiunea vicleana , ofensiva globala , a occidentului si sua impotriva socialismului european devenit concurent in plan politic , economic si social in punctul maxim al crizei economice a capitalismului mondial din anii 1970 , pentru a induce in eroare opinia publica din fostele tari socialiste pentru a nu riposta si pentru a pune la adapost mitul americii si al occidentului de dispretul si dezaprobarea opiniei publice internationale fata de razboiul secret din 1989-1991 impotriva europei socialiste si a urss .
ascunzandu-se adevarul despre esenta evenimentelor din 1989 sub continua manipulare economica si politica a opiniei publice , in romania , in mod oficial , circula trei termeni despre revolutie : revolutia sangeroasa din romania , revolutia mai putin sangeroasa din fosta uniune sovietica si revolutia de catifea din celelalte tari foste socialiste din europa .
in acest context , ideia centrala a studiului este ca evenimentele din 1989-1991 din romania si din celelalte tari foste socialiste inclusiv urss , nu pot fi numite revolutii , nici prin continut , nici prin intentie , nici prin urmari si deci nici prin utilitate . in plus , in lucrare am prezentat analize si opinii ale unor oameni de cea mai inalta valoare profesionala din tara si strainatate care , distingand adevarul de fals , n-au ezitat sa recunoasca ideia de neverosimilitate a revolutiei din romania si din celelalte tari foste socialiste si au demonstrat caracterul planificat al acestor evenimente – fara sa le denumeasca in vreun fel & # 8211 ; impotriva statelor socialiste din europa . in consecinta , in lucrare , demonstrez punctul meu de vedere , unic pana acum exprimat public , despre acele evenimente pe care le numesc razboi secret global si ale caror necunoscute si semne de intrebare contorsioneaza inca memoria poporului roman in special si pune in dilema si confuzie in general constiintele nationale nu doar ale popoarelor din fostele tari socialiste , dar si a celorlalte popoare in lupta lor pentru o viata mai buna si mai dreapta , pentru progres social si pentru pace .
pe baza cunostintelor noi rezultate din datele evenimentelor din 1989-1991 din romania , din celelalte tari foste socialiste si din urss , am apreciat ca aceste evenimente au fost o agresiune externa a occidentului si sua , cu sprijin autohton tradator , desfasurata sub forma razboiului secret , ca o actiune ofensiva globala impotriva oranduirii socialiste din europa . razboiul fiind secret , precum un atac terorist , nu putea fi adus la cunostinta popoarelor socialiste europene transformate in tinte in teatrul operatiunilor de razboi secret . continutul razboiului secret din 1989-1991 este pus in evidenta in paginile lucrarii prin formele concrete de lupta identificate , sub care au avut loc in romania si in celelalte tari foste socialiste . formele de lupta identificate in acest razboi secret sunt : consilierea politica , finantarea organizatiilor politice , operatiuni economice , pregatirea cadrelor , operatiuni politice sau paramilitare insurgente destinate loviturilor de stat , razboiul informational , razboiul radioelectronic , razboiul psihologic si razboiul cu foc armat – terorist .
in lumina acestor realitati a aparut si mai pregnant necesitatea de a evidentia ca originea razboiului secret se gaseste in doctrina americana a razboiului rece pus in opera de catre presedintele sua harry truman ( ajuns presedinte prin hazard in urma mortii lui franklin delano roosvelt ) impotriva tanarului stat socialist urss , aliatul de pana mai ieri in al ii-lea razboi mondial . ulterior doctrina razboilui rece a fost extinsa si asupra celorlalte state care pornisera pe calea socialista de dezvoltare .
prin razboiul rece , numit de serviciile speciale secrete ale sua si razboiul ideologiilor , truman a facut ( dupa al doilea razboi mondial ) o neta demarcatie intre ideologii , impartind mai intai germania in germania de est si germania de vest , si apoi impartind intreaga lume dupa modelul german , in estul socialist si vestul capitalist . acest moment a marcat in-ceputul unei epoci de tensiune intre capitalismul invechit si socialismul aparut ca o noua oranduire , moderna .
in lucrare se precizeaza faptul ca in anii de inceput ai razboiului secret - pe fundalul razboiului rece - deci imediat dupa al ii-lea razboi mondial , ostilitatile impotriva tarilor socialiste aveau un caracter disparat si necoordonat . odata cu izbucnirea celei de a doua mari crize economice a capitalismului din jurul anilor 1970 , ostilitatile razboiului secret impotriva socialismului au capatat un caracter ofensiv global , programat , planificat pe etape si coordonat de catre presedintii sua , procedandu-se la o repartizare a principalelor tari capitaliste membre nato pe grupe de tari socialiste din europa , in vederea impulsionarii si grabirii exploziilor razboiului secret , carora li s-au dat falsul nume de revolutii .
exploziile in lant ale razboiului secret numite de dusmanii socialismului “ prabusirea socialismului “ dupa principiul dominoului , au avut loc pe baza unui plan al razboiului secret , in conditiile in care pe plan mondial s-au conturat doua fenomene esentiale : 1 . pe masura dezvoltarii capitalismului , contradictia fundamentala , antagonica a acestui sistem , se ascute . in jurul anilor 1970 democratia occidentala se confrunta cu o grava criza . contradictia dintre caracterul social al productiei si caracterul privat-capitalist al insusirii rezultatelor ei ajunsese la stadiul maxim de ascutire , determinand izbucnirea celei de a doua mari crize economice a capitalismului . contradictia fundamentala ce caracterizeaza sistemul capitalist , de la aparitie pana la disparitie , determina toate celelalte contradictii ale capitalismului . pe plan social se exprima prin contradictia antagonista dintre principalele clase sociale din societatea capitalista , burghezie si proletariat . dupa 1970 , in contextul ascutirii ansamblului contradictiilor antagoniste , in sistemul mondial capitalist , democratiile occidentale au inceput sa se confrunte cu o agravare a discriminarilor sociale , cu declinul general al economiei si cu inflatia , toate acestea provocand o criza de sistem a civilizatiei occidentale . contestarea globala a capitalismului se facea din ce in ce mai mult auzita si o multitudine de conflicte intre categoriile socio-profesionale din tarile capitaliste dezvoltate se agravau . evident , acestea s-ar fi putut rezolva pe calea luptei de clasa care culmineaza cu revolutia sociala . este tocmai ceeace capitalistii au dorit si au reusit sa evite , prin punerea la cale a razboiului secret impotriva socialismului .
2 . in acelasi timp democratiile socialiste , rezultate din forma de organizare sociala si economica a societatii intemeiata pe proprietatea socialista ( obsteasca ) asupra mijloacelor de productie , societate libera de orice forma de exploatare , au creat conditii pentru acea dezvoltare legica , de la inferior la superior , umanizand relatiile sociale . in acest context , in timp ce democratiile occidentale se aflau intr-o stare alarmanta de deruta determinata de cea de a doua mare criza a capitalismului , democratiile socialiste , in comparatie cu democratiile occidentale , obtinusera intr-un timp istoric scurt remarcabile succese economice si sociale , impunandu-se ca un sistem economic si politic pe plan mondial . socialismul devenise in acea perioada pentru occident nu numai un concurent economic si politic dar si o reala alternativa pentru tarile lumii a 3-a si chiar pentru tarile capitaliste dezvoltate pentru rezolvarea gravelor probleme sociale ale societatii capitaliste .
noua situatie economica , sociala si politica pe plan mondial a determinat lumea capitalista occidentala sa treaca – sub patronajul washingtonului - la un proces programat si controlat , pentru a putea conduce lumea in functie de interesele vitale ale marilor trusturi nationale si multinationale capitaliste . in acest scop a fost pus la punct un plan de razboi secret impotriva socialismului . acest plan secret a fost aprobat de sua si de tarile capitaliste dezvoltate membre ale nato si a fost pus in opera , din toamna anului 1973 , de catre serviciile secrete din aceste tari . la acest plan s-a lucrat timp indelungat , chiar din interiorul tarilor socialiste vizate , cu rabdarea care este specifica serviciilor secrete , pentru a pregati in cele mai mici amanunte momentele critice explozive din 1989-1991 , din tarile socialiste ale europei .
analizele si cercetarile efectuate asupra faptelor si documentelor au relevat ca planul razboiului secret , gandit ca o solutie de atenuare si de iesire din cea de a doua mare criza a capitalismului , a cuprins pana in acest moment doua etape . prima etapa a razboiului secret s-a consumat si s-a finalizat cu ceea ce s-a numit fals revolutie . scopul primei etape a razboiului secret a fost schimbarea regimului politic din tarile socialiste si impunerea din exterior a unor regimuri politice nedenumite cu claritate la vremea respectiva de oficialii autohtoni daca este vorba de regim politic capitalist , socialist sau mixt . dupa metamorfoza politica neexplicata opiniei publice , a urmat imediat cea de a doua etapa a razboiului secret numita fals tranzitie .
scopul celei de a doua etape a razboiului secret este distrugerea sistemului economic socialist , distrugerea puterii economice a societatilor socialiste europene , a marei industrii si a cercetarii si impunerea unei economii inapoiate care sa fie dependenta de centru , convenabile puterilor occidentale si sua . cu toate ca cea de a doua etapa a razboiului secret constituie obiectul de cercetare al celui de al doilea volum la care lucrez in prezent , aceasta tema trebuie adusa la cunostinta aici intrucat altfel nu poate fi obtinuta o perspectiva corecta , de ansamblu , asupra razboiului secret care se desfasoara in mai multe etape .
lucrarea dezvaluie , in cazul romaniei , ca asa-zisa revolutie a reprezentat prima etapa a razboiului secret , cand “ emanatii ” decembristi s-au autoconstituit la data de 22 dec.1989 in consiliul frontului salvarii nationale , au acaparat puterea in stat si au abdicat de la suveranitatea politica a tarii , moment marcat anterior ( la 19 dec.1989 la timisoara ) , prin decuparea stemei republicii socialiste romania din drapelul de stat si arborarea acestuia in locuri publice , in starea pangarita descrisa . in cea de a doua etapa a razboiului secret , numita fals tranzitie , are loc abdicarea treptata de la suveranitatea economica a tarii , romania actionand cu docili- tate , impotriva intereselor nationale , la ordinile primite din afara , din partea organismelor internationale financiare , economice , politice si militare , care se gasesc sub controlul washingtonului .
in studiul din volumul 1 exista un capitol special pentru generalul ion mihai pacepa , fost consilier al presedintelui romaniei nicolae ceausescu , care avea acces la documentele informative secrete ale romaniei si care a fost dovedit ca era agent cia . mai sunt prezentati si alti tradatori romani .
in ceea ce priveste uniunea europeana , studiul din volumul 1 dezvaluie ca romania nu a fost antrenata in fosta c.e.e. ( comunitatea economica europeana ) atunci cand inregistra un nivel superior de dezvoltare fata de nivelul tarilor in curs de dezvoltare , atunci cand indicatorul de dezvoltare umana ( i.d.u. ) il depasea pe cel din multe tari capitaliste desi acestea aveau un pib pe cap de locuitor mai mare decat cel din romania .
deci romania nu a fost chemata sa adere la c.e.e. atunci cand se situa in mod practic , la toti indicatorii sociali , ( invatamant gratuit , cultura , asistenta medicala gratuita , locuinte , concedii de odihna si tratament in statiuni , pensii decente , lipsa somajului , lipsa inflatiei , etc . ) la nivelul tarilor dezvoltate iar in unele cazuri romania se situa chiar mai bine , cum ar fi de exemplu asigurarea cu locuri de munca , inexistenta in cee .
uniunea europeana i-a propus romaniei sa adere numai dupa ce aceasta a acceptat printr-o negociere pactada , prin emanatii falselor revolutii metamorfoza politic adusa de viclenia razboiului secret din dec1989 .
atunci scenariul “ europei unite si intregite ” , rezultat al razboiului secret , a aruncat societatea socialista si oamenii ei inapoi pe scara istoriei , sfidand si umilind natiuni si state numai pentru ca erau socialiste . omul a fost scos din schema temporalitatii lumii . valorile perene ale societatii socialiste , umanismul , solidaritatea si pacea , au fost eliminate .
studiul volumului 1 critica modalitatea constructiei uniunii europene si face precizarea ca timothy garton ash , cercetator in domeniul istoriei contemporane la institutul hoover din marea britanie , in cartea sa “ istoria prezentului ” afirma ca “ 1992 din europa de vest este cauza lui 1989 din europa de est “ ceea ce il determina sa sintetizeze aceasta anomalie prin formularea “ dispret aparent fata de logica istoriei “ . el surprinde astfel esenta unui act dus impotriva istoriei , care a fost contorsionata prin falsele revolutii din 1989 . intr-adevar , ce altceva poate sa exprime metamorfozele politice si economice petrecute in fostele tari socialiste din europa de est , stiut fiind ca timpul , inclusiv timpul istoric , descrie mersul inainte al evenimentului , al societatii si nu invers , precum a constatat si istoricul englez timothy garton ash .
in cazul romaniei , prin acest scenariu al europei unite si prin razboiul secret , au fost afectate punctele fixe de certitudine : armata a fost incalecata iar sistemul politic si baza tehnico-materiala , care dadeau tarii forta si puterea de a asigura un inalt nivel de emancipare la nivelul maselor , au fost distruse . chiar si memoria colectiva a inceput sa fie distrusa .
scenariul europei unite avea deci in vedere mai intai distrugerea natiunilor socialiste si numai dupa aceasta distrugere realizarea europei unite ceea ce este o barbarie in aceasta etapa de explozie a stiintei si teh- nologiei , cand factorul cunoastere , sub multiplele sale manifestari , influ- enteaza in mod hotarator dinamica oricarei tari , dezvoltata sau mai putin dezvoltata . in felul acesta au fost inlocuite procesele noi ale societatii soci aliste din europa purtatoare de o viata mai buna si mai dreapta de progres si pace , cu procese vechi , liberale , perimate , dar profitabile numai pentru un mic grup al societatii si iesite , in parte , din istoria contemporana a lumii .
lucrarea dezvaluie ca la 3 dec.1989 , la malta , bush-tatal si gorbaciov , nu au facut altceva decat sa concretizeze , departe de presa si de ochii lumii , actul final al distrugerii socialismului si al oamenilor sai , la care s-a lucrat din umbra pentru realizarea unei europe “ intregite ” si “ unificate ” . la malta , gorbaciov a ridicat , cu buna stiinta , drapelul alb in favoarea lui bush-tatal care dorea unificarea europei dar intr-o forma dezavantajoasa , pentru a slabi natiunile europene si de preferinta impotriva rusiei , pentru ca indiferent de natura regimului politic de la kremlin , tarist , comunist sau capitalist , rusia a fost , este si va fi , cel mai mare obstacol pentru ambitiile washingtonului de a domina lumea .
pentru romania si pentru celelalte foste tari socialiste uniunea europeana nu a adus nimic bun in problema fundamentala a societatii care este calitatea vietii .
un capitol important din carte este rezervat razboiului preventiv , varful de lance al razboiului rece . este criticat atat razboiul preventiv cat si sindromul american de superputere care are principiul declarat : “ noi bombardam pe cine vrem si cand vrem “ .
volumul 1 al studiului “ impotriva manipularii ” si-a propus sa fie o cercetare stiintifica a evenimentelor anului 1989 din europa . in acelasi timp aceasta lucrare identifica si dezvaluie diversitatea tehnicilor si mijloacelor de manipulare utilizate in timpul evenimentelor din dec.1989 in romania , care , neexaminate intr-un spirit stiintific si critic si nesanctionate la timpul lor , s-au transformat in perioada asa-zisei tranzitiei intr-o forma perfida de exploatare .
studiul pune in lumina dreptul si datoria fiecarui cetatean de a se apara impotriva manipularii , care este o noua forma de exploatare la sfarsitul secolului 20 si inceputul secolului 21 .
singura arma impotriva manipularii exploatatoare este manifestarea de catre toti cetatenii a unei constiinte libere si active .
tags : împotriva manipulării , nina georgescu , războiul secret din anul 1989 , vitrina cu cărți collections and a recovering economy , according to a new report .
the increases are fueling debate in the states about how to handle the windfalls .
in california , state lawmakers are debating what to do with their $ 4.5 billion more in revenue , which has led to a re-estimation of the california , the rest of the nation showed growth of an average of a 9 percent in “ on one hand , we have slowly improving revenues , and on the gap between revenues and expenditures , which in the long run would not be but the site has its critics .
unlike the one in massachusetts , the utah exchange — now called avenue h — does not vet insurance policies or negotiate for the lowest prices .
built in 2009 , the website was designed to let all insurance carriers offer their policies to small businesses as a way to promote competition .
dec .
2011 : a home for the holidays , and the rest of the year , too indeed , that ’ s solid advice for anyone who ’ s been long trapped in the bubble of “ this town . ”
but the question , one year on from the publication of this report , is whether or not the republican party has started listening to its own advice .
now that we 've reached the end of the first post-autopsy year , however , it may be worth it to take a look back and see how the republican party is doing , following the strictures set down in the " growth and opportunity project . "
let 's just pull one especially urgent-sounding order out of the autopsy , totally at random , shall we ?
if we can linger a little longer in the commonwealth of virginia and on its governor 's race , which the gop surmised was an eminently winnable thing given the quality of the democratic candidate , you can see multiple examples of urgings from the autopsy that went unheeded : all of which is to say that , for the moment , the republican party doesn 't even need to heed the recommendations of the rnc report .
as noted above , ted cruz is essentially characterizing the effort to mitigate the problems of 2012 as something that would squander the tremendous opportunities the gop might reap next year .
[ would you like to follow me on twitter ?
because why not ? ] 33 out of 100 seats are up for election .
51 are needed for a majority .
all 435 seats are up for election .
218 are needed for a majority .
4.letter to the editor : prabowo clarifies i am writing this response to the article entitled ... © 2013 indexmundi - all rights reservedcover story | cadran politic există mai multe forme de a lua țeapă în imobiliare .
fie apartamentul pe care îl cumperi la stadiu de proiect nu se mai realizează și poți pune cruce banilor , fie dezvoltatorul nu-și ține promisiunile … desantul chinei la fruntariile europei – spaime ideologice și opțiuni pragmatice timp de câteva zile atenția mass-mediei de la bucurești s-a îndreptat masiv și spre altceva decât spre uzualele ciondăneli între „ coabitanții ” de conveniență aciuați prin diversele palate din capitala româniei .
e drept că atâția înalți oficiali străini la un loc nu au mai fost în românia de la summitul nato din 2008 .
iar dacă atunci oficialul care și-a adjudecat cel mai important ...
asocierea ucrainei la ue : o pauză tactică , sau una strategică ?
decizia ucrainei de a suspenda pregătirile pentru semnarea acordului de asociere la uniunea europeană , care era prevăzută la summitul parteneriatului estic de la sfârșitul lunii noiembrie , a stârnit perplexitate și chiar îngrijorări .
pe alocuri proteste și chiar furie . aproximativ 2.000 de susţinători ai integrării ucrainei în ue au ieşit în stradă la kiev , imediat după anunțarea ...
cred că în cazul lui traian băsescu mai potrivit ar fi însă termenul de „ batista pe țambal ” .
cazul papici reprezintă ieșirea oficială din scenă a lui traian băsescu în calitate de om politic relevant .
eșecul mișcării populare mai putea fi estompat , însă eșecul „ puciului ” e mai greu de digerat .
și ce frumos începuseră toate … „ rup pactul ” , tăpălagă face spume , „ acoperiții ” ...
mai avem puțin și rămân doar 12 luni până la debutul campaniei electorale pentru alegerile prezidențiale , dar în momentul de față avem un singur candidat sigur : crin antonescu .
să vedem potențialii contracandidați și șansele lor în ordinea probabilității candidaturii : infrastructură , telecomunicaţii , energie , dar şi schimburi culturale .
acestea au fost domeniile cheie care au fost ţintite de oficialii de la bucureşti cu ocazia a ceea ce ar putea fi numit un adevărat desant asupra chinei .
terenul a fost pregătit în primăvară , de constantin niţă , ministrul delegat pentru energie , pentru ca , recent , o întreagă delegaţie guvernamentală , condusă de premierul ...
discursul preşedintelui emil constantinescu la reuniunea la vârf a iniţiativei levant pentru pace globală , , la sediul naţiunilor unite , în perioada 24-25 iunie a.c odată cu intrarea în vigoare a tratatului de la lisabona în 1 decembrie 2009 , au intervenit schimbări în arhitectura instituţională a uniunii europene , cu impact asupra proceselor decizionale în sferă politico-legislativă .
este însă neclar deocamdată în ce măsură această reaşezare este definitivă , semnificativă , oportună ori eficace .
noul guvern al româniei a readus în discuţie tema alegerilor regionale şi descentralizarea ţării , în special pentru o mai bună absorbţie a fondurilor europene , dar nu numai .
să ne amintim că şi acum câţiva ani , când se discuta despre posibilităţi asupra modului de alegere a parlamentarilor europeni în românia , vasile puşcaş propunea chiar alegeri pe circumscripţii regionale .
odată cu formarea guvernului ponta se pune punct oficial epocii traian băsescu .
chiar dacă preşedintele rămâne în politică , rolul său va fi unul marginal , aşa cum a fost al lui ion iliescu după 2004 .
deşi unii ( inclusiv preşedintele băsescu ) au încercat să-i atribuie un rol mai important , influenţa lui ion iliescu asupra psd a fost minoră după “ noapta cuţitelor lungi ” când ... © 2013 cadran politic · rss · designed by theme junkie · powered by wordpress burundi | reliefweb l & # 039 ; afrique et le moyen-orient ont dominé les activités du conseil de sécurité en 2008 burundi le projet de modification de la constitution du burundi soulève des inquiétudes bujumbura , 22 décembre 2013 ( irin ) - le projet du gouvernement burundais de réviser la constitution agite le monde politique , dans un pays qui s 'efforce de surmonter les conséquences d 'une guerre civile qui a fait rage de 1993 à 2005 .
une sélection d 'articles d 'irin sont publiés sur reliefweb .
trouvez d 'autres articles et analyses d 'irin sur http : / / www.irinnews.org cet article ne reflète pas nécessairement les vues des nations unies .
voir irin droits d 'auteur pour les conditions d 'utilisation .
vers l 'organisation effective d 'un retour volontaire des réfugiés burundais en ouganda héritier et sefu , un couple de couturiers qui gagnent bien leur vie dans un camp de réfugiés la vérification des demandeurs d ’ asile en milieu urbain qui a débuté le 28 octobre a pris fin le 29 novembre 2013 .
le chiffre des demandeurs d ’ asile urbains vérifiés est de 983 familles de 3 764 personnes , soit une diminution de 40 % .
burundi burundi - système de suivi de la sécurité alimentaire , novembre 2013 la situation de sécurité alimentaire reste toujours fragile et à risque de dégradation aux moindres chocs ( aléas climatiques et autres ) .
en octobre 2013 , la moitié ( 51 % ) des ménages enquêtés se trouvait en situation de sécurité alimentaire avec une consommation alimentaire acceptable , tandis que 39 % ont une consommation limite et 10 % ont une consommation pauvre ( contre 5 % en avril 2013 ) .
democratic republic of the congo + 1 other la rdc et le burundi s ’ engagent de nouveau à neutraliser les rebelles du fnl la république démocratique du congo et le burundi se sont engagés de nouveau à neutraliser les forces négatives dont les rebelles du front national pour la libération du burundi ( fnl ) qui font des incursions en rdc .
c ’ est ce qui ressort du communiqué qui a sanctionné la réunion tripartite entre ces deux pays et le haut-commissariat des nations unies pour les réfugiés ( hcr ) qui s ’ est clôturée mardi 10 décembre à kinshasa .
democratic republic of the congo + 1 other sud-kivu : initiation des retournés de fizi à la bureautique le haut commissariat pour les réfugiés ( hcr ) a créé un centre de formation à la bureautique et un cybercafé dans la cité de baraka ( sud-kivu ) depuis trois ans .
ce programme vise l ’ autonomisation d ’ environ soixante mille congolais que cette agence rapatrie progressivement de burundi dans cette contrée du pays .
le bureau des nations unies au burundi ( bnub ) souhaite porter à la connaissance de l ’ opinion publique nationale et internationale les éléments pour la mise en oeuvre effective de la feuille de route , adoptés à l ’ unanimité par l ’ ensemble des partis et des acteurs politiques burundais , lors de l ’ atelier sur « l ’ évaluation de la mise en oeuvre de la feuille de route » qui s ’ est tenu du 27 au 29 novembre 2013 , à bujumbura .
american muslim discovered to be a wanted war criminalby jim kouri the detroit detox : no government bail out for detroitby j.d. longstreet is a direct bus from the arcade bus station : nachonchai air .
this is an or take a train from pattaya to bangkok then hop on the overnight to you want to retreat to pattaya good fishing abounds everywhere in safe up to 300kg .
also found are yellowfin tuna ( 20kg ) , wahoo ( 40kg ) and ripleys believe it or not or wind surfing or boating plus the many animal [ bang saen bike week 2008 ] [ chiangmai bike week dec 2008 ] [ pattaya useful tel numbers ] [ pattaya digital film ] [ pattaya english breakfasts ] [ pattaya best food ] [ pattaya tesco , big c ] [ pattaya beach ] [ pattaya tourist handy tips ] [ pattaya beach road ] [ pattaya best restaurants ] [ pattaya buffet dinners ] [ pattaya tesco , big c ] [ pattaya beach ] [ pattaya tourist handy tips ] [ pattaya beach road ] [ pattaya best restaurants ] [ pattaya bars ] [ pattaya jet ski hire ] [ pattaya hire cars / bikes ] [ pattaya driving license ] [ pattaya car hire ] [ pattaya motorcycle hire ] [ pattaya pickups & loads ] [ pattaya car / motorcycle reg office ] [ pattaya police & foreign volunteers ] [ pattaya scams ] [ pattaya property scams ] [ buying cars in thailand ] [ buying motorcycles in thailand ] [ pattaya bike week 2009 ] [ bang saen bike week 2008 ] [ fishing news ] [ check out bang saen ] [ more bang saen pics ] [ more thailand finance news ] [ pension funds ] [ depression looms 2008 ] [ hedge funds 2008 ] [ investing fund guidelines ] why you [ do not invest in finance companies ] [ buy gold not shares or invest in finance companies ] [ thai property speculation & sub prime crises ] " anderson , did i just see you wipe the top of your lip ? "
griffin asked .
choose one of the editorials from the archived list below . the most recent appear at the top of the list .
putting an end to the death penalty in the u.s. a step forward and the need to correct a misstep a century of keeping the faith alive in our nation pope benedict xvi ­ filling the shoes of the fisherman " do not be overcome by evil , but overcome evil with good " a man for all seasons , a pope for our time coming to the aid of our asian brothers and sisters may the peace of christmas be with all of us mychal showed us how to be christ to one another " for the second day , we are dying .
it 's a nightmare , " a woman near the scene said , her voice trembling as she choked back tears .
" what are we supposed to do , just walk now ? "
in a video posted on the web in july , the leader of insurgents who want to carve an islamic state out of the north caucasus , a string of muslim provinces south of volgograd , urged militants to use " maximum force " to prevent the games from being held .
a spokeswoman for the international olympic committee in lausanne , switzerland , said : " our condolences go to all those affected by today 's bombing in volgograd .
unfortunately , terrorism is a global phenomenon and no region is exempt , which is why security at the games is a top priority for the ioc .
at the olympics , security is the responsibility of the local authorities , and we have no doubt that the russian authorities will be up to the task . "
home vitrina cu cărți noua dimensiune a terorismului international & # 8211 ; virginia mircea maladia e veche şi pare că nu se dezlipeşte de om de-a lungul istoriei sale .
nu erau raidurile nomazilor însoţite de jafuri şi abuzuri săvârşite periodic , cu câteva mii de ani înainte de hristos , mijloace de intimidare a populaţiilor agricole paşnice ?
atât războaiele , cât şi teroarea ca forme de violenţă organizată au adunat doctorii politologi la capul bolnavului să-i explice boala şi să-i caute remediul .
teorii peste teorii şi volume peste volume s-au adunat în biblioteci şi arhive vaste transformând literatura asupra subiectului într-o regiune greu penetrabilă .
de aceea văd în volumul scris de dr .
virginia mircea un act aproape temerar .
a face ordine în ideile şi scrierile asupra subiectului e ca şi a curăţa spaţiile lui augias .
şi totuşi , un rezultat remarcabil a fost înregistrat .
autoarea , care şi-a atestat capacitatea de a controla surse documentare vaste , în cartea sa despre islam ( „ islamul şi soarta lumii – fundamentalismul islamic ca ideologie politică ” , 2009 – n.a. ) reuşeşte şi de data aceasta să pună ordine în datele , teoriile şi soluţiile posibile ale temei terorismului .
repertoriul parcurs este de-a dreptul impresionant .
la cele aproape 200 de trimiteri la surse sunt adăugate peste 100 de pagini de anexe documentare .
ordinea şi clarificarea introduse în acest vast teritoriu este un merit al cărţii , care nu face decât să ne pregătească pentru o analiză riguroasă , introdusă cu tact şi măsură .
dacă nu ar fi decât o mărturie a spiritului ştiinţific , ar fi destul să descurajeze amatorismul şi improvizarea caracteristice la numeroase studii de ştiinţe politice .
capitolul definiţiilor , bogat în citarea diferitelor soluţii date , este util pentru clarificări conceptuale pregătitoare .
astfel se distinge între internaţional şi transnaţional .
ultima noţiune vizează acţiuni în mai multe ţări , în timp ce statele au un sistem internaţional .
înţelegem de ce terorismul transcende cetăţenia actorilor .
culege adepţi indiferent de mediul naţional din care provin .
în privinţa unei definiţii , conduce încet , dar sigur spre tema care câştigă teren .
terorismul este violenţă folosită în scop politic , nu este război , deşi are tangenţe cu el .
lucrează subteran , clandestin , camuflat .
în capitolul „ şcoli de gândire ” apar mai clar distincţiile .
are drept bază : ideologia , etnonaţionalismul şi extremismul religios .
așadar , componenta religioasă e doar a treia ca însemnătate .
are drept scopuri imediate , politice desigur , intimidarea populaţiilor din ţări declarate ostile , răspândirea generalizată a fricii şi a sentimentului de insecuritate .
neostentativ , ajungem la erorile care se fac în reacţia şi măsurile de combatere a terorismului .
dacă nu e război , a-i declara război nu are sensul proclamat .
nu va fi învins prin măsuri militare sau de forţă , oricât efort s-ar dedica acestei căi , ca soluţie .
a proceda reactiv , prin metoda acţiune-reacţie , nu este o cale eficientă .
cum se explică faptul că în materie de pace onu a adoptat acţiuni de supraveghere a păcii , de stabilire a păcii , dar nu şi acţiuni de construire a păcii ?
dacă nu este în principal o mişcare religioasă , confruntarea cu islamul , oricât de răspândită , nu ţine .
dacă este transnaţională , măsurile internaţionale nu sunt suficiente .
capitolul „ violenţa ca acţiune simbolică ” este revelator pentru înţelegerea fenomenului .
terorismul are mesaj .
acordă importanţă majoră transmiterii lui .
urmărește popularitatea , publicitatea şi pătrunderea în mass-media .
vrea să rămână mereu , prin actele sale necurmate , în atenţia generală .
cititorul este îndemnat la reflecţii şi concluzii proprii .
dacă are drept ţintă populaţii civile , întreţine terorismul scopuri de a obţine putere statală proprie ?
dacă nu vrea să desfiinţeze marile puteri ale lumii , are cel puţin ambiţii de a se instala în locul lăsat liber de un mic stat slăbit ?
în această fază ni se semnalează doar conivenţe statale .
terorismul este interesat să obţină sprijin de la statele care îl pot ajuta cu bani şi arme .
e o complicitate ascunsă , curentă în şantaj sau faimoasa taxă de protecţie a mafiilor .
de unde dispune de arme şi bani , în special arme ?
oricâtă forţă umană ar angaja în reţelele sale , ea ar fi ineficientă în absenţa armelor , explozibilului , mijloacelor tehnice de comunicare rapidă , a folosirii marilor avantaje aduse de globalizare prin desfiinţarea limitelor anterioare de spaţiu şi timp .
studiul anatomic şi fiziologic al terorismului este realizat minuţios şi edificator .
la fel evoluţia lui istorică .
este urmat de cercetarea atentă a conflictelor şi a violenţei , în care autorităţi ca burton pentru conflicte şi galtung pentru violenţă sunt chemate la bară , ceea ce se întâmplă rar în literatura relaţiilor internaţionale .
capitolul de „ etiologia conflictelor violente ” ne pregăteşte pentru pasul esenţial de a înţelege , dincolo de violenţă , cauzele acesteia .
este o schimbare de perspectivă care mută terenul de la manifestările violenţei la planul minţii umane , unde se făuresc viziunile .
istoria îndelungată , evoluţia continuă , schimbarea conjuncturilor ne fac să recunoaştem că orice abordare pe termen scurt sau eradicarea rapidă cu strategiile şi resursele actuale sunt sortite eşecului .
nevoia de a-l considera proces de termen lung face ca studiile prospective să fie implicate în stăvilirea şi eventuala eradicare a terorismului .
este ceea ce autoarea întreprinde în capitolul final „ evoluţia terorismului în secolul al xxi-lea ” .
în locul tonului dominant al cărţii , neutru şi echilibrat , această parte cu totul remarcabilă sună trâmbiţele unui avertisment sumbru , dar lucid .
terorismul este departe de a-şi fi epuizat mijloacele .
alternează perioadele de acţiune cu cele de observaţie şi de adaptare la situaţii noi .
de la „ reţea ” trece la „ reţea destructurată ” , cu capacităţi crescute de a se ascunde .
gradul de sofisticare a acţiunilor creşte şi în ceea ce priveşte strategia şi în ceea ce constituie mijloacele .
apoi , teroriştii amatori , cu bucata ( part-time ) , care apelează la mijloace locale , improvizate .
competenţa operaţională a profesioniştilor creşte .
au celulare de unică folosinţă , îşi însuşesc rapid tehnologiile informatice de comunicare , vizează accesul la arme nucleare , biologice , chimice , urmăresc procesul de proliferare pe plan mondial , care nu dă semne de încetineală .
componenta religioasă este în creştere , trăieşte şi se dezvoltă pe stratul gros de deficienţe şi probleme nerezolvate ale lumii dezvoltate pe care o contestă . este pentru autoare un prilej de a parcurge lista slăbiciunilor civilizaţiei actuale şi costul ridicat al recurgerii la metode ineficiente şi eronate în combaterea fenomenului terorist . „ sărăcia , încrederea scăzută , conflictele etnice şi sociale , inegalitatea politică , susţinută de intoleranţa etnică şi de radicalism şi manipulare de lideri maniaci nu arată un semn de declin în viitor . ”
iată de ce , pe lângă celelalte merite ale sale , cartea dr .
virginia mircea aduce o contribuţie esenţială la studiile prospective , ce trebuie întreprinse ca simple cerinţe ale supravieţuirii .
romanian or bulgarian moving to the uk for work ?
share your experiences homehomehot topicscurrent affairsworld newsbusiness & # 38 ; financeindustry sectorstechnologysciencesportlifestyleentertainment & # 38 ; artsworld newsworld newseuropenorth americalatin americacaribbeanasiaafricamiddle eastsouth pacificeuropeeuropewesternnortherneasterneastern europeeastern europebelarusbulgariaczech republicgeorgiahungarymoldovapolandromaniarussiaslovakiaukraineromaniaeconomypoliticssport the man who brought hope to romaniathis is kent 10 : 51 31-dec-13 one more last chance : is john kerry on the cusp of an ...
" but on the other hand , the challenge is fuel is rising very fast , so how quickly you can hedge , and how quickly you can pass on the costs are important , " he pointed out. to stay in ] [ bars & pubs ] [ bangkok for information and materials for rcia please visit the association for catechumenal ministry ( acm ) website ! you can also find out more about rcia by visiting acm 's blog " the blog that 's all about rcia " what is rcia ?
below you can read a series of 6 articles which explain clearly and succinctly what rcia is all about .
these articles can also be found on the above acm website.article 1 - to the threshold and to the fullness : what is the rcia supposed to be ? article 2 - starting fires in the rcia : precatechumenate catechesis and apologeticsarticle 3 - grace elevating nature : liturgical elements of the rcia catechumenate periodarticle 4 - the standard of teaching : catechesis in the rcia catechumenate periodarticle 5 - preparing to receive the life of god : rcia catechesis in the period of purification and enlightenmentarticle 6 - deepening in the graces received : rcia catechesis in the period of post-baptismal catechesis or mystagogybrookings register small scale farmers in chamwino and kilosa districts in dodoma and morogoro regions , respectively , said the nature and structure of dadp committees do not benefit them .
wash. man ’ s hot video a big seller on netflix mon dec 30 , 2013 4 : 29 pm est power cut to thousands in west seattle mon dec 30 , 2013 6 : 29 pm est family says teen pricked by bloody syringe found in new sweatshirt mon dec 30 , 2013 4 : 29 pm est danford grant ’ s wife moved his car twice after his arrest mon dec 30 , 2013 8 : 29 pm est washington ranked 9th in volunteering mon dec 30 , 2013 8 : 29 pm est machinists set to vote on revised boeing 777x offer sat dec 21 , 2013 4 : 29 pm est boeing official : ’ i couldn ’ t be prouder ’ of s. carolina workforce thu dec 19 , 2013 2 : 29 pm est xbox one sales hit 1 million on first day sat nov 23 , 2013 2 : 29 pm est to spin or not to spin : does microsoft need xbox ?
fri nov 22 , 2013 10 : 29 am est gates chokes up at ballmer ’ s microsoft shareholders goodbye tue nov 19 , 2013 2 : 29 pm est microsoft unveils state-of-the-art cybercrime center thu nov 14 , 2013 10 : 29 pm est ford ceo mulally : no comment on microsoft ’ speculation ’ thu oct 24 , 2013 12 : 29 pm edt tea party commissioner won ’ t run again mon dec 30 , 2013 2 : 29 pm est serial rapist kevin coe demands he be freed sun dec 29 , 2013 10 : 29 pm est legendary boeing lobbyist bud coffey dies at 86 mon dec 30 , 2013 10 : 29 am est textron : too soon to say if beechcraft faces cuts fri dec 27 , 2013 4 : 29 pm est textron : too soon to say if beechcraft faces cuts after purchase fri dec 27 , 2013 2 : 29 pm est man charged in fatal fox island stabbing mon dec 30 , 2013 8 : 29 pm est boy in auburn crash dies mon dec 30 , 2013 6 : 29 pm est report : nsa intercepts computer deliveries mon dec 30 , 2013 10 : 29 am est microsoft pri0 out of the office until the new year fri dec 20 , 2013 10 : 29 pm est microsoft names jim dubois as cio fri dec 20 , 2013 6 : 29 pm est north austin sloth ’ s fate a consequence of texas ’ lax regulation of exotic pet trade vocations and priestly formation > priesthooddiscernmentwhat is a vocation ? the word " vocation " comes from the latin word " vocare " .
this means a calling , and invitation .
god created us and he is actively involved in our life .
god is always calling us to be what he created us to be .
a vocation is our call , our invitation to follow him.do i have a vocation ? is god calling me ?
yes .
god calls every person to himself .
we could say that god calls us to be one of his children , a disciple , a saint ( holy ) , a servant , and a great lover .
these five universal calls are lived out in one of four vocational paths or lifestyles .
because god created us for happiness , we will never experience the full joy that god intends for us unless we live out our call in the vocational path or lifestyle that he placed within us at conception.what is my vocation ? simply put , our vocation is to know , love , and serve god completely so that we may be happy here on earth and with him in heaven for all eternity .
we are made for god .
we online abonelike-gazetehoşgeldi̇n 201401 ocak 2014 çarşambaanasayfaekonomifinansdış haberlerpolitikatoplumsektörlerkategori̇lerfinansne , nerede , ne zamangündembi̇k i̇lanlarıdünya ihtdış i̇lişkileremtiai̇şletme-yönetimmevzuatnews in englishgüncelyorum i̇ncelemebölgelerdenözel dosyalarresmi gazetetiger monitorbankacılık sektörübilişimdemir-çelik sektörüenerji sektörügıda sektörühaberleşme sektörühizmetleri̇nşaat sektörükimya-petrokimya sektörümadencilik sektörümağazacılık-perakendecilik sektörümedya sektörüotomotiv sektörüplastik-kauçuk sektörüsanayisavunma sanayiisigortacılık sektörütarım ve hayvancılıktaşımacılık sektörütekstil sektörüturizm sektörü17 : 48 - putinden , gül ve erdoğana yeni yıl mesajı17 : 32 - yılın yazar , fikir insanı ve sanatçıları açıklandı17 : 29 - filistinin prag büyükelçisi hayatını kaybetti17 : 24 - bulgaristanda asgari ücret 340 leva oldu17 : 22 - türkiye , avrupa ’ nın 11. zengini ! 17 : 16 - kuzu paralel devlet twitlerine açıklama getirdi17 : 15 - ötv artışı sektörü kötü etkileyecek16 : 38 - sayıştay tcdd raporu : gerekirse soruşturulsun16 : 03 - resmi burslu öğrencilere yeni yıl sürprizi15 : 54 - fakıbabadan türgeve 3 milyon liralık arsadış i̇lişkilerabd büyükelçiliği , lobi iddialarını reddettiabd 'nin ankara büyükelçiliği lobi iddialarına ilişkin " hiç kimse bu tür kasıtlı iftiralarla türkiye-abd ilişkilerini tehlikeye atmamalıdır " açıklamasında bulunduüçlü balkan zirvesi 'ni ev sahibi kabul etmeditürkiye , sırbistan ve bosna hersek devlet başkanlarının katılımıyla bu ay içerisinde sırbistan 'ın evsahipliğinde yapılması planlanan zirve , sırbistan cumhurbaşkanlığı tarafından iptal edildibenin ile 4 anlaşma ve tarım desteğiçankaya köşkü 'nde biraraya gelen cumhurbaşkanı gül ve benin cumhurbaşkanı yayi görüşme sonrası 4 ayrı anlaşma imzaladı .
yayi 'nin tarım bakanı eker 'i ziyaretinden ise benin 'e tarımsal destek sözü çıktırusya savaş gemileri akdeniz 'de kalıcırusya savunma bakanı şoygu , rus savaş gemilerinin akdeniz ’ de kalıcı olduğunu söyledidiplomatik pasaporta gine vizesikalkınma bakanı cevdet yılmaz , gine dışişleri bakanı lounceny fall ile yaptığı görüşmede türkiye ile gine cumhuriyeti arasında , karşılıklı " diplomatik pasaportlara vizelerin kaldırılması " anlaşmaları imzalandıab 'nin sert vize uygulaması kabul edilemezdicumhurbaşkanı gül , ab , " adaylığı bile söz konusu olmayan ülkelerle vize muafiyeti anlaşmaları imzalamışken türkiye 'ye çok sert bir vize uygulamasını hayatta tutuyor olması kabul edilemezdi " dediazerbaycan ile ermenistan , yeniden bir araya gelecekagi̇t 20 .
bakanlar konseyi toplantısı sonrası yapılan açıklamada azerbaycan ile ermenistan dışişleri bakanlarının minsk grubu himayesinde 2014 yılı başlarında yeniden bir araya gelmeye karar verdikleri kaydedildiap 'den bir uyarı , bir destekraporda " türk medyasının gezi parkı olaylarını kısıtlı vermesinden ve olayları eleştiren gazetecilerin işten çıkarılmasından " endişe duyulduğu kaydedilirken , çözüm sürecine ilişkin muhalefetten de müzakereleri ve reformları desteklemesi istenditürkiye i̇spanya için " maksimum önemli ortak " i̇ki ülkenin dışişleri bakanlıkları müsteşarları , madrid 'de siyasi istişarelerde bulundu . i̇spanya dışişleri bakanlığı tarafından yapılan yazılı açıklamada , türkiye , i̇spanya için " maksimum önemli ortak " olarak tanımlandısuriye 'de güvenlik kuvvetimiz yokdışişleri bakanı davutoğlu , suriye 'de , türkiye 'nin güvenlik kuvvetlerine mensup kişilerin bulunduğuna dair haberlerin hiçbir şekilde gerçeği yansıtmadığını bildirdiirak , kuzey irak hava sahasını türkiye 'ye kapattıankara ile bağdat arasında yaşanan gerilim hava sahasına sıçradı .
merkezi irak hükümeti , kuzey irak hava sahasını türkiye ’ den gelecek özel uçaklara kapattısuriye , barışçıl bir çözüme ulaşabilirdmd üyeleriyle buluşan i̇ran büyükelçisi bigdeli , " i̇ran 'ın cenevre-2'ye katılması , kesinlikle bu konferansın ve elde edilecek neticenin ciddiyeti konusunda gösterge olacaktır .
suriye , 2014 başında barışçıl bir çözüme ulaşabilir " dedibağdat 'tan ankara 'ya petrol uyarısıirak , kürdistan 'la boru hattı imzalamaması konusunda türkiye 'yi uyardı " ikby ve türkiye hem fikir " irak kürt bölgesel yönetimi hükümet sözcüsü sefin dizayi , erdoğan-barzani görüşmesine ilişkin ” ikby ve türkiye , siyasi , sosyal ve ekonomik konuların bütün boyutları üzerinde hemfikir " dedi " ortadoğu kritik bir dönemden geçiyor " irak ulusal meclis başkanı nuceyfi , ortadoğu ’ nun çok kritik bir dönemden geçtiğine işaret ederek , “ bu dönem , bölge liderlerinin , bu karışıklığın içerisinde nasıl başarılı bir şekilde çıkabileceklerinin bir sınavıdır " dedi12345678sonraki sayfa dünya onlinedünya grubu hakkındaonline künyedünya gazetesi künyesiabonelikalışverişrssreklami̇letişimdiğer sitelerimizkobiden.comdunyastore.compcworld.com.trcomputerworld.com.trbyte.com.trdunyagida.com.trdunyainsaat.com.trdünya ekonomi tvmarriage in thailand a foreigner legally married to a thai citizen qualifies for a non-immigrant the bank and non immigrant visa .
you need to show bank statements and not necessarily from thailand eg singapore is ok as with vientianne but take 2 .
applicants must not have been adjudged mentally incapacitated as to negate to marry a thai citizen or a foreigner , you must : ( $ us55 or baht equivalent ) at the embassy or consulate .
chiangmai services are if i marry a thai-lady and make it officially in foreigner own business or property then we suggest to seek a prenuptial the house belongs to the one who owns the land .
of course the person who rents land and builds a house on it , can dismantle and move it to another location as long as it is allowed by the land lease .
in this 3 ) if married she can still buy a house but the husband must sign at the land and that if they divorce the house will not go to him ( also the wife must sign at the the law has now changed !
she can buy land provided her husband signs a declaration that he lays no claim to it. in the lanna kingdom of chiangmai where we can set up. to marry in the traditional old ways in a beautiful country .
a legal wedding fee would be it can take us up to 3-7 days to process .
you then choose to have an odd number of monks who will preside over the & 6th vacancy is buddha so offering to them can be in the form of money in a foreigner as best man ? one can say a few words in english and then the wrists in the land of smiles one can have a beautiful a truely happy occasion .
budget at about 10,000-20,000 baht depending on how everything from plates to cutlery to tables and chairs .
we can also arrange to land ?
yes 1 rai if he / she invests 40m baht .
can if he / she has a land ?
yes a good alternative to buying if one cannot predict their the children can inherit her share but it protects the foreigner as he / she has no rights if no lease and the wife dies first .
an usufruct is even a better way of securing your property and now is the best way for foreigners buying [ roperty in thailand. house ?
yes he can own the house outright .
all monies coming in over as being his / her money for the transaction .
it is a safeguard for you in case of she has a will then the children will inherit .
it pays to ask a lawyer to make his / her next of kin ?
yes if the house and land is held in a company. safeguard my investment ?
yes see our lawyer who can make prenuptial account ?
we say no as either or can withdraw & many foreigners seller 's lawyer if i buy a house or land ?
no as he or she will not be working girlfreind or wife if i buy a house or land ?
no use a lawyer to clear for you and transfer .
some land depts are known to support the thai if you qu : costs to divorce if have to go to court ?
most lawyers to assist in a divorce case will charge a starting fee of 80,000baht plus ?
it all depends on the complexity of the court case--where it is to be conducted etc .
qu : can you perform buddhist traditional wedding for m ?
yes if you want to marry in thailand we can arrange everything for you from monks chanting to whatever you want .
1 / .
write to nz embassy for the form .
fees are countries and many you cannot get visas at the airport any more .. path for my girl to come to the uk .
we 're not married , but i 'm hoping a is see if she can be live in england ( and with me full-time ! ) .
if ok then we you could go for a fiance visa .
that will give her 6 months in the uk during which time you decide if you want to marry or not - and marry .
it is then in a bbc documentary 5 / 6 years ago the programme showed applicants at the embassy and one guy in his 30s applied for his thai girl who was 15 and had a child was allowed a fiancee visa ! ! !
she lied about her age , claiming she was the 2nd case concerned the oap in his 70s , one brian clegg a retired british gas embassy awarded them a visa ! .
they met thru a bkk dating agency and spent a few days in the hotel bed weeks later cleared off and found a job in a thai restaurant somewhere in so you see applicants who should never get a visa may get one , and those who honghong : hong kong is one of the a.s.e.a.n. and no visa is required , or at least that is the theory , i took a girl there and i got 6 difficult .
if you 're going to be working in hong kong , the best way may be for you to " employ " her on a 2-year contract as a domestic helper .
she 'll then be able to get a long term visa to allow her to stay for a year , extendable for another year to the end of the contract .
she will not be allowed to work for separation : [ divorcing ] [ thai visa to the usa ] immigrant visas ] [ lawyer costs & services ] [ visas ] [ work permits ] [ companies ] [ limited partnerships ] [ tourist visas ] [ residency visa ] [ 1 year visa ] [ thai license ] [ company tax ] [ income tax ] [ company vat ] [ read expats newsboard ] [ chiangmai ] [ condos & rentals ] [ leasing land ] [ thai products ] [ arriving bangkok ] [ see online ads ] [ back to exporters list ] [ chiangmai ] [ fishing ] [ clothing ] [ aircraft ownership ] [ oil paintings ] [ wood doors ] [ motorcycle exports ] [ spare wheel covers ] [ canned food products ] [ renting or buying real estate ] [ sandstone ] [ ice boxes & eskies ] [ bike t shirts ] [ jeans & designer wear ] [ designer jeans ] i toolboxes i russian helicopter sales i wheelie bins i portable homes / offices ] [ genuine home furniture plastics company ] [ shop & showroom fittings ] [ china minibikes & off roaders ] [ oil paintings & reproductions ] [ funeral rotomolded windows & doors ] [ digital keyless door locks ] [ flipflops ] [ parquet flooring ] [ baby and children clothes ] [ rubber keyrings ] [ t shirts / polo shirts ] [ exporting cars & pickups ] [ tank tops ] [ lacquerware of privacy and our company will act accordingly .
see faqs comoros news headlines sayyid fahd leads omani side in talks with comoros delegation ( menafn - muscat daily ) his majesty sultan qaboos bin said received president dr ikililou dhoinine of comoros at hisn al shumoukh in manah on sunday evening .
during the audience , b ... ( 12 / 16 / 2013 3 : 39 : 24 am ) 7.algeciras bunker fuel premiums plunge in 2013 as competition intensifies 8.and the award for ' best island of the year ' goes to niijima homehomehot topics ( 1 new ) current affairsworld newsbusiness & # 38 ; financeindustry sectorstechnologysciencesportlifestyleentertainment & # 38 ; artsworld newsworld newseuropenorth americalatin americacaribbeanasiaafricamiddle eastsouth pacificeuropeeuropewesternnortherneasternwestern europealbaniaaustriabelgiumcroatiacyprusfrancegermanygibraltargreeceitalykosovomacedoniamaltamontenegronetherlandsportugalrepublic of irelandserbiasloveniaspainswitzerlandunited kingdombalkans “ it ’ s way too early .
( legislators ) need to sit on their hands , ” he said .
no one was hurt in the incident , but the house was deemed unliveable and unsafe for the family to stay in .
2013 has a near-record dry conclusion mon dec 30 , 2013 2 : 24 pm est odot not at fault in bus crash mon dec 30 , 2013 12 : 24 pm est baker wrestlers 13th at pendleton sun dec 29 , 2013 2 : 24 pm est bulldogs struggle at fruitland sun dec 29 , 2013 12 : 24 pm est cape arago crash lands two in hospital mon dec 30 , 2013 8 : 24 pm est a glimpse of gray mon dec 30 , 2013 12 : 24 pm est gauging local economy ’ s future a tricky task sat dec 28 , 2013 10 : 24 am est corvallis limits sales , use of electronic cigarettes mon dec 30 , 2013 10 : 24 pm est chad drive sitepicked for clinic fri mar 1 , 2013 04 : 24 am est ready to celebrate a new year ?
mon dec 30 , 2013 4 : 24 pm est man killed in thursday train collision in chiloquin mon dec 30 , 2013 2 : 24 pm est want to volunteer ?
here ’ s how sun dec 29 , 2013 04 : 24 am est kerby puts name in hat for district 9 sun dec 29 , 2013 02 : 24 am est ymca new year ’ s eve party - east coast new year ’ s mon dec 30 , 2013 06 : 24 am est ex-teacher ’ s ’ gift ’ prompts court ruling mon dec 30 , 2013 12 : 24 pm est rss terms of service irin | africa | great lakes | burundi austria 's marlies schild beats us teen mikaela shiffrin to win record 35th world cup slalom eutrogia is a genus of moths of the noctuidae family .
spike is a juvenile delinquent who picks on elvis and is mostly on moore 's side .
dhaid , or al dhaid , is the capital of the central district of the emirate of sharjah .
it is a large agricultural town surrounded by fertile land .
it is sixty ...
this video shows how to use the special pages to find maintenance work in the wiki .
you can go to this link if you did not see how to in the video : http : / / mu ...
" boom shack-a-lak " is a 1993 single by apache indian .
the song was included on his ep nuff vibes .
it is his biggest hit in the uk , reaching number 5 in the c ...
djordje prudnikoff = ђорђе прудникофф from wikipedia , the free encyclopedia http : / / en.wiki ...
there are lots of ideas of how to prevent unauthorized gun use , and in fact there is even a wikipedia page that describes a few of them .
of course , there ’ s the obvious solution of keeping guns in a safe .
gun safes do a lot to prevent theft or misappropriation by a family member .
some companies have worked out ways to ...... ( size : 1.7kb ) among his many honors , paul is one of a handful of artists with a permanent , stand-alone exhibit in the rock and roll hall of fame .
he is prominently named by the music museum on its website as an " architect " and a " key inductee " along with sam phillips and alan freed .
g. dep was subsequently dropped from bad boy records .
g. dep and loon released independent album bad boy in 2007 .
privacy policyterms of useabout uscontact usemploymentlinksventure marketing © 2013 bhg , inc . all rights reserved . irin | education if the jackson women ’ s health organization closes , the state would be the only one in the country without a provider .
homehomehot topics ( 1 new ) current affairsworld newsbusiness & # 38 ; financeindustry sectorstechnologysciencesportlifestyleentertainment & # 38 ; artsworld newsworld newseuropenorth americalatin americacaribbeanasiaafricamiddle eastsouth pacificasiaasiaafghanistanarmeniaazerbaijanbangladeshbhutanburmacambodiacentral asiachagos islandschinaeast timorhong kongindiaindonesiajapankashmirkazakhstankoreakurdistanmalaysianepalmongolianorth koreapakistanphilippinessingaporesri lankathailandtaiwantibetturkeyvietnamarmeniasport but the current consensus of experts is that coal may not be in quite as much trouble as its supporters sometimes claim — or as its enemies might wish .
many of the oldest coal-fired power units are shutting down across the country , and few new coal plants are likely to be built in the future .
but that trend was well underway before the epa rolled out its new regulations .
the reason is that the abundance of cheap natural gas is pricing coal out of the market .
“ it has nothing to do with the epa regulations , ” hanger says .
“ it has everything to do with the shale-gas revolution . ” renewable energy advocates will be looking to michigan on tuesday ( november 6 ) , hoping its voters validate a bold experiment in growing the state ’ s renewable energy portfolio : if at first you ’ re stymied at the statehouse , just but it on the ballot — and in the constitution .
wow & # 8211 ; what a wild weekend it was in waterton !
a weekend to remember & # 8230 ; for all the wrong reasons legal status of russian airbase in belarus to be determined russia pledges up to $ 2bln in new loan for belarus homehomehot topics ( 1 new ) current affairsworld newsbusiness & # 38 ; financeindustry sectorstechnologysciencesportlifestyleentertainment & # 38 ; artsworld newsworld newseuropenorth americalatin americacaribbeanasiaafricamiddle eastsouth pacificeuropeeuropewesternnortherneasterneastern europeeastern europebelarusbulgariaczech republicgeorgiahungarymoldovapolandromaniarussiaslovakiaukrainebelaruseconomypoliticssport russia leading the way in protectionist policiesirish examiner 00 : 19 31-dec-13 wages drop for yorkshire workersthe press , yorkyorkshire and the humber reels from 15.4 % fall in real wagesbeverley guardiansee all 38 sourcesrelated gmb music creative commons license arabic by mirek krawcyzk and arabic rap by mazy abu dhabi , u.a.e - the video shows the highlights of the city , the key attract ...
this is a travel video of our short stay in the united arab emirates in august 2012 .
it is a bit different to the once i made before , since it is hosted by m ...
das leben der millardäre in abu dhabi - deutsche auswanderer berichten - hd deutsche dokumentation liken & favorisieren hilft mir sehr !
vielen dank im voraus !
abonnieren für mehr ! !
die besten dokus findet ihr auf diesem kanal !
mit einem von pp performance hochgezüchteten bmw x6m taucht matthias in die highspeed-welt der reichen araber ein .
auf dem dragstrip versägt er damit sogar einen scheich der herrscherfamilie .
" grip - das motormagazin " , immer sonntags um 18.00 uhr im tv bei rtl2 .
abu dhabi sehenswürdigkeiten - abu dhabi , abu dhabi , vereinigte arabische emirate - urlaub check out the new yas waterworld in abu dhabi .
we visited the park over the weekend and let me say this , they have done a great job !
this place is excellent !
etihad towers , abu dhabi , uae - unravel travel tv property abu dhabi .
younis khan hit a brilliant hundred and misbah-ul haq a chancy fifty as pakistan established a lead on the second day of the first test in abu dhabi on wednesday .
younis was unbeaten on 103 for his 23rd hundred and misbah was 74 not out as pakistan reached 251-3 at tea in reply to sri lanka 's first innings total of 204 ...
he has also hit a six ... .... ( size : 1.9kb ) ... fightback against pakistan by grabbing two early wickets on the second day of the first test in abu dhabi on wednesday .... ( size : 0.6kb ) no we 're going asian ( ? ) in abu dhabithere 's men from every nation if ( ? )
abu dhabiblow your whistle , bang on a gongthe price of oil goes up before longthey 'll be getting rich and getting strong ? ... together we 'll fly concorde ? ... all aboardyou want to go first class , you better save at lastget to the abu dhabiyou want a mansion in beverly hillsyou want a wedding with all the frillsyou want daddy to pay , you better tell him todayget to the abu dhabithere 's ... cheek in our cheektrust your leaders , business menpass the lira , the lira and yenthe abu dhabi , dhabi 's here againfly ( ? ) together we 'll fly concorde ? ... all aboardyou want to go first class , you better save at lastget to the abu dhabiyou want a mansion in beverly hillsyou want a wedding with all the frillsyou want daddy to pay , you better tell him todayget to the abu dhabi . ? . dum-te-dum ( ? ) . ? .fly ( ? ) together , we 'll fly concorde ? ... all aboardyou want to go first class , you better save at lastget to the abu dhabiyou want a mansion in beverly hillsyou want a wedding with all the frillsyou want daddy to pay , you better tell him today however , there are too many garifuna organizations having activities for the celebrations and they cannot contribute to all of them or attend all of their activities .
6 . choice & # 8212 ; you can choose to advertise in any or all of our regional editions ( bc , alberta , manitoba / saskatchewan and ontario ) .
was it her well organized group of volunteers ?
a grassroots door to door effort ?
her record on the house floor ?
her political platform , or well thought out message for voters ?
her abundance of signs , flyers and political advertisements ?
a story regarding a proposal to fill vacancies on the woonsocket fire department with “ on call ” employees has taken on a life of its own , thanks , in part , to a misinterpretation of an article i penned for the september 26 edition .
search for suspects in brooklyn delivery robberies mon dec 30 , 2013 9 : 21 pm est mayor-elect de blasio to get rid of horse carriages mon dec 30 , 2013 7 : 21 pm est mayor-elect de blasio to get rid of horse carriage industry mon dec 30 , 2013 3 : 21 pm est times square new year ’ s eve ball tested mon dec 30 , 2013 1 : 21 pm est de blasio selects farina for schools chancellor mon dec 30 , 2013 11 : 21 am est ’ maybe he had a heart attack ’ : autopsy finds no answers in hollywood director jeffrey ian pollack ’ s death mon dec 30 , 2013 9 : 21 pm est johnnies set to tip off big east schedule vs. xavier mon dec 30 , 2013 9 : 01 pm est real kramer sues comedian over gay taunt allegation mon dec 30 , 2013 9 : 21 pm est sopranos actor lillo brancato to be freed mon dec 30 , 2013 9 : 21 pm est 38 busted at phish concert mon dec 30 , 2013 7 : 21 pm est de blasios plans for new york city schools are at the mercy of outside laws mon dec 30 , 2013 9 : 21 pm est plans to fix a landmark and a hole in time mon dec 30 , 2013 9 : 21 pm est new york citys office for immigrants has become a global model mon dec 30 , 2013 9 : 21 pm est bitter cold returns for nye mon dec 30 , 2013 7 : 21 pm est de blasio to end carriage rides mon dec 30 , 2013 7 : 21 pm est lights tested on times square new year ’ s eve ball mon dec 30 , 2013 7 : 21 pm est nj man shot his grandma : cops mon dec 30 , 2013 5 : 21 pm est mom charged in baby ’ s death mon dec 30 , 2013 5 : 21 pm est protective berm slashed on staten island 's tottenville shoreline mon dec 30 , 2013 7 : 21 pm est " now , in the state of hawaii , we are no longer second class citizens because of the length of our name , " she said .
keihanaikukauakahihuliheekahaunaele got the name when she married her hawaiian husband in 1992 .
he used only the one name , which his grandfather gave him after it came to him in a dream .
keihanaikukauakahihuliheekahaunaele is now hoping to get the social security administration to allow more characters on its identification cards .
powered by phoca gallery american law schools : the new economic realities | brian leiter unmiss medics assist civilians at a cambodian-run hospital in the unmiss compound in juba .
prairie publicthe silsbee bee - legal notices on the bee vp biden : obama could use executive action to restrict gun ownership of americansby jim kouri the black market for guns is leaning forwardby j.d. longstreet the aspirin in reducing events in the elderly ( ... more testing on way for use of drones in air traffic philly.com- & lrm ; 2 hours ago & lrm ; some of the businessmen who lodged their complaints to the dc have appealed to the government to reduce the tax .
amazing intimacy : create a spectacular marriage in and out of the bedroom assignment : the world has been discontinued by the producer and is no longer available for broadcast .
be captivated by the pristine landscape of antarctica and the abundant wildlife of south georgia from the comforts of a luxury , state-of-the-art vessel with kayaks and world-class guides .
rss terms of servicefailure to pay cab fare eventually leads to drug charges © 2014 laurentian publishingbrookings register onlinesubscribe to the bee on the bee seasick steve , jessie ware and soul ii soul don 't quite measure up to emeli sande , the wombats and the charlatans .
most are in agreement thatmerton farmhas kept its intimate flavour .
" even though the line up is not as good this time , the atmosphere is still amazing . "
" last year there were a lot of good bands on and you can get a lot closer and see them .
when it is a big festival you are quite far away .
" a lot of it is family orientated as well .
it ’ s just chilled out . "
" because it ’ s local , your friends can come with you and it is not too far to travel . "
that is why lounge has still got it spot onthis year .
the opening of the beach hut village in herne bay will be a big moment for the seaside town .
it could mark the beginning of a shift in fortunes when the ribbon is cut by sandi toksvig , much-loved back in the day as a captain on call my bluff with the late kent broadcaster bob holness .
it will be the first step in regenerating a town which has suffered a series of false starts .
yet the first shoots of a new start are appearing .
so turn up for the launch this weekend .
you could be in at the start of something big .
east kent ’ s bid to become the uk ’ s city of culture in 2017 was as likely as dover athletic becoming romanabramovich 'snext project to squander his millions .
why the negative attitude ?
well for the same reason you had a negative attitude .
east kent is not a place .
at least then , thedecision-makers would have been able to identify with the ’ city ’ they were supposed to be assessing .
and would it not have been ok anyway to shoehorn in a mention of margate ’ s turner contemporary , folkestone ’ s triennial art installations and whitstable ’ s oysters , as was surely the aim of lumping together a series of towns which , on the whole , are not really that bothered about each other .
but are dundee , hull , leicester and swansea bay really all that superior culturally to the towns and cities we are already proud of in the county ?
is it not a sad indictment of our society that readers are most engaged with their local media when they are on the hunt for a minor celebrity ?
as scores of people gathered to try and catch a glimpse of the reality tv ’ star ’ , no one questioned whether it was worth all this fuss for a bloke whose biggest – and only – hit single came out in 1995 .
so the expectations for lounge were high , as it looked set to claim the crown of kent ’ s biggest music festival .
the four stars agreed to attend the screening as a favour to writer damon , who grew up in new barn and went to longfield upper school .
the q & a got off to a spluttering start , as a couple of the mics did not work and the panel were flummuxed with some bizarre questions .
the greatest pleasure of interviewing inbetweeners co-creator and writer damon beesley was finding out that the stuff viewers didn ’ t see on camera was just as funny as what made it onto tv in the bafta-winning show .
ahead of talking to fans at a q & a and screening of the inbetweeners movie , damonrevealed his sense of humour was still equally as juvenileas that ofwill , simon , jay and neil . & ldquo ; when we were filming on the boat for the field trip episode and joe had to stand naked , there was a quite a lot of concern for him because it was freezing cold in january . & ldquo ; in the scene , he falls into the water and they have to take all his clothes off because he is going to get hypothermia and at one point he stands up naked , to wave back at the land . & ldquo ; we all fell about laughing and because it was so funny , during the edit we wrote in a few lines to the script that neil [ played by blake harrison ] had put a sock over his parts – why would you do that ? & ldquo ; but it was brilliant and it made a good joke . & rdquo ; rarely do you get to see the spectacular tunes of the early days of rock and roll performed live .
save the last dance for me is based on the music of songwriting duo doc pomus and mort shuman and is the latest in a line of new jukebox musical to hit the stage .
the finale of the story , save the last dance for me , is a bittersweet gem , when its remembered as a lament from crutch bound doc pomus , who had polio as a child , and was never able to dance .
the man at the top of the uk ’ s largest independent theatre company and the everton fc chairman – a bit random in many people ’ s eyes – launches his latest jukebox musical save the last dance for me in kent this week .
why did you choose to launch save the last dance for me in dartford rather than a big west end theatre or one in a larger city ? & ldquo ; [ i see myself as ] a provincial theatre producer who has big broadway and west end successes .
i love the audiences out there .
when do you know whether a show is going to be a success ?
so after the success of dreamboats and petticoats , is a similar type of musical like save the last dance for me not too much of a risk ? & ldquo ; you never see a show that does not cost half a million , so that is a bit of a risk . & rdquo ; & ldquo ; because i think they will recoup one day .
it is called a nervous hit .
when it is not quite a flop and not quite a hit and just , is there .
the audience are enjoying it but you are not making a lot of money and you decide you are going to live with it for a little while .
are people stuggling to go out to the theatre now ? & ldquo ; yes i do think times are very tough financially and now you have got all the colossal distractions of what you can see on your tv , your dvd and you ipads .
it is extraordinary what is out there .
for people to go and see shows is an effort .
that is why you have got to try to find something that an audience responds to . & rdquo ; all of this istoppedoff with baby-faced sticksman callum norton .
what more could a fan want ?
perhaps it was just me – my mate told me he felt like the same thing was happening to him – but when i watched , drinking in their sound , i had to avert my eyes .
dale was looking me in the face the whole time .
it was uncomfortable .
as palma violets went on to prove , the positives of intimate venues far outweight any negatives .
perhaps it never felt awkward because chilli was too busy focussing his attention on guitarist sam fryer , as they try toestablish themselvesas the new pete doherty and carl barat .
want to know what ’ s on in the music industry in kent ?
want to know what ’ s on in your local theatres ?
want to know what ’ s really going on with the stars coming to the county who speak to the km group ’ s what ’ s on supplement every week ?
this is the place to find out .
from last minute shows to views on all the entertainment stuff going on in the county , this is the place to find out the real picturewith exclusive images , reviews and all the juicy bits of a-list gossip that didn ’ t make it into the paper .
follow chris on twitter : @ thechrisprice .
got a bee in your bonnet ? if you have a voice , and would like it to be heard , why not consider writing a blog for our site ?
click here to send us a message and let us know !
kent links / blogskentonlinekmfmkent businessin a kentish villageankeeastcliff richardthanet lifesix home ed in kentbig news margatethe green bicycle activistuniversity of kent blogsmedway resident - john m wardmusings from medwayshepway chairman 's blogthe all day breakfastmedway towns district scoutscreative foundationmedway eyestwuttle - royal tunbridge wells social media cafewhitstable umbrella community centrehazlitt arts centremargate harbour armramsgate arts dailykent youth theatrekent today & yesterdaykevin lynesfolkestone geraldwhitstable sunsetskent film officetunbridge wells forumi love whitstablekent weatherisleoneeastcliffe mattersmadkentdragonspacious & graciouskent today and yesterdaybignewsmargatetravelling the world on wheelswitwitwoobeauty for all budgetsthe grumpy commutertonbridge blogthe woodies blogmichael 's bookshopthanet online dorene mcintyre , secretary to the bishop , assistant to the chancellor billings man travis bridger soderberg breaks into home ; was rebuffed by hand gunby montana news attorneys testifiy before congress on mismanagement at the department of justiceby montana news boston bombings : police say ied 's may lead to i.d. of suspectsby jim kouri its current facilities in el paso are hemmed in by the city , but the new mexico location offers the company plenty of room to grow .
the new terminal will let the company fuel its trains , inspect them and switch crews all in the same place .
coordinating infrastructure on both sides of the border can be difficult , and santa teresa ’ s backers say a key selling point for the new mexican project is the shared plan with the mexican state of chihuahua .
“ we put a big emphasis on recruiting businesses into texas , but we don ’ t do it in a negative way , ” steen said .
“ we enjoy the competition .
sometimes it works in your favor , and sometimes it goes against you . ”
“ all our states do — and that ’ s what they ’ re supposed to do — compete with one another , ” martinez said .
businesses can “ go anywhere in the world .
we want them to look at new mexico . ”
luckily , she can finally be acknowledged , and roberts can honor her publicly .
that is a happy way to cap off 2013 , and a way to hope that others will follow in roberts ' footsteps .
" the huffington post " is a registered trademark of thehuffingtonpost.com , inc .
all rights reserved.burundi realities engaged in a civil war driven by hostilities between hutu and tutsi peoples from un and chair of the burundi configuration of the un peacebuilding commission reconciliation commission to be operational by january 2012 and to establish a judicial mechanism to address impunity after the trc has completed its work , " said landgren , " these are important commitments .
the government has underlined to bnub that the trc process must be grounded in reconciliation and not in score seger said that the pbc is supportive of the creation of is also a way of tackling the present and the future too , " he said , " it 's but i think we are on the right track and ready to support the country there . " justice to un high commissioner for human rights navi pillay in geneva on may 3 .
the woodland trust have planted their bins in m & s stores in a bid to encourage people to recycle and save our woodlands .
proud mothers and fathers flocked to sutton valence ’ s village for a special performance of the nativity .
all in all , whatever the weather , you ’ ll be blown away by a visit to the isle of wight .
if you want a break that offers a mix of action and relaxation , bedruthan steps is worth a look .
des algériens mangent en public en plein ramadan , une première plus de 500 algériens ont mangé et bu en public en plein ramadan samedi dans la ville " rebelle " de tizi ouzou , dans une première action collective du genre pour marquer leur liberté de choix face à " l 'islamisation " du pays .
" il y a un climat de terreur qui règne contre ceux qui ne jeûnent pas " durant le mois de jeûne sacré musulman du ramadan , dénonce à l 'afp l 'un d 'eux , ali , la quarantaine , un technicien de cette ville kabyle située à 100 km d 'alger. acquiesce .
" il faut que la religion reste du domaine du privé " , dit-il en parmi les participants à cette action , figurent des citoyens sans affiliation et des militants politiques , surtout berbères , qui n 'hésitent pas à afficher le un étudiant de 18 ans , lounès , va encore plus loin en arborant une pancarte sur laquelle est écrit : " je ne suis pas arabe .
je ne suis pas obligé d 'être la ville de tizi ouzou a été le théâtre de troubles parfois sanglants liés aux revendications culturelles et identitaires des kabyles qui ont très mal vécu face à un public essentiellement jeune et masculin , armé de bouteilles d 'eau , de jus , de pain , de cigarettes et même de bières pour l 'un d 'eux , le président du mouvement pour l 'autonomie de la kabylie ( mak ) , bouaziz aït chebib , a revendiqué " l 'attachement ancestral " des kabyles " à la liberté de conscience " . de la religion " , lance-t-il , applaudi par les manifestants postés devant la préfecture sur le principal axe routier de cette ville de quelque 150.000 habitants , sans le moindre contrôle apparent de forces de sécurité .
et d 'annoncer que des manifestations similaires sont prévues ce jour à bejaïa , ville portuaire kabyle , et même en france et au canada , où vivent d 'importantes pendant le ramadan durant lequel les musulmans s 'abstiennent de boire , de manger , de fumer et d 'avoir des relations sexuelles du lever jusqu 'au coucher du soleil , les restaurants sont ouverts seulement dans les hôtels de luxe , et les autorités tout autant que les religieux incitent la population à respecter le jusque dans les années 1980 , dans les villes au moins , les restaurants étaient ouverts et ne jeûnaient que ceux qui le voulaient .
la guerre anti-islamiste de plus de dix ans ( à partir des années 1990 ) a changé la donne .
depuis , la société civile et nombre de partis d 'opposition avec le printemps arabe qui a vu l 'arrivée au pouvoir d 'islamistes dans ce rassemblement à tizi ouzou , l 'une des principales villes de kabylie , a été lancé dans la foulée d 'un contrôle de police effectué sur dénonciation le 19 juillet dans un bar fermé d 'une commune proche , tigzirt , où des jeunes déjeunaient .
le propriétaire , qui s 'était vu retirer sa licence , a finalement pu le wali de tizi ouzou , abdelkader bouazeghi , avait alors expliqué qu 'il ce n 'était pas la première fois que des mesures au moins vexatoires étaient prises contre des non jeûneurs .
des chrétiens algériens se sont même retrouvés devant la justice ces dernières années pour avoir refusé de faire carême .
" quelque 80 & percnt des algériens sont d 'accord avec ceux qui protestent contre le pouvoir grandissant des religieux dans le pays " , dit le technicien ali .
pour hamid , un retraité de tizi ouzou venu exprimer son soutien au mouvement , " il faut bien mettre un holà à tout cela : on ne peut pas forcer tout le monde à aller au paradis " , la fin ultime " promise " à tout pratiquant .
uzbekistan : the students in the tashkent oblast do not go to secondary schools ( photo ) homehomehot topics ( 1 new ) current affairsworld newsbusiness & # 38 ; financeindustry sectorstechnologysciencesportlifestyleentertainment & # 38 ; artsworld newsworld newseuropenorth americalatin americacaribbeanasiaafricamiddle eastsouth pacificeuropeeuropewesternnortherneasternnorthern europenorthern europedenmarkestoniafinlandicelandlatvialithuanianorwayswedenbaltic statesfaroe islandsgreenlandlithuanialithuania texas narrows longhorns coaching fieldaustin american-statesmanart briles responds to the texas rumors with the classic non-denial denialour daily bearssee all 35 sourcesrelated art briles portune : im not doing this just to get my name on the ballot ’ mon dec 30 , 2013 10 : 23 pm est portune ready to run for ohio governor mon dec 30 , 2013 4 : 23 pm est are top-shelf kroger shares still worth buying ?
mon dec 30 , 2013 4 : 23 pm est cincinnati is ohio ’ s drunkest city ... and can you blame us ?
mon dec 30 , 2013 4 : 23 pm est why this was a merry christmas for ak steel shareholders mon dec 30 , 2013 4 : 23 pm est faa passes on ohio as site for drone testing mon dec 30 , 2013 2 : 23 pm est i-71 s to i-75 n downtown ramp reopens after semi flips mon dec 30 , 2013 6 : 23 pm est latonia standoff suspect still in hospital monday mon dec 30 , 2013 4 : 23 pm est flash mob surprises ’ beechmont dancing man ’ mon dec 30 , 2013 10 : 23 pm est where to donate on new year ’ s eve mon dec 30 , 2013 6 : 23 pm est sb i-71 ramp to nb i-75 reopens after accident mon dec 30 , 2013 6 : 23 pm est todd portune to run for oh governor mon dec 30 , 2013 4 : 23 pm est free cab rides on new year ’ s eve mon dec 30 , 2013 4 : 23 pm est with no taxes , tool biz locates aircrafts to cvg mon dec 30 , 2013 4 : 23 pm est uc students can get tickets and a ride to the belk bowl wed dec 11 , 2013 08 : 23 am est ’ sound of music ’ actress eleanor parker dies at 91 tue dec 10 , 2013 4 : 23 pm est uc and cps remain open despite snow tue dec 10 , 2013 2 : 23 pm est bengals playoff game not sold out mon dec 30 , 2013 10 : 23 pm est trespassing arrest made in bellevue mon dec 30 , 2013 10 : 23 pm est apple ceo docks his pay by 4 million mon dec 30 , 2013 10 : 23 pm est nsa agency said to be intercepting deliveries mon dec 30 , 2013 10 : 23 pm est arrest made in police standoff mon dec 30 , 2013 8 : 23 pm est nky woman assesses sinkhole damage mon dec 30 , 2013 8 : 23 pm est portune to run for ohio governor mon dec 30 , 2013 6 : 23 pm est cop impersonator sentenced for sexual battery charge mon dec 30 , 2013 4 : 23 pm est woodstock police offer rides home on new year ’ s eve mon dec 30 , 2013 7 : 10 pm est tebow time on tv : ex-qb picked up by espn mon dec 30 , 2013 5 : 10 pm est tax breaks to lapse , again , for a while mon dec 30 , 2013 9 : 10 pm est justin bieber ’ s ’ believe ’ flops at box office mon dec 30 , 2013 5 : 10 pm est was this ’ fireball ’ a meteor or space debris ?
sun dec 29 , 2013 5 : 10 pm est is facebook ’ dead and buried ? ’
sun dec 29 , 2013 11 : 10 am est privacy policyterms of useabout uscontact usemploymentlinksventure marketing © 2013 bhg , inc . all rights reserved . the observer , smithfield & west | the valley breeze the book for december 's meeting is " memoirs of an imaginary friend , " by matthew dicks .
the province of almeria continues to be the market leader in the production of the colourful poinsettias ( pascueros ) christmas plants. as the cost of food and fuel for the traveling the husband of a professional dancer who lost her left foot and part of her lower leg and elise spinder organized the “ brownies for boston ” bake sale to assist people hurt in the bombings on april 15 .
proceeds topped $ 800 , and the effort led by the spinder changes caused by the bombings and put the sisters in touch with his wife , by phone .
venezuela says inflation was 4.8 pct in nov , 2.2 pct in dec homehomehot topics ( 1 new ) current affairsworld newsbusiness & # 38 ; financeindustry sectorstechnologysciencesportlifestyleentertainment & # 38 ; artsworld newsworld newseuropenorth americalatin americacaribbeanasiaafricamiddle eastsouth pacificlatin americalatin americasouth americacentral americasouth americasouth americaargentinaboliviabrazilchilecolombiaecuadorfalkland islandsperuuruguayvenezuelavenezuelaeconomypoliticssport if your shipment has been received by customs and you refuse it because you will not pay the tariffs or taxes , we will refund you the cost of the product after charging you for the shipping and additional fees required to return the package to us .
" the huffington post " is a registered trademark of thehuffingtonpost.com , inc .
all rights reserved.english | cadran politic - part 2 deputy constantin niţă , do you think re-establishing a ministry for smes would be a useful idea ?
the end of the neo-liberal age , or the return to the left the vision of aurelio peccei and its implications for our future this speech has been delivered by roberto d. peccei & # 8211 ; vice chancellor for research at the university of california los angeles and son of aurelio peccei , founder of the club of rome – at the conference “ the global crisis as seen by aurelio peccei ” organized by the romanian association for the club of rome on 15th march 2011 at the national bank of romania in bucharest .
i can ‘ t to comment about the feelings of the president & # 8211 ; it is generally unacceptable .... © 2012 cadran politic · rss · designed by theme junkie · powered by wordpressroosevelt county jail to get repairs | kob.com & ldquo ; i gave him a chair to sit down because he had hurt his ankle and he was in major pain , " said jeannie ornealas . & ldquo ; i had an inmate on my porch , and i gave him a sandwich to calm his pain down , " said ornealas .
ornealas said she ’ s glad this inmate wasn ’ t dangerous , but doesn ’ t want it to happen again , and the jail doesn ’ t either .
the father accused of abducting his toddler has told the euro weekly news : " i did not kidnap my daughter . "
belgian kyshan van der zanden has been featured in spanish and british press accused of snatching his 21-month-old daughter laylah from her home in calpe and away from her mother gemma & # 8230 ; he added that the project has backed sunflower farmers in handeni district in tanga and singida district in singida region as well as cotton farmers in kwimba district , mwanza region .
rīga and ume & # 229 ; are the european capitals of culture in 2014 partly cloudy weather with no precipitation expected in astana on new year number of chevron lubricants stores to be increased in azerbaijan the bill which was presented to parliament recently by his counterpart was clearly intended to suppress the news media .
if it were not rejected , it could not be taken to reflect the will of the electorate back in the two ministers ’ constituencies or of the many young men and women who need to enjoy the fruits of democratic governance and the rule of law in tanzania .
those vested with the authority to govern must learn a lot from the cases going on at the icc in the hague that according to the un convention of which tanzania is a signatory the responsibility to protect citizens lies in the hands of the state and the use of power or arms against innocent citizens is punishable .
during the ongoing hearing of the kenya big wigs case at the icc , the chief prosecutor madam besouda pointed out to those defending the accused to think first of the magnitude of the suffering of those who were tortured , maimed as well as those who lost property and literally no dwellings due to the aftermath of the post election conflict in kenya in 2007 .
has anyone especially the political , intellectual , civil society and the clergy stopped to think for one moment why the au should rush to the icc to campaign for africa ’ s pull out from the court while most of the organization ’ s member- states on the condiment are pushing to enact repressive legislation in their parliaments ?
africa must not be allowed to declare itself a legal dictatorship and become a target for military takeovers again .
how should it take a matter of hours to sack ministers but allow the actual culprits from the different organs to remain untouched ?
it is obvious that the standing regulations in the system must appear to be protective .
things will remain the same if non professionals and crocks are not going to be flashed out of the system .
operation tokomeza looks horrible and unbelievable in a country which was the envy of every country on the african continent .
as pointed out by the informed opinion the system is somehow out of date .
as it is in the private sector and international organizations , staff regulations and financial rules in the civil and public sector must not be protective , employees must be made to understand that if one is involved in the embezzlement of public funds or stealing , or his or her work performance is not up to the required standard and not hard working he a she is going to be sacked with immediate effect .
the standing committee on parastatal organizations must be revisited because salaries and emoluments for the middle and the top executives appear to be on the higher side while the organizations they work for are loss- making but even the surplus is not for personal consumption but the treasury .
the new mexico state aggies cruised to another home win on saturday night .
the aggies beat the south alabama jaguars 82-64 at the pan american center .
nmsu ( 11-5 ) has won four straight games and improved to 7-1 at home on the season .
discerning my call to the priesthood in the diocese of des moines has been a long process that has involved a lot of study and prayer .
i began to think that i may be called when i was fourteen years old , but my non-religious upbringing made this a difficult prospect for me .
my parents raised me with a passionate love for truth and learning , but as both had drifted away from the church by the time i was born i was not baptized ... ( read more ) vatican ii , gravissimum educationis introduction ) & ldquo ; & hellip ; the duty of educating belongs to the church , not merely because she must be recognized as a human society capable of educating , but especially because she has the responsibility of announcing the way of salvation to all men , of communicating the life of christ to those who believe , and , in her unfailing solicitude , of assisting men to be able to come to the fullness of this life .
the church is bound as a mother to give to these children of hers an education by which their whole life can be imbued with the spirit of christ and at the same time do all she can to promote for all peoples the complete perfection of the human person , the good of earthly society and the building of a world that is more human . & rdquo ; ( vous surfez sur un appareil portable ?
rendez-vous sur m.huffpost.com / fr / pour consulter les pages mobiles du huffington post .
pilule : comment les françaises ont vécu cette année sous tension , elles racontent et aussi : la réaction des plus grands pilotes automobiles il n 'y a , à mes yeux , aucun débat possible sur une évidence .
ce citoyen n 'est plus un humoriste .
déguisé en clown , ce triste personnage a choisi de se mettre à la marge de la société .
le braqueur de banque déguisé en bonne sœur n 'est pas une bonne sœur mais tout bonnement un braqueur de banque .
dieudonné , quant à lui , derrière le masque de l 'humoriste , a cambriolé des esprits laissés en jachère par quelques politiciens qui - très souvent - abaissent la parole publique pour faire de la stigmatisation de l 'autre , tantôt de " l 'étranger " ou de " l 'immigré " tantôt du noir ou de l 'arabe , sinon du juif ou de l 'homosexuel un élément du débat politique .
membre fondateur du collectif de secrétaires nationaux , la nouvelle donne politique - la construction européenne n 'est pas la seule affaire des gouvernements ou des institutions de bruxelles , c 'est avant tout aux citoyens d 'exprimer leurs ambitions et leurs choix .
on le voit , le programme est chargé et les enjeux majeurs .
ancien président et fondateur du conseil représentatif des associations noires de france international - une vieille affaire d 'espionnage grave vient cette semaine de rebondir .
l 'espion atomique israélien mordehaï ouanounou semble poursuivre ses intentions subversives contre israël , ce qui amène l 'intervention de la cour suprême .
j 'entends et je partage les arguments de ceux qui craignent une victimisation de cet " humoriste " .
mais je considère que ne pas m 'opposer à sa venue à marseille ou ailleurs serait un acte lâche , contraire à mes valeurs , à mon engagement politique et contraire à mon attachement à la république .
elève-avocat au barreau de paris , chargé d 'enseignement à l 'université de paris dauphine et directeur du site internet cultures & croyances laïcité - il n 'en demeure pas moins que la loi de 1905 n 'a pas réellement défini ce qu 'il fallait entendre par le terme même de laïcité .
cette absence de définition est aujourd 'hui un facteur fondamental à prendre en considération afin d 'apprécier l 'évolution de l 'utilisation - l 'instrumentalisation ? - de ce principe .
science - le lumicyano apparait comme un nouvel outil , qui a su quitter le laboratoire de chimie pour être utilisé dans les enquêtes criminelles , et qui suscite un intérêt grandissant parmi les " experts " du monde entier .
rétrospective des moments forts de 2013 : ces 10 buzz qu 'il ne fallait pas rater la quenelle antisémite ou anti-système ?
les chiffres ne mentent pas bourdin se fait rembarrer en direct par son épouse ... et en rigole sur twitterdr vidéocanal plus " regrette " son sketch sur le génocide rwandaiscanal plus les entreprises sur lesquelles il fallait parier en bourse cette annéeafp dieudonné et " les chambres à gaz " : enquête pour incitation à la haine raciale pour dieudonné , la quenelle n 'est pas un geste antisémite .
la preuve que si nasri , tony parker , anelka ... à chacun son explication sur la quenelledr la quenelle , un " geste anti-système " ?
le web se moque d 'anelka anelka : " tu ne peux pas lutter contre le système " .
mais ça , c 'était avant ...
la police religieuse d 'arabie saoudite interdit de fêter le nouvel anafp prison d 'alençon : le surveillant pris en otage a été libéréafp la dernière blague de hollande , le sabre à la maincapture ftvi un pédophile italien libéré car sa victime était " amoureuse " ryan mcvay via getty images ce que les hommes rêvent de faire comme les femmes ( mais n 'osent pas ) getty vidéoavec afida turner , le dîner était loin d 'être parfaitcapture m6 mais qu 'est-ce qui se cache dans la vague derrière ces deux gamins ? june emerson via ktlapopulaire son employeur n 'a pas du tout apprécié sa spectaculaire bande-annonce pour son hypermarchéyoutube le meilleur ( et surtout le pire ) des people en 2013dr mannequins : comment encaisser les critiques sur son physiquejohn phillips via getty images la vérité sur les légendes urbaines entendues en salle de sportshutterstock en imagesl 'attention de ce chien pour ce bébé va vous faire fondrehttp : / / imgur.com / a / 3ifvi 10 astuces pour vaincre naturellement la douleurpaul bradbury via getty imagespopulaire 43bn / - of jk billions recovered , says nagu na gadiosa lamtey dr nagu said it is time for tanzanians to join efforts in order to compete with foreigners and invest in big projects that include oil and gas extraction .
he said the intention is to also use honey to popularise the country and kiswahili language .
online issuehomeeventsturtle lake maporder photo reprintsletter to the editorstory ideascontact usvideos the trojans evened their record at one win and one loss with an 82 to 56 win over the new salem holsteins on tuesday night .
but , friday night the trojans lost to the linton lions on the home court 68 to 55 to put the trojans at one win and two losses .
but physicians at the gila regional medical center in silver city agreed to perform the procedure and a few hours later , eckert was admitted .
" if the officers in hidalgo county and the city of deming are seeking warrants for anal cavity searches based on how they 're standing and the warrant allows doctors at the gila hospital of horrors to go in and do enemas and colonoscopies without consent , then anyone can be seized and that 's why the public needs to know about this , " kennedy said . ... years ago by seeking to become the spokesman for waterloo , ontario-based blackberry ( bbry ) .
but executives at the smartphone maker dismissed bieber as a " fad ...
stateline — state cuts to higher ed have led to tuition hikes billion , or $ 2,353 per student , the report by the center on budget and policy universities , including thousands of layoffs at schools in arizona and arizona froze tuition and fees at the two largest universities in the state , you misspelled the url news : : news & events : : diocese of des moines ain-al-yaqeen | about us | archive ain al yaqeen nurses , family bond online as iranian dies in us | kob.com dmca noticegoloading ... > > view all results for " " enter multiple symbols separated by commaslondon quotes now availablego cnbc & # 039 ; s brian sullivan predicts a lackluster year for the dow but has his eye on mexico & # 039 ; s stock market .
new restrictions on abortion may limit women ’ s access to health care services – stateline goloading ... > > view all results for " " enter multiple symbols separated by commaslondon quotes now availablego blackberry is making a big bet that the enterprise market will be its saving grace .
but the odds don 't look too promising .
newseconomyfinancehealth carereal estateretailwealthautosearningsenergymediapoliticscommentaryspecial reportsasiaeuropemarketspre-marketsu.s.asiaeuropestockscommoditiescurrenciesbondsfundsetfsinvestingfinancial advisorspersonal financecnbc explainsportfoliowatchliststock screenerfund screenertechmobilesocial mediaenterprisegamingcybersecuritysmall businessfranchisingfinancingmanagementvideolatest videodigital workshopu.s. videoasia videoeurope videoceo interviewsanalyst interviewsfull episodesclosed captioningshowswatch livecnbc u.s.cnbc asia-pacificcnbc europecnbc worldfull episodescnbcabout cnbcsite mapvideo reprintsadvertisecareershelpcontactprivacy policyterms of serviceindependent programming reportlatest news releasesrsscertain market data provided by thomson reutersdata also provided bydata is a real-time snapshot * data is delayed at least 15 minutesglobal business and financial news , stock quotes , and market data and analysis © 2014 cnbc llc . all rights reserved.a division of nbcuniversalthe montana catholic : a half-century of service in guatemala ( october 18 , 2013 ) i didn ’ t think at this stage of my life that i would be getting ready to go back to school !
actually , i was invited to attend a colloquium for newly-appointed bishops , to be held in rome from sept .
9-17 , by his eminence cardinal marc ouellet , the new prefect of the congregation for bishops .
i had the great privilege of remembering you , my flock , at the holy places and to the holy father himself .
in particular , i remembered you at the shrine of our lady of the rosary of pompeii , where i offered mass for our diocese and asked our lady ’ s help and protection at the tombs of st. peter and st. paul and to the holy father himself .
so why would an american indian or alaska native sign up for reduced-rate insurance on the exchanges ?
we have the largest export database classifieds in thailand .
if you want in our new hardcopy classified news in bangkok , thailand .
post free ads [ classifieds the for traditional doctors and birth attendants has vowed to curb the brutal killings of people with albinism and the elderly in the country .
tengeza said the allegations against them are prompted by unscrupulous traditional doctors who are out for quick riches and are not dedicated to truly serving the people .
in his quiet moments , president obama is drawn to shows like hbo 's " game of thrones " and " boardwalk empire , " the ny times reports .
newseconomyfinancehealth carereal estateretailwealthautosearningsenergymediapoliticscommentaryspecial reportsasiaeuropemarketspre-marketsu.s.asiaeuropestockscommoditiescurrenciesbondsfundsetfsinvestingfinancial advisorspersonal financecnbc explainsportfoliowatchliststock screenerfund screenertechmobilesocial mediaenterprisegamingcybersecuritysmall businessfranchisingfinancingmanagementvideolatest videodigital workshopu.s. videoasia videoeurope videoceo interviewsanalyst interviewsfull episodesclosed captioningshowswatch livecnbc u.s.cnbc asia-pacificcnbc europecnbc worldfull episodescnbcabout cnbcsite mapvideo reprintsadvertisecareershelpcontactprivacy policyterms of serviceindependent programming reportlatest news releasesrsscertain market data provided by thomson reutersdata also provided bydata is a real-time snapshot * data is delayed at least 15 minutesglobal business and financial news , stock quotes , and market data and analysis © 2014 cnbc llc . all rights reserved.a division of nbcuniversal kiribati crude oil consumption by year ( thousand barrels per day ) it marks its advance to the next stage as president kikwete embarks on selection of the members of the constituent assembly which will discuss the draft constitution , before it is subjected to a referendum .
reuben " chip " unruh of zap recites his poem he wrote entitled " a soldier 's poem " monday , may 30 at the hazen american legion memorial day service in the hazen high school theater in hazen , n.d. the hazen junior high band--featuring sierra moeykens and krista slaubaugh on the marimba , jadynn flowers on the oboe and cassia catterall on the flute--perform " the first breath of spring " during the hazen band spring pops concert may 19 at the hazen high school theater in hazen , n.d. choose one of the columns from the archived list below . the most recent appear at the top of the list .
the charitable works of the church and the common good who can be saved ?
pope francis ' answer - a surprise ?
pope francis - a man of surprises , a man of simplicity the president ’ s inaugural address - a call to redefine marriage the new year - our daily journey to the manger freedom of religion or freedom of worship - what is the choice ?
memory and handing on the faith : is there a connection ?
obamacare - an end to religious freedom in health care ?
pro multis : a reminder of our relationship to jesus as church pro multis - christs blood poured out for all or for many ?
hell and the goodness of god - an apparent contradiction death at rutgers - in the wake of tragedy , a way forward a new name for god - " the god who sees " the pantheon and pentecost - an opening to god 's love barnabas : a model for believers in a time of need health care : the debate and the division in the church a new president and a new challenge for the ecology of man the language of the liturgy : the value of the new translations feeding tubes for the terminally ill and patients in a vegetative state a lenten message to the clergy , religious and christian faithful of the diocese of paterson the courts and the cows : whose life is more sacred ?
the passion and simon of cyrene : the cross in the life of a christian on the collaboration of men and women in the church online abonelike-gazetehoşgeldi̇n 201401 ocak 2014 çarşambaanasayfaekonomifinansdış haberlerpolitikatoplumsektörlerkategori̇lerfinansne , nerede , ne zamangündembi̇k i̇lanlarıdünya ihtdış i̇lişkileremtiai̇şletme-yönetimmevzuatnews in englishgüncelyorum i̇ncelemebölgelerdenözel dosyalarresmi gazetetiger monitorbankacılık sektörübilişimdemir-çelik sektörüenerji sektörügıda sektörühaberleşme sektörühizmetleri̇nşaat sektörükimya-petrokimya sektörümadencilik sektörümağazacılık-perakendecilik sektörümedya sektörüotomotiv sektörüplastik-kauçuk sektörüsanayisavunma sanayiisigortacılık sektörütarım ve hayvancılıktaşımacılık sektörütekstil sektörüturizm sektörü17 : 48 - putinden , gül ve erdoğana yeni yıl mesajı17 : 32 - yılın yazar , fikir insanı ve sanatçıları açıklandı17 : 29 - filistinin prag büyükelçisi hayatını kaybetti17 : 24 - bulgaristanda asgari ücret 340 leva oldu17 : 22 - türkiye , avrupa ’ nın 11. zengini ! 17 : 16 - kuzu paralel devlet twitlerine açıklama getirdi17 : 15 - ötv artışı sektörü kötü etkileyecek16 : 38 - sayıştay tcdd raporu : gerekirse soruşturulsun16 : 03 - resmi burslu öğrencilere yeni yıl sürprizi15 : 54 - fakıbabadan türgeve 3 milyon liralık arsanews in englishon the verge of a new worldsüleyman seyfi oğünturkish foreign policy : image and expectationberil dedeoğluturkey is ready to rear up in foreign policyfehmi koruus agrees to keeo patriot missiles in turkeyluxembourg 's royal couple pays first head-state visit to turkeydavutoglu and kerry address pressing foreign policy issuespm erdogan addresses the public in diyarbakirdavutoglu in washington to discuss syria , chinese missile dealturkey proposes monitoring iraqi oildavutoglu : us and turkey do not have luxury of remaining aloof from each otherlet 's leave the politics aside and focus on knowledge-based turkey160,000 on the bosphorus bridge for istanbul marathontulip professionalists gather in istanbulashuracengiz özdemirturkey 's erdoğan to visit russia to discuss syrian crisis12345678sonraki sayfa if you see any of the following changes , bring them to your doctor 's attention : cover the entire breast from top to bottom , side to side — from your collarbone to the top of your abdomen , and from your armpit to your cleavage .
the president of benin took advantage of françois hollande ’ s presence at the investiture of ibrahim boubacar keita to have a discreet discussion with him about the talon affair . ( ... )
the non-executive director of nordgold is keeping a close eye on the fall in the ( ... )
a professor at cheikh anta diop university in dakar , senegal , oumar ndongo has been ( ... )
in a report last year , the tax foundation also decried the holidays as a way to mask other , broader tax issues .
some one by the name of cole and shpresa vandalized pompey 's pillar , a national monumentby montana news the safest bet is to not drink if you have to drive that night or early the next day .
a boy washes stone dust in search of gold nuggets at an open-pit mine in lukingi .
south africa , for example , is among those not growing as robustly as the rest of the continent . © 2013 cadran politic · rss · designed by theme junkie · powered by wordpress世界新聞網-english news november 20 , 2013 i am a west african with a proud heritage of islam that was brought by mansa musa to the caribbean my history did not start in 1491-1493 but dates all the way back to dynasties but let ’ s start with the 13th century i ’ m saying this publicly to the ngc , who has been labelling we as a minority ...
commentary : the garifuna nation and the fight for reparatory justice january 4 , 2013 let there be no doubt , if gonsalves had managed to ram home the new constitution and dismiss the queen , we would be deeply in the do-do right now .
hola , mis amigos , permite hablar ...
alianza bolivariana para los pueblos de nuestra américa .
the gop vs. the rightboston globenews flash : the budget deal means no gop civil war ! town hallsee all 272 sourcesrelated john boehner punchlines : the budget deal and gop infightingusa todaygop , business recast messagewall street journal - by neil kingsee all 44 sourcesrelated john boehner embattled politicians , a misbehaving pop star and a nobel prize-winning author — the top canadian newsmakers of the year span young and old , esteemed and controversial .
trader on the floor of the new york stock exchange .
what happened to the predictions that tapering would be a disaster ?
jeeyeon park is a writer for cnbc.com.
follow her on twitter : @ jeeyeonparkcnbc newseconomyfinancehealth carereal estateretailwealthautosearningsenergymediapoliticscommentaryspecial reportsasiaeuropemarketspre-marketsu.s.asiaeuropestockscommoditiescurrenciesbondsfundsetfsinvestingfinancial advisorspersonal financecnbc explainsportfoliowatchliststock screenerfund screenertechmobilesocial mediaenterprisegamingcybersecuritysmall businessfranchisingfinancingmanagementvideolatest videodigital workshopu.s. videoasia videoeurope videoceo interviewsanalyst interviewsfull episodesclosed captioningshowswatch livecnbc u.s.cnbc asia-pacificcnbc europecnbc worldfull episodescnbcabout cnbcsite mapvideo reprintsadvertisecareershelpcontactprivacy policyterms of serviceindependent programming reportlatest news releasesrsscertain market data provided by thomson reutersdata also provided bydata is a real-time snapshot * data is delayed at least 15 minutesglobal business and financial news , stock quotes , and market data and analysis © 2014 cnbc llc . all rights reserved.a division of nbcuniversalnewsnow : russia news | every source , every five minutes , 24 / 7 now i lay me down to sleep , i pray the lord my soul to keep .
if i should die before i wake , i pray the lord my soul to take .
amen .
tonight , prayers at our house will include katherine and elijah as well as an extra thanks be to god for humbling experiences .
euro set to be 2013 's top-performing major currencyreutersdollar down in asian tradethe news internationalsee all 168 sourcesrelated japanese yen washington postsee realtime coveragetax breaks expiring at end of yearabc news- & lrm ; 2 hours ago & lrm ; fifty-five temporary tax breaks are expiring at the end of the year .
among the big ones : — a tax credit for research and development , benefiting a wide range of industries , including manufacturers , pharmaceutical makers and high tech companies.related taxes fannie mae settles with wells fargo as mortgage review endswashington postwells fargo agrees to pay $ 591 million to fannie maepress heraldin depth : wells fargo to pay $ 591 million to fannie maesan francisco chroniclesee all 136 sourcesrelated wells fargo berkshire to exchange $ 1.4 billion in phillips 66 stock for unitsan francisco chroniclebiz quickstulsa worldsee all 133 sourcesrelated warren buffett a chain-restaurant new year 's in times square for big spendersby venessa wongtim tebow 's football afterlife starts at espnby ira boudwaythe biggest olympic security risk may not be at sochiby carol matlackwhy the tv of the future might die before it was really launchedby justin bachmansea drones venture into uncharted watersby aaron kurilofflearn more copyright © irin 2014 .
all rights reserved .
this material comes to you via irin , the humanitarian news and analysis service of the un office for the coordination of humanitarian affairs .
the opinions expressed do not necessarily reflect those of the united nations or its member states .
the boundaries , names and designations used on maps on this site and links to external sites do not imply official endorsement or acceptance by the un .
republication is subject to terms and conditions as set out in the irin copyright page . | agencia venezolana de noticias todas las noticias organizadas por tipo de contenido , tema o sección .
es muy fácil , basta con que seleccione los que más le interesen adpi participates in the resumption of works on the new terminal at zanzibar 's international airport , in tanzania adpi , a wholly-owned subsidiary of aéroports de paris , has been chosen to take part in the resumption of the upgrade ( 12 / 20 / 2013 5 : 59 : 00 am ) ron tonidandel in the 80 singles .
john mayotte in sunday ’ s finals .
philipe desilets in the 80 singles .
mike dahm returns a serve in sunday ’ s finals .
david rothgaber , a player from the longboat key public tennis center , won the 80 singles . ( 12 / 8 / 2013 5 : 27 : 47 pm ) © 2013 indexmundi - all rights reservedthe kirbyville banner - news on the bee delhi cm arvind kejriwal orders cag audit of private power companies from ... zee newsafter subsidising power , arvind kejriwal orders audit of discomsdaily news & analysisopinion : on aap and subsidieslivemintin-depth : delhi govt orders audit of three distribution companies ' booksbusiness standardsee all 506 sourcesrelated arvind kejriwal clearing corp gets permit to act as counterparty in fin mktspress trust of indiaccil gets qccp statuslivemint - by anup royin-depth : rbi grants special to ccil as counterpartyeconomic timessee all 9 sourcesrelated reserve bank of india privacy policy terms of service vaticano papa : un año que termina es un paso hacia la esperanza del encuentro con dios - asia news home | china | islam | india | doctrina de la iglesia | economía | libertad religiosa | vaticano 31 / 12 / 2013 vaticanopapa : un año que termina es un paso hacia la esperanza del encuentro con diosen el te deum de agradecimiento la reflexión del papa francisco sobre el transcurrir del tiempo en la visión cristiana .
" preguntémonos : ¿ cómo hemos vivido el tiempo que él nos ha donado ?
¿ lo hemos usado sobre todo para nosotros mismos , para nuestros intereses , o hemos sabido gastarlo también para los otros ?
¿ y dios ?
los " contrastes " que existen en la ciudad de roma.ciudad del vaticano ( asianews ) - para el cristiano el año que termina , el pasar del tiempo " es un camino que va hacia un cumplimiento " , " un ulterior paso hacia la meta que está delante de nosotros : una meta de esperanza 31 / 12 / 2013 chinael mito y las mentiras de mao zedong oprimen aún a chinade bao tongel gran estadista desmonta la retórica sobre la figura del gran conductor , mostrando sus delitos y la búsqueda de la supremacía mundial a toda costa .
millones de muertos del gran salto hacia adelante con la revolución cultural ; la opresión de los intelectuales ; la prohibición de poseer la tierra a los campesinos ; la prohibición de sindicatos para los obreros .
el mito de mao resiste y sostenido por la dirigencia actual , porque garantiza el poder absoluto .
un análisis dolorosa y despiadada de bao tong , ya colaborador de zhao ziyang , por años encarcelado y ahora en arresto domiciliario por haberse declarado contra la masacre de tiananmen.31 / 12 / 2013 israel - palestinaisrael libera otros 26 prisioneros palestinos , pero legaliza 20 asentamientos en cisjordaniala liberación de prisioneros tuvo lugar esta noche .
poco antes de la liberación , israel ha aprobado una ley para legalizar los 20 asentamientos en el valle del jordán donde viven de alrededor de 15 mil colonos.31 / 12 / 2013 bangladeshola de hielo en bangladesh , al menos 15 niños muertosde sumon corrayaen los distritos septentrionales la ola de frío está golpeando a las poblaciones pobres : caritas y la sociedad de san vicente de paul iniciaron una campaña de juntar ropas de invierno para donar a los más necesitados .
hospitales llenos y primeros socorros en las casas , pero la temperatura continúa descendiendo.30 / 12 / 2013 siriaarzobispo de alepo : " la iglesia ayuda a todos , independientemente de la fe o de facciones " en dos semanas , el bombardeo del régimen y los rebeldes han matado a casi 500 personas .
en navidad 12 bombas cayeron sobre los barrios cristianos de la ciudad .
mons .
antoine audo , arzobispo caldeo de alepo : " la gente está agotada por la guerra , el hambre y el frío la solidaridad entre los musulmanes y los cristianos un signo de esperanza para el futuro " .
chinaxinjiang , 6 mujeres obligadas a abortar : han violado la ley del hijo únicono obstante las grandes proclamas de biejing , continúan los abusos perpetrados por las autoridades en nombre de la planificación familiar .
una mujer logró escapar , mientra las otras han sufrido el tratamiento .
lo cuanta un padre : " mi hijo nació y lloraba .
murió una hora después del parto por el veneno que le han inyectado " .
el gobierno local confirma todo .
asia - italiala tenacidad de las mujeres , de la lucha armada en líbano a los " escombros del mundo " el libro " tenazmente mujeres " , de las periodistas cristiana caricato y alejandra buzzetti , cuenta 12 historias , testimonios de figuras " activas en medio de los prófugos , enfermos de sida , leprosos , emarginados " .
como aquella de jocelelyne khoueiry , que dejó la kalashnikov para fundar el movimiento católico la libannaise- femme du 31 mai .
libia - italiael drama de libia y migrantes contada a través de los ojos de la pequeña khalid " mi nombre es khalid " , la novela de mónica mondo , publicado por marietti , describe de primera mano la historia de un joven de 13 años que huyó a italia desde libia post-gaddafi .
la mondo cuenta de la libia dividida por el odio , la vida cotidiana de los inmigrantes ilegales en roma .
en la capital khalid descubre el racismo , pero también la solidaridad y la caridad de voluntarios y religiosos .
nepalnepal , en navidad los fundamentalistas incendian una iglesiade cristopher sharmael ataque sucedió en el distrito de dhading , a pocos km .
de katmandú , el pasado 23 de diciembre .
destruidas también las habitaciones de 4 convertidos al cristianismo .
las sospechas recaen sobre los grupos más radicales hindúes , el gobierno minimiza lo sucedido .
arabia sauditala máxima calificación de las agencias internacionales para el banco islámico de desarrollostandard & poors , fitch y moody han asignado su calificación más alta tanto para el largo como para el corto plazo para la banca en arabia saudita .
para las tres instituciones se denota la " estabilidad " , " fiabilidad " y " bajo riesgo de crédito " del idb .
bangladeshbangladesh en el caos : 2 muertos y más de 100 arrestos en la marcha por la democraciade nozrul islamno se aplaca la manifestación convocada por el bangladesh nationalist party ( bnp ) , no obstante el desplazamiento de miles de agentes del orden .
la capital está aislada .
sostenedores del gobierno han irrumpido en el palacio de la corte suprema y han golpeado a algunos abogados " cercanos " al bnp .
fuentes de asianews .
" el primer ministro quiere dar prueba de su fuerza , en vez de resolver la crisis " .
vietnamcatólicos vietnamitas atacados mientras lleva los regalos de navidad para los huérfanosde joseph danges que sucedió en la provincia de kontum , donde un grupo de voluntarios ha sido bloqueado por la policía y obligados a dar marcha atrás .
uno de los agredidos , torturados por el jefe del partido comunista local , terminó en el hospital por múltiples lesiones internas .
coreaarzobispo de seúl : con la llegada del nuevo año , oramos por corea del norteen su mensaje para el año nuevo , mons .
andrea yeom soo-jung invita a los católicos de corea a dejar de lado " la codicia y el egoísmo " para encontrar que " una vida vivida en el amor es la llave de la felicidad .
sigamos todos el ejemplo de la sagrada familia " .
turquiala " noche de san bartolomé " del islam político turcode nat da polislos trastornos en el gobierno y las acusaciones de la policía contra exponentes políticos son consecuencia del enfrentamiento entre los seguidores del primer ministro erdogan los del imán gulen , fundador de la comunidad islámica hizmet , un tiempo aliados .
una fase política crítica , con consecuencias imprevisibles y peligrosas .
rusiaterrorismo en volgograd : al menos 26 muertos en 24 horasesta mañana , en la hora de punta , una explosión destruyó un tranvía y mató a 10 pasajeros .
ayer , una terrorista suicida mató a 16 personas y ha herido a unas 35 .
la kamikaze provenía del norte del cáucaso y estaba casada con dos islamistas , ambos muertos en batalla .
acciones terroristas se difunden más allá del cáucaso y quieren bloquear las olimpíadas de sochi .
vaticanopapa : la sagrada familia como los refugiados .
oración por el sínodo líbanobeirut , misterio en el asesinato chatah , anti-hezbolá coreacorea del norte , los cristianos celebran la navidad en túneles subterráneos chinamás liviana la política del hijo único .
desde hoy debería cerrarse los laojiao de bernardo cervellera bangladeshnavidad en bangladesh , la misión es más fuerte que la violencia política de franco cagnasso * egiptovocero de la iglesia católica : " la población egipcia está cansada y exasperada por el terrorismo islámico " indonesiabogor , es la segunda navidad consecutiva que los fieles de la jasmin churh son obligados a celebrar afuera de su iglesia sri lankasri lanka : llevar la navidad entre los niños hindúes , aún víctimas de la guerra civil de melani manel perera siria-m.orientegregorio iii : cristianos del medio oriente , ¡ no emigren !
nepalnepal navidad " colectiva " para cristianos , hindúes y budistas de christopher sharma myanmararzobispo de yangún : la invitación del papa a la " fraternidad " , única vía para la paz en myanmar de francis khoo thwe bangladeshbangladesh : apacible navidad para los cristianos , pero a la sombra de " terrorismo " de nozrul islam palestinaincluso en navidad , los cristianos de gaza no pueden visitar belén para celebrar en la ciudad turquíafiscalía acusó al gobierno turco por bloquear su investigación sobre la corrupción noticias destacadasitalia asiala alegría del evangelio y la navidadde bernardo cervellerala exhortación apostólica del papa francisco es un gran consuelo para los que tratan de construir puentes entre sí , sin miedo de ir en contra del sentir común .
la " luz suave de cristo " es capaz de confundir y en última instancia eliminar la luz artificial del mundo .
los mejores deseos de asianews a sus lectores y amigos , que se conviertan en los " colaboradores " del salvador que ha nacido.vaticanopapa : la fraternidad , fundamento y camino para la paz contra el egoísmo , la explotación y el abusomensaje del papa francisco para la jornada mundial de la paz .
el fundamento de la fraternidad es la paternidad común de dios .
" la globalización de la indiferencia " .
el creciente número de interdependencias y las comunicaciones , " que nos hace vecinos , pero no nos convierte en hermanos " .
" los acuerdos internacionales y las leyes nacionales , a pesar de ser altamente deseables y necesarias , no son suficientes por sí mismos para llevar a la humanidad a evitar el riesgo de un conflicto armado .
requiere una conversión del corazón que permita que cada uno reconozca a un hermano " " la sucesión de la crisis económica debe llevar a repensar en modelos apropiados de desarrollo económico y un cambio en el estilo de vida " .
coreacorea del norte , los cristianos celebran la navidad en túneles subterráneos vaticanopapa : la fiesta de san esteban , el primer mártir disuelve la imagen " fabulesca " de la navidad vaticanopapa : la sagrada familia como los refugiados .
oración por el sínodo vaticanopapa : navidad , gloria a dios misericordioso y paz a los hombres atormentados por guerras y violencias .
siria-m.orientegregorio iii : cristianos del medio oriente , ¡ no emigren !
egiptovocero de la iglesia católica : " la población egipcia está cansada y exasperada por el terrorismo islámico " hong kong-chinainfluenza aviaria h7n9 , la primera víctima en hong kong .
vivía en shenzhen palestinaincluso en navidad , los cristianos de gaza no pueden visitar belén para celebrar en la ciudad chinamás liviana la política del hijo único .
desde hoy debería cerrarse los laojiaode bernardo cervellera chinaxi jinping : mao no era un dios , pero su espíritu ...
copyright â © 2003 asianews c.f. 00889190153 todos los derechos reservados .
estã ¡ permitido el uso personal del contenido de este sitio web , sã ³ lo con fines no comerciales .
queda prohibida la copia , publicaciã ³ n , venta y distribuciã ³ n sin autorizaciã ³ n previa expresa del editor .
las fotografã ­ as presentes en asianews.it estã ¡ n tomadas en gran parte de internet y por tanto se consideran de dominio pãºblico .
si los sujetos o autores fueran contrarios a su publicaciã ³ n , sã ³ lo deben notificarlo a la redacciã ³ n , que procederã ¡ inmediatamente a retirar las imã ¡ genes .
la luz que nos da el mundo es una luz artificial.tal vez fuerte , más fuerte que la de jesús .. fuerte como un fuego artificial , como un flash fotográfico . en cambio , la luz de jesús es una luz suave , es una luz tranquila , es una luz de la paz . es como la luz de la noche de navidad : sin pretensiones . es así que : ofrece y da la paz .... es una luz suave , con la fuerza de la mansedumbre ; es una luz que habla al corazón y es también una luz que proporciona la cruz . papa francisco asianews desea a la familia y lectores una feliz navidad y un feliz 2014 spain | economist - world news , politics , economics , business & finance concept of risk .
in reality it is easy .
it is the probability of loss , absolute or relative .
the second major job of a financial planner is to understand his client ’ s attitude to risk .
without understanding this he can ’ t develop a financial plan that will & ldquo ; satisfy & rdquo ; his client .
to work out a clients ’ attitude to risk a planner asks a number of questions like , how would you feel if you lost 20 % of your money in one year ?
how about you were not showing a profit but rather a loss of 20 % after 5 years ?
now the sad reality is most people who go to a financial planner or million $ $ scheme , do so out of greed or need .
and whether they realize it or not they will mislead the planner as to the attitude that they have to risk .
so it is really a bit of a waste of time asking these sorts of questions .
as in reality we are all pre-programmed to a point with an attitude to risk that is constant .
4 / .
and the final and by far the smallest group : & ldquo ; ok it ’ s a bum deal , bit of a shame , stupid me should have seen the writing on the wall earlier .
where is the next poker table as despite it all i still like the game . & rdquo ; the biggest mistake an investor can make in investing is not learning to move on .
winning and moving on is best but not moving on is worse that losing and moving on .
it is the moving on that allows you to use the time in front of you .
not moving on is time and life theft .
now if you are investing , which character type do you want to give your money to ?
the management of vortec were the optimist type .
the best managers of money are the last group , losing and moving on is ok so long as they don ’ t habitually make the same dumb decisions that caused the loss .
the worst fund manager is one who does not know when to move on or get the ball rolling so watch out kiddos you could be next .
so now you see the crisis helps the banks and bank execs not the taxpayers he cited the road as the one from tunduma via sumbawanga , nkansi , to katavi which is being upgraded to tarmac level .
between this and the svalbard global seed vault , norsk people are set for the future . ( 12 / 3 / 2013 4 : 40 : 59 pm ) between this and the svalbard global seed vault , norsk people are set for the future . ( 12 / 3 / 2013 5 : 40 : 43 pm ) privacy policyterms of useabout uscontact usemploymentlinksventure marketing © 2013 bhg , inc . all rights reserved .
hueytown man sentenced to 18 years in prison for armed pharmacy robberies new customers can create an account so that you can shop faster in the future and keep track of orders you have made in the past . „ ich sehe mich als den ersten diener der großloge von österreich “ der österreichische großmeister nikolaus schwärzler spricht über das wesen der freimaurerei , sittliche vervollkommnung und politischen einfluss .
a.t. : seit wann sind sie freimaurer ?
wie hat es ihre familie aufgenommen , als sie erfuhren , dass sie freimaurer sind ?
n.s. : seit dem 22.11.1980 .
meine familie – meine frau , meine eltern und geschwister & # 8211 ; haben es nicht gegen meinen willen „ erfahren “ , ... © 2011 cadran politic · rss · designed by theme junkie · powered by wordpressprivacy policy - barrons.com to deliver relevant content and recommendations .
to make your experience more interesting and personalized , we may use any of the personal and other information we collect to assist us in delivering content on any of our dow jones online services .
for example , if you use wsj.com and factiva.com , we may use your wsj.com reading history to personalize the content delivered to you on factiva.com.
to complete a merger or sale of assets.if dow jones sells all or part of its business or makes a sale or transfer of its assets or is otherwise involved in a merger or transfer of all or a material part of its business , dow jones may transfer your information to the party or parties involved in the transaction as part of that transaction .
not in new york ?
app lets revellers ring in new year 's eve 2013 remotely ibnlive- & lrm ; 4 hours ago & lrm ; confetti and music but no mayor for nyc ball drop sotomayor to lead countdown to new year in times square new yorkers say ' good riddance ' to year 's bad memories in times square arts-related happenings in 2013 had a variety of show stoppers for revellers to experience .
we shout out the highlights , and why they made the list .
from concerts to cronenberg , library galas to parkside plays , we 'll either help you fondly remember the coolest things you saw last year .
surprising number of americans still don 't believe in evolutiondorling kindersley via getty imageshot on spending habits as different as poutine and apple pierichard goerg via getty images what mike duffy and a carjacking goat have in commongetty pot tourism could be a big hit heremct via getty images how to ignite the worst kind of social media buzzcp a section of economic observers in dar es salaam were a bit surprised to notice that the government still had a fight in the stomach on natural gas modality and financial supervision , a subject that has been commandeered by interest groups .
the government has been urged to establish an international market for processed gemstones and minerals in the country to speed up economic growth and improve the people ’ s livelihoods .
the government has embarked on harmonisation of laws and regulations governing the importation and distribution of substandard cosmetics and related products .
communication , science and technology minister prof makame mbalawa has directed the university of science and technology in mbeya ( must ) to introduce new courses in oil and gas fields so as to produce more tanzanian professionals .
the government through army ’ s wing suma jkt has procured 278 tractors to carter for the rising demand of the farming equipment by small and medium scale farmers in the country .
parliament told review of tax exemptions for foreign businesses in the pipeline her majesty queen máxima ( pictured ) of the netherlands and representatives of three food agencies of the united nations arrive in dar es salaam today to raise awareness of how access to financial services can improve the lives of smallholder farmers and the rural poor .
speaking in dar es salaam at the weekend , one of the organisers from the ministry of labour and employment bonaventura mwalongo said the seven-day exhibition has attracted over 1,000 exhibitors across the eac region .
ifc set to finance construction of energy-efficient building in dar the plan comes as one of the strategies that the isles is undertaking to uplift its economy in the next 50 years .
cbe , finnish varsity to train vendors on use of smartphones in marketing the government has called on wananchi to help the ministry of industry and trade to nab the traders who still import used undergarments through illegal routes .
the initiative is aimed at curbing the drop in number of tourists from the european region .
this was said at the weekend in dar es salaam by the secretary general of zanzibar association for youth education and empowerment ( zayee ) , fatma mabrouk khamis , at the opening of the global entrepreneurship week ( gew ) .
manyara regional commissioner eraston mbwilo said the move is meant to increase fish stock in the lakes , which of recent are overwhelmed by overfishing as well as unfriendly use of fishing gears .
lg electronics plans to promote its products during the peak holiday season in a bid to make its mark in the market .
home electricity use in us falling to 2001 levels mon dec 30 , 2013 4 : 18 pm est new gateley garden work set to begin in spring mon dec 30 , 2013 02 : 18 am est illinois man charged in mu student ’ s death mon dec 30 , 2013 6 : 18 pm est hospitals adjust to new medicare reimbursement criteria mon dec 30 , 2013 4 : 18 pm est the broadway hotel ’ s ’ wall of hope ’ is filling up mon dec 30 , 2013 8 : 18 pm est police , jc bars gearing up for new year ’ s eve sun dec 29 , 2013 8 : 18 pm est tax cuts on tap again for missouri legislators sun dec 29 , 2013 12 : 18 pm est holts summit officer saves man from jumping off overpass mon dec 30 , 2013 4 : 18 pm est the final stamp on his career mon dec 30 , 2013 04 : 18 am est missouri to screen all newborns for heart defects mon dec 30 , 2013 10 : 18 pm est residents line up to meet deadline for tax payments mon dec 30 , 2013 10 : 18 pm est the biggest financial new year ’ s resolution ?
saving money mon dec 30 , 2013 4 : 18 pm est year in review : who topped the lists in 2013 ?
mon dec 30 , 2013 4 : 18 pm est taxi companies gear up for new year ’ s eve rush mon dec 30 , 2013 8 : 18 pm est big spike in reported flu cases in kansas city mon dec 30 , 2013 6 : 18 pm est olathe toddler found safe mon dec 30 , 2013 8 : 18 pm est ’ dangerous ’ man sought in overland park package thefts mon dec 30 , 2013 6 : 18 pm est advocates hope to legalize pot in mo . mon dec 30 , 2013 10 : 18 pm est nye cab rides no longer free in kc mon dec 30 , 2013 2 : 18 pm est man accused in kc rape turns himself in mon dec 30 , 2013 06 : 18 am est top 10 stories on kshb.com in 2013 sun dec 29 , 2013 8 : 18 pm est the star ’ s online commenting policy thu dec 5 , 2013 8 : 18 pm est updated : sportswriter bill reiter ’ s eyewitness account at lax fri nov 1 , 2013 8 : 18 pm edt twitter , crocs are big market movers mon dec 30 , 2013 6 : 18 pm est cerner ’ seals the deal ’ on $ 4.3 billion office plan at bannister site mon dec 30 , 2013 6 : 18 pm est the quotes of 2013 : uneasiness about our economic future and government ’ s ability to adapt mon dec 30 , 2013 4 : 18 pm est two downtown apartment projects in the works mon dec 30 , 2013 2 : 18 pm est springfield ’ s first night to ring in its 24th new year mon dec 30 , 2013 8 : 18 pm est ups clears backlog mon dec 30 , 2013 2 : 18 pm est eve of eve fundraiser honors nonprofit community mon dec 30 , 2013 12 : 18 pm est property tax deadline is tomorrow mon dec 30 , 2013 10 : 18 am est what to ask before joining a gym mon dec 30 , 2013 8 : 18 pm est warming trend for a few days mon dec 30 , 2013 8 : 18 pm est fire officials say arson is responsible for a fire and home explosion in nixa mon dec 30 , 2013 8 : 18 pm est sinquefield gives big to eliminate teacher tenure mon dec 30 , 2013 6 : 18 pm est big sky brewing sues anheuser-busch over slogan in krasinski videos mon dec 30 , 2013 4 : 18 pm est man charged in hospital carjacking accused of car theft at local car wash mon dec 30 , 2013 8 : 18 pm est wa politicians ask machinists to approve boeing contract mon dec 30 , 2013 4 : 18 pm est $ 500,000 bond set for man accused of shooting mu student in illinois mon dec 30 , 2013 2 : 18 pm est pedestrian hit by car on new halls ferry road wed oct 23 , 2013 12 : 18 am edt conceal carry con-artists popping up in illinois tue oct 22 , 2013 6 : 18 pm edt man accused of killing niece returns to court for pretrial hearing tue oct 22 , 2013 2 : 18 pm edt body found in burned out car identified tue oct 22 , 2013 12 : 19 pm edt norovirus stomach flu on the rise in st. louis area mon dec 30 , 2013 8 : 18 pm est prescription laws may be helping cut number of meth lab busts mon dec 30 , 2013 8 : 18 pm est man shot in the back at skinker and delmar mon dec 30 , 2013 6 : 18 pm est man points gun at de soto officers , is taken down by police dog , police say mon dec 30 , 2013 4 : 18 pm est big problems overshadow big numbers for online shopping mon dec 30 , 2013 10 : 18 pm est ny monitor : apple hindering e-book antitrust work mon dec 30 , 2013 10 : 18 pm est hertz adopts ’ poison pill ’ measure mon dec 30 , 2013 6 : 18 pm est many other othered and marginalized groups also get “ put on ” for a day every october .
under no circumstances is sexualizing and insulting indian , mexican , arabic or asian cultures an acceptable thing to do .
not even for a day , not even if you “ mean it as a joke , ” not even if you have one < insert ethnic group here > friend who thinks it ’ s really cool / funny / acceptable .
stay tuned for a petition to get these costumes taken out of the & # 8220 ; bookstore & # 8221 ; & # 8230 ; how about roman and greek costumes ?
does that misrepresent their cultures ?
how about dressing as a gangster ?
is that a grave insult to the italian culture ?
instead of vilifying her , you should try reflecting on the content of her piece , and why you feel uncomfortable about it .
do bullasi 'm approaching the end of my discourse on the wines of do bullas .
it 's been both tasty and interesting and i hope i 've done a little & # 8230 ; 13 .
ach file maintenance and transfers for tithes and tuition • 5 or more years as a part-time or full-time accountant in a church or non-profit organization is preferred but not required . • a cpa designation and / or auditing experience is a significant plus .
aces by siam simpenderfer rocketed the wildcats to a quick 8-1 lead in the second and it was easy sailing from there to 25-15 .
the wildcats couldn ’ t get anything going .
staigle tried to play on defense but he couldn ’ t wrap up so the senior was sidelined for the rest of the game .
beach didn ’ t let themselves feel sorry for the team and scored another touchdown .
the buccaneers drove the ball down to the 12-yard line and faced a fourth-and-1 .
the buccaneers got the conversion and scored on a nunberg 11-yard run putting them up 14-0 .
the two-pointer after was no good .
privacy policyterms of useabout uscontact usemploymentlinksventure marketing © 2013 bhg , inc . all rights reserved .
the end of the neo-liberal age , or the return to the left | cadran politic « previousdatoriile suverane & # 8211 ; un risc grav pentru sistemul bancar © 2012 cadran politic · rss · designed by theme junkie · powered by wordpress bhg news - center republican news the easiest way to get your classifieds in the post is to e-mail the text to mojito , male , shelter since 07.01.2011 .
alsatian mix , dob 15.01.2010 - 54 cm .
why was he called " mojito " ?
for no special reason , apart from the fact that also our dog " mojito " can have an exhilarating effect .
mojito makes us smile each time we see him .
he is naughty at times but he knows all the commands .
he sits and lies down when asked to do so and he walks well on the lead .
if you like alsatians and if you are looking for a good exponent of his breed that you can train , then you should choose mojito .
he is very eager to please you and he will be a perfect dog if properly treated .
tel .
618 754 635 want to drive your lhd car to the uk & sell it when you get there ?
call 658 670 777 cbn - friendship , leisure , greetings new year reflections : the character of the task before us | david coates the start of a new year is always a good moment for reflection on the nature of our present condition .
it is an even better moment for the adoption of resolutions designed to improve that condition .
so perhaps we should try both .
in the listing for his 1901 victorian house , greg leeson is asking for $ 144,000 , but he adds that the house is " slightly haunted , " nbc reports .
the housing market is one of the pillars of the u.s. economy and there may be no better indication of how the market is doing than housing starts .
you may have heard this term in the aftermath of the real estate bubble .
so what is an underwater mortgage ?
housing may be stable , but not in ‘ full-blown recovery ’ : ritholtz newseconomyfinancehealth carereal estateretailwealthautosearningsenergymediapoliticscommentaryspecial reportsasiaeuropemarketspre-marketsu.s.asiaeuropestockscommoditiescurrenciesbondsfundsetfsinvestingfinancial advisorspersonal financecnbc explainsportfoliowatchliststock screenerfund screenertechmobilesocial mediaenterprisegamingcybersecuritysmall businessfranchisingfinancingmanagementvideolatest videodigital workshopu.s. videoasia videoeurope videoceo interviewsanalyst interviewsfull episodesclosed captioningshowswatch livecnbc u.s.cnbc asia-pacificcnbc europecnbc worldfull episodescnbcabout cnbcsite mapvideo reprintsadvertisecareershelpcontactprivacy policyterms of serviceindependent programming reportlatest news releasesrsscertain market data provided by thomson reutersdata also provided bydata is a real-time snapshot * data is delayed at least 15 minutesglobal business and financial news , stock quotes , and market data and analysis © 2014 cnbc llc . all rights reserved.a division of nbcuniversalmarket data center - barrons.com stock up on fresh , local produce at winslow farmers ’ market an " expedition " can be any journey undertaken by an individual or organized group of people with a definite unique objective , be it for the purpose of discovery , science , or fundraising. in the country .
arusha is another important market and is world + 15 others l ’ afd soutient 15 nouveaux projets d ’ organisations françaises de la société civile pour un montant de 8,9 millions d ’ euros le comité spécialisé du conseil d ’ administration de l ’ afd pour l ’ appui aux initiatives des ong s ’ est réuni le 17 décembre 2013 .
il a approuvé l ’ attribution de 15 subventions .
aides - accès à la prévention et aux traitements du vih / sida en afrique et dans les caraïbes no wonder why microsoft has started trashing google 's chromebooksbusiness insider - by steve kovachgoogle expands chromebook school programme in indiaeconomic timessee all 210 sourcesrelated chromebooks he noted that funding for investment in the development and maintenance of the railway infrastructure had been the least prioritised area in the past . · assistance from azerbaijan makes up the bulk of the region ’ s outgoing aid in 2012 she was last seen on sept .
18 in the downtown area .
information was received since that time that she may be in the espanola or west-nippissing area.anyone with information on her whereabouts is asked to call police or crime stoppers at 222-tips ( 8477 ) , online at www.sudburycrimestoppers.com or by texting tipsud and the information to crimes ( 274637 ) .
an injured man recuperates in a hospital after the explosion .
an injured girl recuperates in a hospital after the explosion .
egyptians carry the body of a police officer who was killed in the attack earlier in the day during the funeral service in mansoura .
the influential chairman of oaktree capital makes the case for his " middling stance " on asset values .
registered users can request assistance from our professional editors.the silsbee bee - classifieds on the bee can be who god created me to be , and i need to ask for help in places that i am not rss terms of servicesudbury boy getting his five minutes of fame la société agricole de raffinage industrielle du sucre ( saris ) a enregistré une production record de 71.113 tonnes de sucre à l 'issue de la campagne sucrière 2013 contre 46.260 tonnes en 2012 , annonce un communiqué de cette entreprise publié jeudi à & # 8230 ; paul scally ’ s decision to sack martin allen was a controversial one but is it looking like a wise one ?
youngster bradley dack will get more goals and there is no doubting that .
set pieces are vital at this level and it was great to see us score one against stevenage .
we faced two different experiences in the last week and the trip to sheffield united , playing in front of 16,000 fans , is why we worked so hard to get the informer : sit up and take notice of panthers legend the first leg of the bags track championship was held last thursday at romford and crayford did not fare well .
it ’ s great to see danny kedwell reaping the rewards of his hard work . * supertax to be capped at 5 pct of a company 's turnover the socialist government has since reworked the tax to levy it on companies instead , raising the ire of entrepreneurs .
nancy lanza ’ s final few days of relief sat dec 28 , 2013 12 : 09 am est state police report on newtown to be released friday fri dec 27 , 2013 12 : 09 am est susan granger ’ s review of ’ anchorman 2 : the legend continues ’ sat dec 28 , 2013 10 : 09 pm est woman charged with shoplifting bracelets at kohl ’ s mon dec 30 , 2013 08 : 09 am est it ’ s a jungle out there : new kids gym opens in fairfield sun dec 29 , 2013 10 : 09 am est report : fraudulent charges racked up on kohl ’ s credit card sat dec 28 , 2013 10 : 09 am est schools to eliminate drama , phys ed coordinators tue jan 8 , 2013 10 : 09 pm est flu widespread in neighboring states mon dec 30 , 2013 6 : 09 pm est woman hit by train ; body found in saugatuck river mon dec 30 , 2013 10 : 09 pm est man arrested for robbing shelton bank mon dec 30 , 2013 10 : 09 pm est federal bonus for medicaid sign-ups mon dec 30 , 2013 8 : 09 pm est lawmakers want gun registration extended mon dec 30 , 2013 8 : 09 pm est the dart : delivering a dose of humor sun dec 29 , 2013 10 : 09 pm est cops : woman whose body was found in saugatuck river was hit by train mon dec 30 , 2013 8 : 09 pm est levitt officials give assurances new pavilion is on time , within budget sun dec 29 , 2013 10 : 09 am est newseconomyfinancehealth carereal estateretailwealthautosearningsenergymediapoliticscommentaryspecial reportsasiaeuropemarketspre-marketsu.s.asiaeuropestockscommoditiescurrenciesbondsfundsetfsinvestingfinancial advisorspersonal financecnbc explainsportfoliowatchliststock screenerfund screenertechmobilesocial mediaenterprisegamingcybersecuritysmall businessfranchisingfinancingmanagementvideolatest videodigital workshopu.s. videoasia videoeurope videoceo interviewsanalyst interviewsfull episodesclosed captioningshowswatch livecnbc u.s.cnbc asia-pacificcnbc europecnbc worldfull episodescnbcabout cnbcsite mapvideo reprintsadvertisecareershelpcontactprivacy policyterms of serviceindependent programming reportlatest news releasesrsscertain market data provided by thomson reutersdata also provided bydata is a real-time snapshot * data is delayed at least 15 minutesglobal business and financial news , stock quotes , and market data and analysis © 2014 cnbc llc . all rights reserved.a division of nbcuniversal irin | africa | west africa | cameroon “ i thought it was my milk affecting him , or that he was teething , ” said the 17-year-old mother at the referral hospital in maroua , the capital of cameroon ’ s far north region , where her son was being treated for severe acute malnutrition and other complications .
" it has never yet been discovered how to make a man unknow his knowledge , or unthink his thoughts . "
netflix reportedly plans streaming purge for january 1cnet22 hours agowritten bysteven musilnetflix reportedly plans streaming purge for january 1 .
" war games " and the original " dark shadows " are among the dozens of movies and tv shows set to expire , according to a list posted to reddit.see realtime coveragesee all 3 sourcesrelated : netflix viewpoint or ideology and you can choose from a wide variety of personalized news : no one can read all the news that ’ s published the striking pricedecember 24how to invest in a low-volatility market any good .
lots of fenced paved area in the back and easy access .
its sat empty long enough to realize the price on it is way too high .
maybe applying for a grant or buy gold now .
the usa cannot help all the institutions & sub prime has hit other countries .
the financial collapse is being sorted out as now gm & ford are finding out gold , silver , as well as savings in the bank are the way to go but be ready to pull your money out and invest in gold .
wait until everything is about to collapse .
[ read george soros crises report ] [ thailand in crises ] [ depression looms 2011 ] [ depression safeguards ] [ investment property guide ] [ borrowing money ] [ using thai company to hold property ] [ best option for foreigners buying ] [ more thailand finance news ] [ pension funds ] [ depression looms 2011 ] [ hedge funds 2008 ] [ investing fund guidelines ] why you [ do not invest in finance companies ] [ buy gold not shares in finance companies ] [ thai property speculation & sub prime crises ] of privacy and our company will act accordingly .
see faqsarmed robber sought in florence legislature should take out its swallow anger on payday lenders faroese premie meets damanaki on mackerel - but sanctions still on agenda les populations de diahondi cultivent la cohésion sociale pour une cohabitation harmonieuse côte d & # 039 ; ivoire les populations de diahondi cultivent la cohésion sociale pour une cohabitation harmonieuse l ’ opération des nations unies ( onuci ) et l ’ ong bonne action , partenaire de la mission dans ses activités de sensibilisation , ont organisé jeudi 26 décembre 2013 , une activité de renforcement de la cohésion sociale avec les populations de diahondi , localité située à 571 km au nord-ouest d ’ abidjan .
la caravane d ’ information et de sensibilisation de l ’ opération des nations unies en côte d ’ ivoire ( onuci ) dénommée onuci tour , qui sillonne villages et hameaux pour échanger avec les populations a fait jeudi 26 décembre 2013 , une halte à gbegbekro , petite localité situé à 07 km au nord de taï dans l ’ extrême ouest de côte d ’ ivoire .
plusieurs thématiques concourant à la stabilité sociale aux nombres desquels les violences basées sur le genre et la promotion des droits des enfants ont été abordées au cours de cette rencontre d ’ échanges .
côte d & # 039 ; ivoire + 1 other un ancien apatride désormais ivorien aide d & # 039 ; autres apatrides à obtenir la nationalité yamoussoukro , côte d 'ivoire , 23 décembre ( hcr ) – pratiquement toute sa vie , l 'élu ivoirien béré tassoumane a eu des problèmes à prouver son existence .
dans sa côte d 'ivoire natale , son nom ne figurait pas sur les registres civils et il ne pouvait obtenir aucun document d 'identité .
de ce fait , il n 'a pas pu s 'inscrire à l 'école , ni acheter des terres , ni même postuler pour un emploi .
pendant près de 30 ans , il a vécu sans bénéficier de la protection d 'un pays , comme un fantôme .
yamoussoukro , côte d 'ivoire ( unhcr ) – for most of his life , elected official bere tassoumane had trouble proving his existence .
in his native côte d 'ivoire , his name did not figure on civil registries , and he could not get any type of identity card .
as a result , he could not enroll in school , purchase land or even apply for a job .
for nearly 30 years , he was a man without the protection of any country .
he was a living ghost .
côte d & # 039 ; ivoire local militias hold sway in cote d ’ ivoire ’ s lawless duékoué “ with their clothes too wide for their skinny bodies , they look a bit comical , ” doh says .
but she is not laughing .
each man holds an old rifle in his hands .
côte d & # 039 ; ivoire + 3 others les ivoiriens réfugiés au ghana et au togo craignent des représailles abidjan , 22 décembre 2013 ( irin ) - la peur des représailles empêche les milliers d 'ivoiriens qui ont trouvé refuge au ghana et au togo après les violences survenues au lendemain des élections présidentielles de 2010-2011 de rentrer en côte d 'ivoire .
sur les 12 500 ivoiriens qui se sont enfuis au ghana et au togo , seuls 710 sont rentrés chez eux , selon le service d 'aide aux réfugiés et aux apatrides ( saara ) de la côte d 'ivoire .
côte d & # 039 ; ivoire + 2 others retour d ’ exilés pro-gbagbo en échange de garanties du gouvernement la levée des mandats d ’ arrêt délivrés par la justice nationale , un retour en toute sécurité et la restitution des biens des exilés , en particulier de leurs propriétés occupées : telles sont les garanties fournies à la délégation du front populaire ivoirien ( fpi , opposition ) à l ’ issue de colloques tenus avec le ministre de l ’ intérieur , hamed bakayoko .
bénin burkina faso cap vert côte d ’ ivoire gambie guinée guinée bissau mali mauritanie niger sénégal tchad togo 1ère édition de la foire aux savoirs au sahel et en afrique de l ’ ouest lancement des programmes de coopération technique entre le cilss , l ’ igad et la fao .
29ème réunion annuelle du réseau de prévention des crises alimentaires au sahel et en afrique de l ’ ouest ( rpca ) - les indicateurs et outils méthodologiques de mesure de la résilience passés à la loupe côte d & # 039 ; ivoire les populations de bacon et de blody apprennent à gérer la rumeur et à vivre ensemble l ’ opération des nations unies en côte d ’ ivoire ( onuci ) a organisé , le mercredi 18 décembre 2013 , une journée de sensibilisation des populations de bacon et de blody respectivement dans les départements d ’ adzopé et de toulepleu .
ces rencontres qui avaient pour objectif d ’ aider les populations à mieux gérer les rumeurs et à renforcer la cohésion sociale , se sont déroulées en présence de la notabilité , des responsables des femmes , des jeunes et des chefs de communauté .
côte d & # 039 ; ivoire reforme du secteur de la sécurité : le conseil national de la sécurité et l ’ onuci sensibilisent les préfets sur leur rôle a l ’ initiative conjointe du secrétariat du conseil national de la sécurité ( cns ) et de la division réforme du secteur de la sécurité ( rss ) de l ’ opération des nations unies en côte d ’ ivoire ( onuci ) , plus d ’ une soixantaine de préfets se sont retrouvés , le mercredi 18 décembre 2013 , à l ’ hôtel président de yamoussoukro , pour un séminaire de formation autour du thème « la dimension locale de la réforme du secteur de la sécurité » .
côte d & # 039 ; ivoire les officiers de police judiciaire de la brigade de gendarmerie de taï réexaminent leurs connaissances pour se familiariser avec les notions des droits de l ’ homme et des enquêtes de police judiciaire , une dizaine d ’ officiers de police judiciaire de la gendarmerie de taï viennent de prendre part à une séance de formation initiée par le bureau des droits de l ’ homme de l ’ onuci basé dans cette localité située à environ 700 km d ’ abidjan .
world + 12 others rapport du secrétaire général sur les activités du bureau des nations unies pour l ’ afrique de l ’ ouest ( s / 2013 / 732 ) dans une lettre datée du 20 décembre 2010 ( s / 2010 / 661 ) , la présidente du conseil de sécurité a approuvé la prorogation du mandat du bureau des nations unies pour l ’ afrique de l ’ ouest ( unowa ) jusqu ’ au 31 décembre 2013 et m ’ a prié de rendre compte au conseil , tous les six mois , de l ’ exécution du mandat révisé du bureau .
côte d & # 039 ; ivoire les agents de santé communautaires en côte d & # 039 ; ivoire jouent un rôle essentiel dans la prévention des nouvelles infections au vih chez les enfants voici atanase koukou kouakou , un agent de santé communautaire qui offre un soutien crucial aux femmes enceintes vivant avec le vih dans son village rural de labo , côte d 'ivoire . télécharger cette vidéo côte d & # 039 ; ivoire la côte d ’ ivoire va étendre le traitement contre le vih genève – la côte d ’ ivoire déploie des efforts de renforcement des services de lutte contre le vih de manière à ce que , d ’ ici 2016 , presque toutes les femmes séropositives puissent bénéficier d ’ un traitement pour prévenir la transmission du virus à leurs enfants à naître .
ces initiatives sont soutenues par deux subventions signées cette semaine avec le fonds mondial pour un total de 77 millions d ’ euros .
mali + 10 others sécurité alimentaire et implications humanitaires en afrique de l ’ ouest et au sahel - novembre / décembre 2013 selon les résultats du cadre harmonisé , 13 millions de personnes sont en insécurité alimentaire ( burkina faso , gambie , niger , sénégal , mauritanie , côte d ’ ivoire et tchad ) et ce malgré des en plus , 4,5 millions d ’ enfants de moins de cinq ans sont touchés par la malnutrition aiguë en des déficits fourragers localisés risquent d ’ entraîner une période de soudure pastorale précoce .
honduras police say heiress and spa owner nedenia post dye slain on island of roatan businesses kick off the new year mon dec 30 , 2013 4 : 19 pm est another dry week mon dec 30 , 2013 10 : 19 am est elkos war on drugs rages on mon dec 30 , 2013 10 : 19 am est horsford hears ely residents concerns fri dec 27 , 2013 10 : 19 am est ice rink postponed due to warm weather fri dec 27 , 2013 10 : 19 am est white pine county sheriffs blotter fri dec 20 , 2013 12 : 19 pm est ice skating rink coming to broadbent park fri dec 20 , 2013 10 : 19 am est las vegas strip prepares for new year ’ s eve bash mon dec 30 , 2013 8 : 19 pm est fireworks experts preparing to dazzle vegas for new year ’ s mon dec 30 , 2013 10 : 19 pm est las vegas visitor count up in november mon dec 30 , 2013 8 : 19 pm est steel up , framing going in at shops at summerlin mon dec 30 , 2013 6 : 19 pm est latest officiating gaffes are sore spot for the nfl mon dec 30 , 2013 10 : 19 pm est a tale of two ’ new ’ venues : axis at planet hollywood and the chelsea at cosmo mon dec 30 , 2013 8 : 19 pm est home electricity use in us falling to 2001 levels mon dec 30 , 2013 4 : 19 pm est reno memo : a look at what the new year has in store for local government mon dec 30 , 2013 8 : 19 pm est ’ crunch time ’ in nevada sage grouse debate mon dec 30 , 2013 06 : 19 am est new epipen program in local schools mon dec 30 , 2013 10 : 19 pm est flu activity still rising in washoe county mon dec 30 , 2013 10 : 19 pm est no injuries in fallon stand-off mon dec 30 , 2013 10 : 19 pm est ice loss from the greenland and antarctic ice sheets is rising to the top as the main contributor to higher sea level .
johannesburg — law enforcement agencies say policing in major south african cities has been beefed up as revelers prepare to usher in the new year. can now offer you services at very reasonable rates .
please ask us any questions bishop george leo thomas gathered with the parishes of the missoula deanery for a picnic in the park sunday , october 6 , at caras park in missoula .
bishop thomas , in his homily to and the new evangelization .
the prayer service was followed by a barbecue provided by the knight of columbus .
photos : above , bishop thomas and the servers of the prayer euro rises against dollar and yen but seen vulnerablereuterseuro set to be 2013 's top-performing major currencyeconomic timessee all 166 sourcesrelated japanese yen euro poised to end the year on a highbenzingaeuro zone set for volatile 2014 as it tackles banksoman daily observersee all 132 sourcesrelated european central bank or red boxes and in cafeterias throughout the campus every monday .
the interrobang is always looking for photographers , writers a majority ( 73 % ) defined binge-watching as watching two to six episodes of the same tv show in one sitting .
3d printing3d systems4k tvaccessoriesaceractivisionadobe systemsadvertisingamazonamazon.comamcamdandroidantitrustaolapplearmasusat & tbarack obamabarnes & noblebest buyblackberryboxeebroadcomcbscelebritiesceschinachina mobilechipschromebookcirrus logiccisco systemscloudcoinstarcomcastconsumer electronicscorningdelldirectvdiscovery communicationsdish networkebaye-bookselectronic artsfacebookfrancefriday funniesgamestopgeneral electricgooglegoogle glassgrouponhewlett-packardht chtchuluibmintelinteractivecorpipadiphoneipodiposirobotjeff bezoskickstarterkindlekinglenovolglg displaylinkedinmade in usamade in usamarissa mayermicrosoftmoviesnetflixnews corp.nikenintendonokianxp semiconductorsoracleouterwallpanasonicpandorapcspinterestqualcommredboxretailrobotsrokuroviosamsungsharpsmartphonessmartwatchessocial mediasocial networkingsonysprintsquarestaplessteve ballmerstratasysstreaming videosurfacesurveysynapticstabletstake-two interactive softwaretargettesla motorstim cooktime warnertime warner cablet-mobiletoshibatumblrtwitterultra hdtvverizonviacomvideo gameswal-martwalt disneywearable computerswindowsyahooyoutubezillowzynga mchomvu was speaking after receiving the overall winner ’ s trophy from the tra acting commissioner general rished bade in dar es salaam recently .
it was supposed to be the “ bridge ” between sudan and south sudan , a symbol of how two once-warring neighbours can move forward into a new era of peace , a model for amicable problem-solving .
instead , the abyei area remains mired in a worsening crisis which stands in the way of full rapprochement between khartoum and juba .
abbas : all options are available , but there are no plans for third intifada “ we do not want to raise our expectations at this stage , but we also do not want to underestimate the importance of the meeting , which gathered the palestinians and the israelis face to face , ” jordanian foreign minister nasser judeh said at a news conference to sum up the talks in amman .
erekat and molcho met first this week with the quartet representatives and later sat down by themselves , judeh said .
the quartet is made up of the eu , the u.s , the united nations and russia .
“ abbas will not go for negotiations with israel unless it freezes the building in the settlements , ” salhi said .
safe environment > information and referralwhen you dial 2-1-1 , or 1-800-543-7709 , you will speak to a local information and referral specialist , who can help you to : etransform africa : the transformational use of information and communication technologies in africa le golfe de guinée : la nouvelle zone à haut risque central african republic + 8 others rapport du secrétaire général sur les activités du bureau régional des nations unies pour l ’ afrique centrale et sur les zones où sévit l ’ armée de résistance du seigneur ( s / 2013 / 671 ) want to use this map in a report or on your website ?
please see the map permission page first .
congo + 3 others des experts du congo , cameroun et gabon procèdent à l ’ évaluation in vitro des antipaludiques des experts du congo-brazzaville , du cameroun et du gabon participent , du 9 au 10 septembre à brazzaville , à un atelier d ’ évaluation in vitro des antipaludiques visant à harmoniser les techniques et à partager des données .
l ’ atelier est organisé par la fondation congolaise pour la recherche médicale ( fcrm ) , sous le thème : « culture in vitro de plasmodium falciparum et tests de chimio sensibilité » .
le cerf alloue plus de 19,8 millions de dollars pour des programmes d ’ urgence au second trimestre le fonds central d ’ intervention d ’ urgence des nations unies ( cerf ) a alloué au cours des trois derniers mois un total de 19,8 millions de dollars au congo , au mali , à la république centrafricaine ( rca ) , au sénégal et au tchad .
cette dotation porte à 47,9 millions de dollars le montant total alloué en 2013 à l ’ afrique de l ’ ouest et du centre .
democratic republic of the congo + 7 others rapport du secrétaire général sur les activités du bureau régional des nations unies pour l ’ afrique centrale et les régions touchées par l ’ armée de résistance du seigneur ( s / 2013 / 297 ) world + 10 others la bad lance de nouvelles autoroutes de l ’ information congo + 12 others evaluation de l ’ action de déblaiement et de dépollution des quartiers affectés par l ’ explosion du dépôt de munitions de mpila à brazzaville l ’ évaluation a été confié au centre international de déminage humanitaire de genève ( cidhg ) agissant en partenariat avec le programme universitaire indépendant small arms survey .
le mandat comprenait : l 'évaluation de l 'efficacité des activités de dépollution de la zone de mpila à brazzaville ; l 'évaluation des processus de coordination entre les autorités nationales , l 'équipe de l ’ action contre les mines des nations unies ( unmat ) , les partenaires d 'exécution , les bailleurs de fonds et les autres parties prenantes ; in response to recent concerns , tcu minister brad duguid said , “ we [ the province ] will not be micromanaging but we do have a stewardship role . ”
he said the province would “ use funding mechanisms to drive change in the system . ”
duguid also emphasized the importance of “ building a culture of innovation and entrepreneurialism . ”
“ some of our institutions are doing a tremendous job [ of doing that ] .
we need to encourage that because it ’ s going to benefit graduates in any field . ”
banks allowed to lend up to rs 1 lakh against gold jewelleryfinancial expressmobile banking disappoints rbimanoramaonlinein-depth : rbi breather for banks offering gold loans but with ridersbusiness standardsee all 31 sourcesrelated bank rbi grants special to ccil as counterpartyeconomic timesccil gets qccp statuslivemint - by anup roysee all 9 sourcesrelated india rbi eases provisioning norms for loans for low income housingbusiness standardnbfcs not to make provision for guaranteed portion of loan : rbieconomic timessee all 7 sourcesrelated bank hamad condemns hatred , violence and discrimination na the guardian reporter i am glad the civic center is being used . i have a clear memory of freshman bball tryouts where i stole the ball , dribbled the length of the court , and blew the layup . it 's no wonder i didn 't make the team . we had freshman football practice in the field to the right of it .
we had good teachers . they put up with our nonsense and somehow managed to put a certain amount of information in our heads .
mr. morgan , especially , had a impact on my learning . many of the things he tought us back then , i still use everyday in the running of my business .
by the way , you don 't happen to have a brother names donny , do you ?
i mentioned him in an earlier post . i remember him as an awesome baseball player ( pitcher ) . he had a bazooka for an arm . we played on a combined ( city & base ) allstar team , i believe , in ' 65 . i think he was a year or two older than me , so he would have graduated in ' 67 or ' 68 . just curious .
anyway , i was 13-15 when we lived there and that age and time has a special place in my memory .
so who are you ?
you brave soul !
i 'm sure don knows who you are , but i 'll forget to ask him !
i was an airman at glasgow afb . it was in december of 1966 . i had gone into town on a friday evening . i had been scheduled to take the sat test the next day at the high school . i stayed in a local motel or hotel , and bright and early the next morning , i was up and ready .
i got out of the air force the following june , left glasgow afb , and went to the university of maine . i got my degree , became an english teacher in portland , maine , and i went on to get my master 's . i retired in 1998 , and my wife and i moved to california .
as for school . it was an experience of getting my butt kicked most of the time . it seems as though i fought for three years and never won a battle . the pe teacher ( don 't remember his name ) used to add to the humiliation by giving me swats with the wooden paddle that i would have to go get in the vp office and then get swatted in front of the entire class . that sucked !
i 'm 59 and i still remember those vivid moments !
i was on the wrestling team in the 9th grade but never won . i wasn 't good enough for the football team so i was one of the team managers. don 't know if you read the earlier posts but i , too , lived in one of the trailer parks between the base and galsgow and bused into town---do you remember any othe the ' walker 's ' ? ? ? ?
i seem to recall someone by the name of francis ( ? ? ? ? )
i think that was a friend of my older brothers and sister who had a pet skunk . i think i almost knocked him out one time with a soup ladel .
was that you ? ? ?
did you ever find a picture of the old high school ?
its a reasonably sharp print and shows the old building as it was back in the 50 's and 60 's .
reg clemons.reg clemons posted : 2009-09-09 12 : 20 : 04 im am tickled too learn of your past and how things were and how things are now keep up the typing very interesting newspaper software | connect email marketing | express website buildera fi musulman .
islam , pace şi democratie & # 8211 ; alteţa sa regală prinţul el hassan bin talal | cadran politic home vitrina cu cărți a fi musulman .
islam , pace şi democratie & # 8211 ; alteţa sa regală prinţul el hassan bin talal nu portretul iordanianului sau al arabului este ales de autor ca titlu al lucrării sale .
este un portret mai larg care le cuprinde pe precedentele : este acela al mahomedanului .
acesta trebuie cunoscut în forma lui autentică , demnă şi paşnică , într-un moment în care religiile sunt deturnate de propriii aderenţi şi considerate ostile sau ameninţătoare în exterior .
cartea răspunde cu o claritate deplină celor două pericole . & # 8221 ; & # 8220 ; alteţa sa regală prinţul el hassan bin talal este o personalitate prezentă în toate areopagurile politice , filosofice sau teologice unde se discută soarta globală a lumii . [ … ] nu portretul iordanianului sau al arabului este ales de autor ca titlu al lucrării sale .
este un portret mai larg care le cuprinde pe precedentele : este acela al mahomedanului .
acesta trebuie cunoscut în forma lui autentică , demnă şi paşnică , într-un moment în care religiile sunt deturnate de propriii aderenţi şi considerate ostile sau ameninţătoare în exterior .
cartea răspunde cu o claritate deplină celor două pericole . & # 8221 ; next revoluția din decembrie  89 : pacatul originar , sacrificiul fondator & # 8211 ; emil constantinescu © 2010 cadran politic · rss · designed by theme junkie · powered by wordpressadvertising in the beacon us to post the geg . think of the print shop for all of your printing there will be a 1 week delay in posting the gegs . they will be mailed to us from now on so once we get them we will get them posted .
( meeting the needs of job seekers and employers in the kansas & ldquo ; we need to find permanent happiness by forgiving and forgetting the past , especially the incidents that in one way or another may jeopardise our peace .
to forgive and to forget the past will help us to live the holy words of god , & rdquo ; he said .
he said the public as well as individuals have the onus to guard the prevailing peace and use christmas day to forgive one another by exchanging gifts .
for his part , rev audax who is also a servant at st joseph cathedral said the occurrence of such events proves that there are people who do not accept god and are not for peace and love .
rcc opening randleman center mon dec 30 , 2013 12 : 22 pm est 2013 : the year of the grocery store boom in asheville mon dec 30 , 2013 6 : 22 pm est $ 1000 reward for tip to find olive mon dec 30 , 2013 10 : 22 pm est fundraiser in memory of crash victim mon dec 30 , 2013 6 : 22 pm est tax exemptions to expire mon dec 30 , 2013 6 : 22 pm est john edwards is starting a new raleigh law firm tue nov 19 , 2013 08 : 22 am est first night in new location , cmpd crackdown on dwis mon dec 30 , 2013 10 : 22 pm est first night in new location mon dec 30 , 2013 8 : 22 pm est wbtv keeping you healthy in 2014 mon dec 30 , 2013 8 : 22 pm est rivera : we ’ re not where we need to be mon dec 30 , 2013 8 : 22 pm est at kwanzaa , sounds of drums and a trumpet mon dec 30 , 2013 10 : 22 pm est nc will not be drone test site mon dec 30 , 2013 10 : 22 pm est bradford thomas guyton mon dec 30 , 2013 6 : 22 pm est sheriff promotes two mon dec 30 , 2013 12 : 22 pm est bladenboro election takes top spot mon dec 30 , 2013 02 : 22 am est 2nd suspect sought in robbery at fayetteville bar tue dec 17 , 2013 08 : 22 am est disabled maxton man loses home to fire tue dec 17 , 2013 08 : 22 am est wmh recognized by accreditation panel sun dec 29 , 2013 02 : 22 am est city plans on public input on greenways sun dec 29 , 2013 02 : 22 am est police agencies step up patrols for new year ’ s eve mon dec 30 , 2013 8 : 22 pm est population boom in the carolinas mon dec 30 , 2013 6 : 22 pm est police investigating robbery in greensboro mon dec 30 , 2013 10 : 22 pm est mallard creek lands 3 on ap all-state team for nc mon dec 30 , 2013 10 : 22 pm est wnc sloshes to record year in rainfall , 75 inches mon dec 30 , 2013 8 : 22 pm est first day hikes offer natural way to kick off 2014 mon dec 30 , 2013 6 : 22 pm est new mobile site fri aug 9 , 2013 4 : 22 pm edt on again : cherry point air show set for may 16-18 mon dec 30 , 2013 6 : 22 pm est variety of area activities set to ring in 2014 mon dec 30 , 2013 02 : 22 am est sadlack ’ s set to sing ’ auld lang syne ’ mon dec 30 , 2013 10 : 22 pm est partial evacuation of nd town near oil derailment mon dec 30 , 2013 8 : 22 pm est duke restricts visitors as nc flu deaths reach 8 mon dec 30 , 2013 4 : 22 pm est duke restricts patient visits to stop spread of flu mon dec 30 , 2013 8 : 22 pm est thousands expected for raleigh ’ s new years eve fireworks and events mon dec 30 , 2013 10 : 22 pm est gas leak on hillsborough street fixed mon dec 30 , 2013 10 : 22 pm est moving in a better , healthier direction sun dec 29 , 2013 06 : 22 am est publishers note : nc sales tax sun dec 29 , 2013 06 : 22 am est natural gas rates set to rise sun dec 29 , 2013 10 : 22 pm est three charged in kannapolis break-in mon dec 30 , 2013 2 : 22 pm est newsmaker of the year : who is erica parsons ?
sun dec 29 , 2013 02 : 22 am est hospital restricting visitation due to flu mon dec 30 , 2013 6 : 22 pm est police : man raped dancer in back of car mon dec 30 , 2013 6 : 22 pm est how the star gave back to the community in 2013 mon dec 30 , 2013 6 : 22 pm est man dies in car crash mon dec 30 , 2013 10 : 22 pm est causey announces his run for coble ’ s congressional seat mon dec 30 , 2013 10 : 22 pm est rais wa zanzibar dr ali shein aongoza mahafali ya 9 ya chuo kikuu cha suza & # 8220 ; i am young , you are rich , we are like americans & # 8221 ; « previousromânia – china : de la o agendă de bune intenţii la rezultate concrete ? © 2013 cadran politic · rss · designed by theme junkie · powered by wordpress tuesday dec 31 , 2013 2 dar businessmen charged with forgery , impersonation na karama kenyunko on the fourth and fifth counts , it was further alleged , on december 6 and 12 , this year at the same office the accused presented himself to marsha msuya and sandip patel of total tanzania ltd as abdul kader burdin , the director of goe afrique consultants l td .
the accused pleaded not guilty and was remanded in custody for failing to meet bail conditions. have jitters , but no doubts .
i ’ m excited and i want important for all to ask , “ who is not at the conseils de santé aux voyageurs - le chikungunya à saint-martin / sint maarten , en martinique et en guadeloupe des cas confirmés de chikungunya ont été signalé sur les îles antillaises de saint martin / sint maarten , martinique et guadeloupe .
cest la première fois que lon détecte une transmission locale de chikungunya dans la région des amériques .
des cas importés ont seulement été signalés précédemment dans la région des amériques . ( 12 / 20 / 2013 10 : 24 : 10 am ) it ’ s certainly not a & ldquo ; done deal , & rdquo ; but the possibility of a new motel in garrison appears to be very good .
world + 2 others après la guinée équatoriale , l ’ angola contribue à son tour au fonds de solidarité pour la sécurité alimentaire en afrique 10 millions de dollars pour financer les actions de sécurité alimentaire dans la région 20 juin 2013 , rome - l 'angola vient d 'annoncer son intention de verser 10 millions de dollars au fonds de solidarité pour la sécurité alimentaire en afrique , que gère la fao , afin de promouvoir la sécurité alimentaire en afrique .
le ministère angolais de l 'agriculture et du développement m. afonso pedro canga a annoncé ce don lors du lancement officiel du fonds en marge de la 38e conférence de la fao , l 'organe directeur souverain de l 'organisation .
cameroon + 5 others la délégation régionale du cicr à yaoundé établie à yaoundé ( cameroun ) depuis 1992 , la délégation régionale du cicr pour l ’ afrique centrale soutient la mise en œuvre du droit international humanitaire en angola , au cameroun , au gabon , en guinée équatoriale , en république du congo et à sao tomé-et-principe .
elle apporte également protection et assistance aux personnes déplacées par la violence , réalise des activités de rétablissement des liens familiaux , visite des détenus et soutient le développement des sociétés nationales de la croix-rouge de la région .
world + 1 other le fonds fiduciaire africain pour la sécurité alimentaire devient réalité la guinée équatoriale est le premier pays à contribuer , à hauteur de 30 millions de dollars , à cette initiative de l ’ afrique à l ’ afrique pour lutter contre la faim 22 février 2013 , malabo / rome - la guinée équatoriale a fait don aujourd 'hui de 30 millions de dollars à un nouveau fonds de solidarité qui vise à mobiliser les ressources financières de l 'afrique pour renforcer la sécurité alimentaire de la région .
the city of garrison has ok ’ d garrison area improvement association ( gaia ) officials to be the representative for any possible development of the old city landfill property .
finding a new alderman to fill the seat vacated by alderman bill iglehart for the garrison city council is a bit difficult. last one tagged , and was to be “ it ” for life. didn ’ t do it for show , and it was such a surprise all 10 men to gather for the first time in eight raftis said .
“ but he didn ’ t see me .
so i followed nkandla builder thandeka nene says a r7-billion fraud accusation against her in the seychelles is a " political manoeuvre " - despite a guilty verdict . ( 12 / 28 / 2013 5 : 57 : 22 am ) russia suicide bombing : is doku umarov the kremlin 's worst nightmare ?
online abonelike-gazetehoşgeldi̇n 201401 ocak 2014 çarşambaanasayfaekonomifinansdış haberlerpolitikatoplumsektörlerkategori̇lerfinansne , nerede , ne zamangündembi̇k i̇lanlarıdünya ihtdış i̇lişkileremtiai̇şletme-yönetimmevzuatnews in englishgüncelyorum i̇ncelemebölgelerdenözel dosyalarresmi gazetetiger monitorbankacılık sektörübilişimdemir-çelik sektörüenerji sektörügıda sektörühaberleşme sektörühizmetleri̇nşaat sektörükimya-petrokimya sektörümadencilik sektörümağazacılık-perakendecilik sektörümedya sektörüotomotiv sektörüplastik-kauçuk sektörüsanayisavunma sanayiisigortacılık sektörütarım ve hayvancılıktaşımacılık sektörütekstil sektörüturizm sektörü17 : 48 - putinden , gül ve erdoğana yeni yıl mesajı17 : 32 - yılın yazar , fikir insanı ve sanatçıları açıklandı17 : 29 - filistinin prag büyükelçisi hayatını kaybetti17 : 24 - bulgaristanda asgari ücret 340 leva oldu17 : 22 - türkiye , avrupa ’ nın 11. zengini ! 17 : 16 - kuzu paralel devlet twitlerine açıklama getirdi17 : 15 - ötv artışı sektörü kötü etkileyecek16 : 38 - sayıştay tcdd raporu : gerekirse soruşturulsun16 : 03 - resmi burslu öğrencilere yeni yıl sürprizi15 : 54 - fakıbabadan türgeve 3 milyon liralık arsahizmetler haberleriyurtdışı eğitime yılda 2 milyar $ türkiye ’ de her yıl yaklaşık 100 bin öğrenci üniversite , master , doktora , dil eğitimi , staj ve sertifika programlarıyla yurtdışına gidiyor .
bu şekilde yurtdışında eğitime yılda 2 milyar dolar harcanıyorturkcell 'den esnafa " ücretsiz sipariş hattı " ücretsiz sipariş hattı sayesinde dışarıdan sipariş alan bakkal , büfe , lokanta , su bayisi gibi işletmeler turkcell 'li müşterileri tarafından ücretsiz aranabilecek " made in turkey " damgalı ilk turkcell t40'lar banttan çıktımanisa 'daki banttan çıkan " made in turkey " damgalı türkiye 'nin ilk yerli üretim akıllı telefonu turkcell t40'lar ocak başında satışa sunulacak120 milyon dolarlık proje almanlarınalman avm firması ece , afyonkarahisar 'da hayata geçirilecek yeni alışveriş merkezin konsept planlamasını , kiralamasını ve uzun dönemli yönetimini üstleneceke.on 'un türk müşterisi almanlar 'ı solladıdünyanın en büyük enerji şirketlerinden olan alman e.on 'un , türkiye 'deki müşterisi anavatandaki müşterisini geçtitse , 65 firmanın sözleşmesini feshettitse 65 firmanın hizmet yeterlilik belgesi kullanma hakkı veren sözleşmeleri iptal edildi.cmc , şanlıurfa 'da hızla büyüyorcmc şanlıurfa çağrı merkezi 'nin çalışan sayısı bir ayda yüzde 60'ın üzerinde arttı.i̇talyan ferrero , 19. fabrikasını manisa 'ya yaptıteşvikte aslan payı gelişmiş illerinyeni teşvik sisteminin bir yıllık uygulama döneminde , en gelişmiş illerin yatırımlardan aldığı pay daha da arttı.kira artışı en çok kadıköy ve pendik 'tei̇ki ilçede kiralarda son bir yıldaki artış yüzde 20 oldu.1 milyar dolar yolunda heyecan da var endişe dekoçsistem , global bir şirkete dönüşme hedefi ile yurtdışında şirketleşme atağı başlattı .
i̇lk şirket azerbaycan 'da kuruldu.türkiye film endüstrisi 2 milyar doları geçtifilm endüstrisi her geçen yıl büyüyen türkiye 'de yılda yaklaşık 70 film çekiliyor.vodafone 'un servis gelirleri % 15 büyüdüvodafone türkiye , 2013-2014 mali yılının ilk çeyreğinde servis gelirlerinde yüzde 15,5 büyüme kaydetti.51 kente teşvik geldi destek yarıya düştüaralık 2012'de biten istihdam teşviki için seferber olan sanayici , sonunda resmi gazete 'de yayınlanan karar ile rahat nefes aldı.özel sektör köprü , yol yapmak yerine teknoloji geliştirmeliankara sohbetlerinin bu haftaki konuğu chp i̇zmir milletvekili rahmi aşkın türeli oldu ... 12345678sonraki sayfa dünya onlinedünya grubu hakkındaonline künyedünya gazetesi künyesiabonelikalışverişrssreklami̇letişimdiğer sitelerimizkobiden.comdunyastore.compcworld.com.trcomputerworld.com.trbyte.com.trdunyagida.com.trdunyainsaat.com.trdünya ekonomi tvthe montana catholic : around the diocese ( december 20 , 2013 ) st lucia government sues former minister for bad faith and misfeasance december 11 , 2013 i have no intention of making a mockery of the flashing style and no substance of the new uwp two press conferences .
however , the trend of the two press conferences that the party has staged is juvenile .
to the seasoned eye they are also self-serving and lack substance .
december 9 , 2013 while my farm blooms with vegetables , legumes and bananas , i have never committed myself to thinking that the harvest is guaranteed .
i was not brought up in the now generation and neither do i subscribe to the naïve rookies that are developing an inferiority complex , as some members of the new uwp ...
as if things weren 't bad enough for " 60 minutes , " the newsmagazine has now been given a prize nobody wants : poynter 's " error of the year " award , which it won for its disastrously botched story on the benghazi attacks .
craig silverman , the media world 's top error maven , wrote ...
" 60 minutes " was trashed all over twitter on sunday night for a two-part story on the nsa which critics dubbed obsequious at best .
the piece was fronted by reporter john miller , who had to tell viewers this at the top of the segment : " full disclosure : i once worked in the ...
' is it me or is that the weirdest thing you 've ever heard ? '
don lemon got manhandled by a rabbi on tv today ap spokesman : we did not ' sit ' on story of secret iran talks shep smith mocking rob ford is all we want in life let 's check in on how the ' today ' beards are growing what our presidents can teach us about how to live our lives new york 's newspapers usher in the bill de blasio era don lemon 's endorsement of stop and frisk gets him in big trouble ny post 's bill de blasio communist cover is reallllly subtle cracker barrel old country store 's top shareholder , sardar biglari , said he was considering a bid for the chain .
newseconomyfinancehealth carereal estateretailwealthautosearningsenergymediapoliticscommentaryspecial reportsasiaeuropemarketspre-marketsu.s.asiaeuropestockscommoditiescurrenciesbondsfundsetfsinvestingfinancial advisorspersonal financecnbc explainsportfoliowatchliststock screenerfund screenertechmobilesocial mediaenterprisegamingcybersecuritysmall businessfranchisingfinancingmanagementvideolatest videodigital workshopu.s. videoasia videoeurope videoceo interviewsanalyst interviewsfull episodesclosed captioningshowswatch livecnbc u.s.cnbc asia-pacificcnbc europecnbc worldfull episodescnbcabout cnbcsite mapvideo reprintsadvertisecareershelpcontactprivacy policyterms of serviceindependent programming reportlatest news releasesrsscertain market data provided by thomson reutersdata also provided bydata is a real-time snapshot * data is delayed at least 15 minutesglobal business and financial news , stock quotes , and market data and analysis © 2014 cnbc llc . all rights reserved.a division of nbcuniversal tuesday dec 31 , 2013 the dar es salaam city council ( dcc ) will soon start renovating the old boma to transform it into a tourist attraction .
online abonelike-gazetehoşgeldi̇n 201401 ocak 2014 çarşambaanasayfaekonomifinansdış haberlerpolitikatoplumsektörlerkategori̇lerfinansne , nerede , ne zamangündembi̇k i̇lanlarıdünya ihtdış i̇lişkileremtiai̇şletme-yönetimmevzuatnews in englishgüncelyorum i̇ncelemebölgelerdenözel dosyalarresmi gazetetiger monitorbankacılık sektörübilişimdemir-çelik sektörüenerji sektörügıda sektörühaberleşme sektörühizmetleri̇nşaat sektörükimya-petrokimya sektörümadencilik sektörümağazacılık-perakendecilik sektörümedya sektörüotomotiv sektörüplastik-kauçuk sektörüsanayisavunma sanayiisigortacılık sektörütarım ve hayvancılıktaşımacılık sektörütekstil sektörüturizm sektörü17 : 48 - putinden , gül ve erdoğana yeni yıl mesajı17 : 32 - yılın yazar , fikir insanı ve sanatçıları açıklandı17 : 29 - filistinin prag büyükelçisi hayatını kaybetti17 : 24 - bulgaristanda asgari ücret 340 leva oldu17 : 22 - türkiye , avrupa ’ nın 11. zengini ! 17 : 16 - kuzu paralel devlet twitlerine açıklama getirdi17 : 15 - ötv artışı sektörü kötü etkileyecek16 : 38 - sayıştay tcdd raporu : gerekirse soruşturulsun16 : 03 - resmi burslu öğrencilere yeni yıl sürprizi15 : 54 - fakıbabadan türgeve 3 milyon liralık arsagüncelyılın yazar , fikir insanı ve sanatçıları açıklandıamerikalı oyuncu joseph ruskin öldügörevimiz tehlike , uzay yolu , alacakaranlık kuşağı gibi dizilerde de rol alan amerikalı oyuncu josep ruskin hayata veda ettii̇şte dünyanın en pahalı otomobillerii̇hh 'dan suriye 'ye 5 tır yardımi̇hh i̇nsanı yardım vakfınca ankara 'dan suriye 'ye 5 tır yardım malzemesi gönderildisarıkamış şehitleri 'nin kardan heykelleri yapıldı " sarıkamış şehitlerini anma " etkinlikleri kapsamında 100 kamyon kar taşınarak kars gülahmet aytemiz güzel sanatlar ve spor lisesi öğrencileri tarafından yapımına başlanan kardan şehit heykelleri tamamlandı " talih kuşu " 2013'te balıkesir 'e 3 kez kondui̇kisi bandırma 'da , biri ayvalık 'ta olmak üzere geçen yıl 3 kez büyük ikramiye balıkesir 'e isabet ettisağlık durumunda değişiklik yokyeni yılın küresel zirveleri dünya sorunlarına çare arayacak2014'te dünyanın gündemini yine güvenlik , enerji , ekonomi ve çevre gibi konular oluşturacakaskerler terhis oldu , gözler kapıdai̇stanbul 'da vatani görevini tamamlayan askerler terhis oldusahte ilaca mobil takip dönemihastaların akıllı telefonlar yoluyla kullandıkları ilacın izini sürebilecekleri sistem yeni yılda başlıyorbeyazperde son 30 yılın rekorunu kırdıuzun bir aradan sonra ilk kez bu yıl , 49 milyon 580 bin kişi sinema salonlarını doldurduasgari ücret 2010'dan bu yana 373 lira arttıasgari ücret 2010 yılından itibaren 373 lira 5 kuruş zamlandıyeni yılın ilk bebeği elif zehraağrı kadın doğum hastanesi 'nde sedanur gençoğlu , bir kız bebek dünyaya getirdi .
yeni yılın ilk bebeği " elif zehra " olduhoşgeldi̇n 2014new york borsası yükselişle açıldı12345678sonraki sayfa as paris frets over its diminishing clout south of the sahara , a major contract in the crown jewel of france ’ s former west african colonies has gone to turkey ’ s limakgroup of companies . ( ... )
india ’ s dharni sampda ( formerly taurian mangangese & ferro alloy sa ci ) has confirmed its hold on the monogaga ( ... )
" the police arrested the director of netpress on a warrant issued by the prosecutor of the republic and which had as motive ' treason ' , " hit kampala , " a netpress journalist told afp on condition of anonymity . " since monday morning , the anxiety has been palpable in bujumbura for all those imprisoned for his work .
in september 2008 he was arrested on charges of a spokesman for shebab has warned burundi it could be next on the list .
the country 's army said it had stepped up security in response .
sydney new year 's eve : best vantage spots at capacitysydney morning heraldsydney new year 's eve 2013 : our guide to the best places to see in the new yearthe daily telegraphin depth : revelers get ready to ring in 2014 with fireworksabc newssee all 258 sourcesrelated new year 's eve հայաստանի արտաքին քաղաքականությունը 2013-ին .
մաքսային միություն , կտրուկ շրջադարձ եմ-ի հետ բանակցություններում , ղարաբաղ , թուրքիա , տարածաշրջանային զարգացումներ 2013-ի քաղաքական տարին հայաստանում սկսվեց ձանձրալի թվացող նախագահական քարոզարշավով , որին չէին մասնակցում ընդդիմադիր ու ընդդիմադիր կեցվածք ընդունած հիմնական ուժերը , բացի մեկից : « ժառանգություն » կուսակցության առաջնորդ րաֆֆի հովհաննիսյանը , ով պայքարի մեջ էր մտել ինքնաառաջադրման կարգով , ի վերջո , կարողացավ պաշտոնական արդյունքներով ստանալ ձայների 37 տոկոսը : գործող նախագահ սերժ սարգսյանի օգտին նույն պաշտոնական տվյալներով քվեարկել էր ընտրատեղամասեր եկած ընտրողների ավելի քան 58 տոկոսը : 2013-ի տնտեսական նորություններ. այլևս չկա « ազգային ավիափոխադրող » , մաքսային միության և գազի սակագնի վերաբերյալ քննարկումներ և տարաձայնություններ հայաստանում 2013-ի տնտեսական տարին առավել քան աղմկահարույց էր ու քննարկվող : տարին սկսվեց կանխատեսվող գնաճով , իսկ հուլիսին արդեն թանկացան գազը , էլեկտրաէներգիան և 5 օրով ՝ երևանի քաղաքային տրանսպորտը : աշնանը մեծ աղմուկ բարձրացրեց մմ-ին անդամակցելու հայաստանի որոշումը , տարին ավարտվեց թերևս ամենաթեժ լուրով ՝ « հայռուսգազարդի » 20 տոկոս բաժնեմասը պարտքի դիմաց տրվեց « գազպրոմին » : հարգելի արմենիանաուի ընկերներ և ընթերցողներ 'հավատարիմ մնալով մեր 12 տարվա ավանդույթին ' նոր տարվա և սուրբ ծննդյան տոների առթիվ այսօրվանից մենք ժամանակավորապես դադարեցնում ենք մեր աշխատանքը : հուսով ենք , որ առաջիկա օրերին դուք կծանոթանաք վերջին 12 ամիսների ընթացքում հայաստանի տարբեր ոլորտներին վերաբերող ամփոփիչ նյութերին : հուսով ենք , որ ձեր տոնական շրջանն արդեն իսկ հագեցած է ուրախությամբ և սիրով : մաղթում ենք ձեզ բարի ամանոր և սուրբ ծնունդ : 2013-ը փակելով դռները ՝ իր գիրկը հավերժ առավ մշակույթի ոլորտում նշանակալի ավանդ ունեցող մի քանի երախտավորների , որոնց անուններն ընդմիշտ կմնան մեր արվեստի պատմության մեջ ՝ հակոբ հակոբյան , սոս սարգսյան , ազատ գասպարյան , ջերարդ գաֆեսճյան , արամայիս սահակյան , վրեժ իսրայելյան , լևոն անանյան , հրաչյա բեյլերյան , ինչպես նաև երիտասարդ սերնդի տաղանդավոր արտիստներ ՝ մարկ սաղաթելյան , երվանդ ենգիբարյան … իսկ դուք արդեն խոզի բուդն ապխտե ՞ լ եք , իսկ բլինչիկի շերտերը պատրաստե ՞ լ եք , իսկ գաթայի շերտախմո ՞ րը , իսկ պասուց տոլմա ՞ ն , նվերնե ՞ րը ...
« իսկ » -երի ամբողջ շարանը , մի կողմ թողած աշխարհաքաղաքականությունը , տնտեսության գնահատականները , ի վերջո , ցուրտ եղանակը , այս օրերին ամենաշատն է անհանգստացնում բոլորին , մասնավորապես տնային տնտեսուհիներին , ովքեր մեծագույն ջանասիրությամբ ու ամենայն պատասխանատվությամբ պատրաստվում են ամանորյա տոնական սեղանների ու նվերների « մրցավազքին » : երեքշաբթի մոսկվայում կայացած եվրասիական տնտեսական բարձրագույն խորհրդի նիստի ժամանակ մաքսային միության ( մմ ) անդամ պետությունները հաստատել են ռուսաստանի , բելառուսի և ղազախստանի միասնական տնտեսական տարածքին հայաստանի միանալու « ճանապարհային քարտեզը » , որը շարունակում է լայն քննարկումների առարկա մնալ հայաստանում : մինչ հայաստանը հրաժեշտ է տալիս 2013-ին , ձմեռն իր սառույցով ու ձյունով տոնական շրջանի համար ստեղծել է բոլոր պայմանները տանը մնալու , ուտել-խմելու համար : լճի մտահոգություններ. դաշինքը զգուշացնում է , որ « հայաստանի զմրուխտին » վտանգ է սպառնում անհեռատես շահագործման հետևանքով հայաստանի քրեակատարողական հիմնարկներում հիմնական մտահոգությունը զբաղվածության բացակայությունն է , գերբնակեցումը , « գողական » բարքերը ուղեվարձի բարձրացման մարտերը շարունակվում են. հունվարի 1-ից տրանսպորտի թանկացման լուրերը հերքվում են հայաստանի եվրասիական ինտեգրման « ճանապարհային քարտեզը » .
ղարաբաղի հետ մաքսային սահմանը ' մարտահրավեր զրոյից ցածր .
արարատյան դաշտավայրի բնակիչները պայքարում են դաժան ցրտի , մերկասառույցի դեմ վերլուծաբանը 2013-ի մասին. բարեփոխումներ մինչև սեպտեմբերի 3-ը և հետքայլ ՝ դրանից հետո հաշվարկի խնդիր. ընդդիմությունը պնդում է , որ գազի համաձայնագրի վավերացումը ընթացակարգային խախտման հետևանքով աժ-ում ձախողվել է մեկ ելույթ , տարբեր մեկնաբանություններ. քաղաքական գործիչները տարբեր կերպ են արձագանքում լևոն տեր-պետրոսյանի ելույթին ամերիկացի , ֆրանսիացի համանախագահները հանդիպում են ղարաբաղի հկ-ների ներկայացուցիչների հետ , հանդես գալիս ժողովուրդների շփման օգտին հյաստանում աղետալի վիճակ. քաղաքացիների արտագաղթը շարունակում է սպառնալ ներքաղաքական ապագային մանրանասն տեղեկություն. նոր կենսաչափական անձնագրերը ճանապարհորդությունն ու ծառայություններն ավելի կհեշտացնեն privacy policyterms of useabout uscontact usemploymentlinksventure marketing © 2013 bhg , inc . all rights reserved .
e-mail news unsubscribe | kob.com for instance , is it not four long decades since it was officially resolved that the official seat of the government would move from dar es salaam to dodoma ? 13.number of chevron lubricants stores to be increased in azerbaijan secondssmalltownpapers - philipsburg mail , philipsburg montanafamily displaced in kountze fire on the bee alert neighbor helps boise pd nab two burglary suspects mon dec 30 , 2013 5 : 11 pm est update : megaload at cat creek summit on u.s. 20 mon dec 30 , 2013 1 : 11 pm est 18-year-old boisean killed in crash identified by coroner mon dec 30 , 2013 1 : 11 pm est patterson ’ s seat to be open when idaho legislature convenes mon dec 30 , 2013 1 : 11 pm est nic women : cardinals dump umpqua , win tourney mon dec 30 , 2013 03 : 11 am est huntington ’ s film could come to cd ’ a mon dec 30 , 2013 03 : 11 am est friendly scene at grumpy monkey sun dec 29 , 2013 05 : 11 am est staggs ignites cardinals in runaway win sun dec 29 , 2013 05 : 11 am est girl scout troop babysits on new years eve to raise money for trip to europe in 2015 sat dec 28 , 2013 3 : 11 pm est kid you should know : vision charter student thrives on volunteering , mentoring mon dec 30 , 2013 03 : 11 am est small group protests megaload in marsing mon dec 30 , 2013 03 : 11 am est head-on collision kills two men mon dec 30 , 2013 03 : 11 am est bonner county eyes plan to not hire smokers mon dec 30 , 2013 11 : 11 am est from crapo to southwick , 2013 had a few downers sun dec 29 , 2013 3 : 11 pm est apartments cleared for occupancy sun dec 29 , 2013 1 : 11 pm est plea entered in gun case sun dec 29 , 2013 1 : 11 pm est bonner county tobacco policy resurfacing sat dec 28 , 2013 1 : 11 pm est deicing additive getting itd test sat dec 28 , 2013 1 : 11 pm est we do link to other websites we think you may enjoy but we are not responsible for the practices , or content of , those websites .
in addition to order processing needs , we may send an occasional promotional electronic newsletter with offers and information we think may be of interest to you .
if you do not wish to receive these newsletters you may unsubscribe at the bottom of the email .
cnbc 's phil lebeau shows how elon musk is changing the face of the auto industry and is considered one of the most influential people of 2014 .
a look at the epa 's initial estimates for the most fuel-efficient automakers in 2013 .
newseconomyfinancehealth carereal estateretailwealthautosearningsenergymediapoliticscommentaryspecial reportsasiaeuropemarketspre-marketsu.s.asiaeuropestockscommoditiescurrenciesbondsfundsetfsinvestingfinancial advisorspersonal financecnbc explainsportfoliowatchliststock screenerfund screenertechmobilesocial mediaenterprisegamingcybersecuritysmall businessfranchisingfinancingmanagementvideolatest videodigital workshopu.s. videoasia videoeurope videoceo interviewsanalyst interviewsfull episodesclosed captioningshowswatch livecnbc u.s.cnbc asia-pacificcnbc europecnbc worldfull episodescnbcabout cnbcsite mapvideo reprintsadvertisecareershelpcontactprivacy policyterms of serviceindependent programming reportlatest news releasesrsscertain market data provided by thomson reutersdata also provided bydata is a real-time snapshot * data is delayed at least 15 minutesglobal business and financial news , stock quotes , and market data and analysis © 2014 cnbc llc . all rights reserved.a division of nbcuniversal canada goose authorized retailer - antarctic connection latry , described by the new york times as a “ brilliant instrumentalist ... splendidly styles .
it was “ amazing to see someone who is the best in the world at what they do , no matter what they are doing , and it was amazing to see how calm he seminarian who attended the concert .
“ there ’ s a certain aspect of pride having him perform in our cathedral . ”
scheidecker said he would “ brag about this performance ” ole gunnar solskjaer 's eye for a chance sees him settle on cardiff ...
chris wathan : will ole gunnar solskjaer be the man to pick cardiff ...
arsenal boss arsene wenger backs ole gunnar solskjaer to be a success ...
terry phillips : ole gunnar solskjaer has plenty to be impressed by in ...
homehomehot topics ( 1 new ) current affairsworld newsbusiness & # 38 ; financeindustry sectorstechnologysciencesportlifestyleentertainment & # 38 ; artsworld newsworld newseuropenorth americalatin americacaribbeanasiaafricamiddle eastsouth pacificeuropeeuropewesternnortherneasternnorthern europenorthern europedenmarkestoniafinlandicelandlatvialithuanianorwayswedenbaltic statesfaroe islandsgreenlandnorwayeconomypoliticssport arsenal win ugly to return to the toprte 17 : 37 1-jan-14 new deadly virus not yet a threat to the world says fauciby montana news what the real meaning of memorial day is all aboutby montana news world junior championship : dano expected to be dominanant for slovakia the years , it has been a way to provide for of “ this is how to do it , ” and need to acknowledge “ i find a lot of energy in this ” work with “ it ’ s time to take this issue head on and deal with it in our homes .
and the best way to start is with new residential construction , ” krist told kwbe radio .
men interested in studying for the priesthood in the diocese of duluth are encouraged to contact a member of the vocation team .
a special thank you to pat holscher for permission to use photographs of some of the churches listed below .
currently no services are being heldattended to by st. mary magdalen , worland & ldquo ; i didn ’ t know how to use water efficiently , but the new methods acquired will help me and my family to cultivate even during the dry season , & rdquo ; she said. ippmedia.com © 1998-2013 .
all rights reservedain alyaqeen | ain al yaqeen weekly arab political magazine spa did not report whether the defendants denied the charges .
at the same meeting sheikh nasser bin turki bin daraan , of the qatifi daraan family , also publicly swore allegiance to the saudi monarch , calling on god protect the custodian of the two holy mosques king abdullah bin abdulaziz .
he said " we pray to god to guide your steps and aid you to serve the kingdom and its people .
we pray to god to protect our homeland and its security and stability under your wise rule " adding " may god protect our homeland from all evils . "
sheikh nasser bin turki bin daraan also publicly disowned a member of the daraan family , muhammad bin maeed bin badah al-dossari , who has been described as a saudi dissident living abroad .
he told the king " we hereby announce that the deviant muhammad bin maeed bin badah bin saad bin muhammad bin daraan bin saad al-waadani al-dosari is no longer a member of the daraan family " adding that " the daraan family has sacrificed lives in the unification of the kingdom of saudi arabia under the leadership of king abdulaziz .
our family participated in a number of battles along with king abdulaziz and this renegade [ al-dosari ] who has deviated from the right path is no longer a member of our family . "
a native of greenvine , she was a longtime resident of kountze .
a choice for corporate america : are you with america or the cayman islands ?
despite such terminology as " fiscal cliff " and " debt ceiling , " the great debate taking place in washington now has relatively little to do with financial issues .
it is all about ideology .
it is all about economic winners and losers in american society .
it is all about the power of big money ....
the veil of secrecy at the fed has been lifted , now it 's time for change this election is not a soap opera or a football game : it is about the future of our country " the huffington post " is a registered trademark of thehuffingtonpost.com , inc .
all rights reserved.get paid to " hangout " | kob.com billings man arrested for suspicion of carrying a concealed weaponby montana news moped vs .
suv at underpass and state ave intersectionby montana news can it be fixed ?
do we want to ? by j.d. longstreet rite of electwelcome to the webpage for the diocese of duluth office of worship .
our hope is that you will find this page a useful source for resources in celebrating the church 's sacred rites and catechesis in liturgy.as we prepare for the lenten season with our catechumens and candidates , the offoce of liturgy announces : so who are you , chris baker , and why are you on my radio station ?
we have to do our best ; we owe this generation ’ s veterans and soldiers that .
pleasecontactannetteif you plan toattend any of the youth ministers ' meetings.phone 218-724-9111 or e-mail at amerritt @ dioceseduluth.org he said that insulin is one of the new products that tsb and its partners exhibited to people who attended the two-day exhibition as part of the mkonge day activities held in muheza district last week . & ldquo ; using the gas for cooking is more beneficial .
we ’ ll demonstrate use of the gas , packed in special bags , for cooking , & rdquo ; he said .
the chairman of mkonge day preparation and promotion committee , lai mpuma , said the celebrations were held as part of an intensive programme by sisal stakeholders to promote sisal farming in tanzania .
basseterre , st kitts -- cruisers to alaska know about helicopters .
the crème de la crème tour in skagway and juneau is strapping into a temsco chopper for an exhilarating landing on a glacier .
rss terms of servicene , nerede , ne zaman ... - dünya gazetesi online abonelike-gazetehoşgeldi̇n 201401 ocak 2014 çarşambaanasayfaekonomifinansdış haberlerpolitikatoplumsektörlerkategori̇lerfinansne , nerede , ne zamangündembi̇k i̇lanlarıdünya ihtdış i̇lişkileremtiai̇şletme-yönetimmevzuatnews in englishgüncelyorum i̇ncelemebölgelerdenözel dosyalarresmi gazetetiger monitorbankacılık sektörübilişimdemir-çelik sektörüenerji sektörügıda sektörühaberleşme sektörühizmetleri̇nşaat sektörükimya-petrokimya sektörümadencilik sektörümağazacılık-perakendecilik sektörümedya sektörüotomotiv sektörüplastik-kauçuk sektörüsanayisavunma sanayiisigortacılık sektörütarım ve hayvancılıktaşımacılık sektörütekstil sektörüturizm sektörü17 : 48 - putinden , gül ve erdoğana yeni yıl mesajı17 : 32 - yılın yazar , fikir insanı ve sanatçıları açıklandı17 : 29 - filistinin prag büyükelçisi hayatını kaybetti17 : 24 - bulgaristanda asgari ücret 340 leva oldu17 : 22 - türkiye , avrupa ’ nın 11. zengini ! 17 : 16 - kuzu paralel devlet twitlerine açıklama getirdi17 : 15 - ötv artışı sektörü kötü etkileyecek16 : 38 - sayıştay tcdd raporu : gerekirse soruşturulsun16 : 03 - resmi burslu öğrencilere yeni yıl sürprizi15 : 54 - fakıbabadan türgeve 3 milyon liralık arsane , nerede , ne zaman ... • pınar kalem 11 .
kişisel resim sergisi , i̇stanbul sanayi odası sanat galerisi ’ nde . • robertson , osmanlı başkentinde fotoğrafçı ve hakkâk , koç üniversitesi anadolu medeniyetleri araştırma merkezi ’ nde . • naz köktentürk - küstüm oynamıyorum sergisi , rezan has müzesi ’ nde . • 2014 felekten bir gece serkan çağrı ve orkestrası – ahmet cemal , valentin ’ de . • çubuklu hayal ’ de mabel matiz ile yılbaşı - masa , çubuklu hayal kahvesi ’ nde .
trabert , who was on hand at the signing ceremony for the tax cut last year , draws a harder line .
“ there ’ s no need for a sales tax increase .
there ’ s no need for changing deductions or anything like that , ” he says .
“ we have to get our tax burden down and you just shift it if you reduce one tax and increase another . ”
even if it means voting for something that could be interpreted as a tax increase , loyalty to brownback may trump ideological purity .
“ he has little to no impediments , ” dillmore says , “ to driving his agenda as quickly and efficiently as possible . ”
every friday they set up shop in the enerbase parking lot .
they open the blue coolers and let the varieties of peppers , cucumbers and other produce peek out for the customers to pick and choose from the selection .
a new novel by the contemporary uzbek writer and poet hamid ismailov who lives in london today , is entitled “ zhinlar basmi ” ( dance of devils ) .
it is a story of life of a prominent uzbek writer abdulla qadyri , the author of historical novels " days bygone " and " scorpion from the altar ” , who was arrested and executed in october 1938 .
in the short interview for fergana.ru , hamid ismailov talks about his new novel and shares details of its writing process .
come out of the shade .
the photographers from central asia and southern caucasus are invited to participate in " documentary photography " the moon-faced , a film by nazym abbasov , is conquering the world the bloody right of the first night .
« the burden of virginity » documentary is filmed in uzbekistan for the first time the works of abdulkhamid chulpon are published in russian language uzbekistan : the authorities circumvented a french and german film show at the museum of cinematograph in tashkent second bravo art caf & # 233 ; opened in the ferghana valley .
this one in the city of osh nukus museum : storeroom of arts in the epicenter of trouble vyacheslav useinov : we all are dealing with the reality we do not really understand until now , i saw no reason to question that .
but as a current university student , i ’ m beginning to wonder if i should .
our parents tell us the same .
it doesn ’ t leave you with much of an option , does it ?
all this basically tells me is , go to university and get a degree , or be unsuccessful .
multiple choice not only kills the creativity of an individual , but it forces us to conform to a set of answers designed in a way to set you up for failure .
not all of the procrastination is wasted time , though .
i saw a quote on facebook by albert einstein , and it states , “ education is not the learning of fact , but the training of the mind to think , ” and i don ’ t think that universities are doing a good job at allowing us to think .
life is long , and we spend all of it learning .
to assume that all the learning much happen with a university degree in the year 2013 is one of the greatest mistakes to make .
exec who led pilot flying j briefly after jimmy haslam bought browns has new job fri sep 20 , 2013 2 : 23 pm edt cleveland police looking for suspects in shooting death of a man fri sep 6 , 2013 4 : 23 pm edt grand jury clears police in ys death mon dec 30 , 2013 6 : 23 pm est beavercreek man killed in puerto rico mon dec 30 , 2013 2 : 23 pm est police say 5-year-old dies after being forced to do pushups , squats by dad fri dec 20 , 2013 10 : 23 am est lights out for 60 and 40-watt bulbs mon dec 30 , 2013 8 : 23 pm est year ’ s bad memories shredded in times square sun dec 29 , 2013 12 : 23 am est a look inside newtown shooter ’ s home fri dec 27 , 2013 10 : 23 pm est cowboys ’ coach : romo out for eagles finale fri dec 27 , 2013 2 : 23 pm est no indictments in yellow springs standoff shooting mon dec 30 , 2013 6 : 23 pm est beavercreek man killed while vacationing in puerto rico mon dec 30 , 2013 6 : 23 pm est enon police seek to id drive-thru cigarette burglars mon dec 30 , 2013 6 : 23 pm est man shot in abdomen in springfield mon dec 30 , 2013 4 : 23 pm est sexual assault reported at bgsu tue aug 27 , 2013 2 : 23 pm edt france ’ ready to punish ’ syria tue aug 27 , 2013 2 : 23 pm edt indian ministry > prayersojibwe prayergrandfather , look at our brokenness.we know that in all creationonly the human familyhas strayed from the sacred way.we know that we are the oneswho are dividedand we are the oneswho must come back togetherto walk in the sacred way.grandfather , sacred one , teach us love , compassion , honorthat we may heal the earthand heal each other.- author unknown the our father " nossinan ishpiminggijigong ebiian.apegishkitchitwawendaming kidijinikasowin.apegishbi-dagwishinomagak kidogimawiwin.enendaman apegishijiwebak , tibishko gijigong me gogaie aking.mijishinam nongomgijigak ninpakwejiganiminanminik eioiangendasso-gijigak.bonigidetawishinamgaie ga-iji-nishkiigoian , eji-bonigidetawangidwagi-iji-nishkiiiangidjig.kego gaieijiwijishigangengagwedibeningewining.midagwenamawishinamdash maianadak.mege-ing. "
in the language of the anishinabewe say " miigwetch " for visiting our page .
wall street 's best mindsdecember 20u.s. economy may be " only game in town " misión sucre egresó 3.884 nuevos profesionales en lara estos 3.884 profesionales forman parte de los 22.298 egresados de la misión educativa desde el año 2003 , cuando se inició este programa durante el gobierno del ... educación avanza como prioridad para el cumplimiento del plan de la patriaeste año se lograron importantes acuerdos en cuanto al aumento de salarios de maestras y profesores con la firma de sus respectivas convenciones colectivas en las que se ... pagos de pasivos laborales mediante petrorinoco se realizarán en enerolos días 16 y 17 enero del año entrante , 707 trabajadores universitarios jubilados están convocados para el cobro de sus prestaciones sociales , de acuerdo con el ...
educación avanza como prioridad para el cumplimiento del plan de la patria pagos de pasivos laborales mediante petrorinoco se realizarán en enero hanson : gobierno revolucionario está construyendo un sistema de equidad en materia educativa la ministra del poder popular para la educación , maryann hanson , señaló este lunes que a través de la inversión del gobierno revolucionario en materia educativa se está " construyendo un sistema de igualdad y de equidad y eso es el socialismo " bonny gómez , uno de los integrantes del frente de trabajadores de la educación del estado lara , recordó que el presidente de la república , nicolás maduro , aprobó el 10 de diciembre pasado la homologación salarial para los educadores dependientes de las gobernaciones , con respecto a los docentes acreditadas a la udo maestrías en las áreas de salud y educación en la maestría en salud pública la acreditación , por 5 años , de este programa que se imparte en la modalidad presencial es en sus 4 menciones : administración de la atención médica hospitalaria , epidemiología , administración sanitaria integral y educación para la salud , para el núcleo bolívar en 93 % se ubica la tasa de escolaridad primaria en venezuela la tasa neta de escolaridad primaria en venezuela se ubicó este 2013 en 93 % , lo que representa ocho puntos por encima de los niveles de escolaridad registrados en la cuarta república jubilados y pensionados de la ucv deberán censarse a partir del 6 de enero de 2014 infringement of privacy and our company will act accordingly .
seesmalltownpapers - philipsburg mail , philipsburg montanabrookings register cuiva care se luptă cu facturile de întreținere prin drumul taberei , berceni , balta albă , unuia care orbecăie pe străzile periculoase din pantelimon , din ferentari ori din ozana , ar putea să-i înghețe sângele dacă ar auzi de satul francez , din bucurești .
cel mai probabil ar fi tentat să-și imagineze ceva , așa , măsurat cu șublerul și gândit de vizionari , cu detalii milimetrice și ... probabil că cele mai la zi subiecte sunt din nou cele legate de țigănia dintre cele două palate , cotroceni și victoria , pe teme de importanță națională , cum ar fi bugetul de stat pe anul 2014 și ședința csat în legătură cu bugetele ministerelor de care depinde securitatea statului .
convocată la o oră la care prim ministrul are programate întâlniri cu premieri ai țărilor care ...
învăţământul românesc suferă ca un cal de povară .
adică el e sănătos , în putere , da-i vai de capu ’ lui !
trebuie să tragă până cade în genunchi .
iarăşi se ridică , iar e pus la ham , iar i se încarcă în spinare pietre de moară .
în cazul de faţă pietrele de moară sunt factorii de decizie din minister .
unde , bineînţeles , cel mai „ greu ” este ministrul .
uneori chiar cel ...
chit că încă nu a venit sorocul , un bilanţ al mandatelor lui traian băsescu se impune .
nu , formularea nu este adecvată , pentru că ea poate sugera un demers exhaustiv sau unul academic .
ori o încercare contabilicească , obiectivă , de a stabili o realitate .
nu-mi propun niciuna dintre cele trei variante .
eu vreau să spun cum simt eu românia după aproape două mandate , de câte cinci ani , ...
pare incredibil că după sintagma ambasadorului mark gitenstein „ simplul fapt că puteţi protesta fără teama de a fi împuşcaţi ” , ambasada statelor unite la bucureşti a deschis un site , www.banipierduti.ro , în care să poată vedea tot românul care ştie dea un search pe net cum sunt prăduiţi banii publici în românia .
probabil că s-au săturat şi americanii să vadă cu câtă nesimţire ...
inventatorii români şi-au reconfirmat meritele la salonul internaţional archimedes 2010 de la moscova la al xiii-lea salon internaţional de inventică „ archimedes 2010 ” , care s-a desfăşurat în perioada 30 martie-2 aprilie 2010 , în parcul expoziţional „ sokolniki ” din moscova , au fost etalate peste 980 de invenţii din 15 state europene şi asiatice , precum şi din 47 de regiuni din federaţia rusă .
anul acesta , românia a fost reprezentată de forumul inventatorilor români ( fir ) şi ...
o dată cu îndepărtarea lui călin popescu tăriceanu de la conducerea pnl , a ieşit din spaţiul public singurul adversar real pentru traian băsescu .
în momentul de faţă , adversarul preşedintelui a rămas el însuşi .
nici mircea geoană , nici crin antonescu nu joacă măcar în aceeaşi ligă cu preşedintele , ca să nu mai vorbim de recenta candidatură a asr prinţul radu de românia .
alegerile europarlamentare reprezintă , printre altele , şi parastasul de … câţi ani , oare ? 13 ? de la decesul societăţii civile româneşti . aş plasa momentul morţii în 1996 , odată cu câştigarea alegerilor de către emil constantinescu şi cdr .
într-un anume sens , a fost atunci triumful singurei forme de manifestare reală a societăţii civile româneşti , piaţa universităţii .
petiţiile ...
la începutul anului , numeroşi observatori îşi imaginau că de data aceasta ciclul economic global va fi diferit .
pe măsură ce se înmulţeau dovezile că economia sua cunoştea cea mai severă criză pe piaţa creditelor şi cea imobiliară de după cel de-al doilea război mondial , mulţi sperau că sănătatea structurală a economiilor europeană şi asiatică le vor împiedica să răcească ...
în lupta oamenilor politici pentru putere şi influenţă , în goana după putere şi interese personale , în încercările ( reuşite ) de manipulare a opiniei publice , ceea ce se distruge este tocmai omul , omul simplu care îşi trăieşte pur şi simplu viaţa , şi al cărui duşman cel mai mare pare să fie tot omul , chiar când natura îi este şi ea potrivnică . © 2013 cadran politic · rss · designed by theme junkie · powered by wordpress yemen news headlines a sanaa court on sunday sentenced to death a yemeni al-qaeda suspect for his role in a deadly attack on a security headquarters in aden in 2011 , an official said .
al-qaeda in the arabian peninsula , a franchise of the global jihadist network , is active in yemen and is seen by the united states as its most dangerous branch .
the court convicted ahmad kadiri ahmad turki of belonging to aqap and ... ( 12 / 29 / 2013 9 : 59 : 04 am ) airport to airport transport : no worries theres a bus service that leaves don muang regularly for transit passengers to suvannabhumi airport as well as a mini bus van service that also goes there .
just go to the entrance at arrival lounge or ask the airport information .
avoid the touts who may accost you or any taxis drivers --there are con men .
at the new airport the authorities have been able to curtail the touts inside the airport and rogue taxi drivers but in december they are back again by the doors so watch out and do not accept rides from these taxi cabs .
go to the taxi stand and tell the counter where you wish to go .
they will give you chit .
you pay 50baht extra on top of the meter price for taxis .
newseconomyfinancehealth carereal estateretailwealthautosearningsenergymediapoliticscommentaryspecial reportsasiaeuropemarketspre-marketsu.s.asiaeuropestockscommoditiescurrenciesbondsfundsetfsinvestingfinancial advisorspersonal financecnbc explainsportfoliowatchliststock screenerfund screenertechmobilesocial mediaenterprisegamingcybersecuritysmall businessfranchisingfinancingmanagementvideolatest videodigital workshopu.s. videoasia videoeurope videoceo interviewsanalyst interviewsfull episodesclosed captioningshowswatch livecnbc u.s.cnbc asia-pacificcnbc europecnbc worldfull episodescnbcabout cnbcsite mapvideo reprintsadvertisecareershelpcontactprivacy policyterms of serviceindependent programming reportlatest news releasesrsscertain market data provided by thomson reutersdata also provided bydata is a real-time snapshot * data is delayed at least 15 minutesglobal business and financial news , stock quotes , and market data and analysis © 2014 cnbc llc . all rights reserved.a division of nbcuniversalsmalltownpapers - east bernard express , east bernard texas diocese of duluth - catholic church in northeastern minnesota ex-marine to run to marshall bowl game mon dec 23 , 2013 01 : 20 am est power knocked out for thousands in w.va. sun dec 22 , 2013 9 : 20 pm est judges retirements may cause backlog sun dec 22 , 2013 7 : 20 pm est venezuela to end gasoline subsidies sun dec 22 , 2013 7 : 20 pm est osha cites mullens supermarket for safety hazards mon dec 30 , 2013 7 : 20 pm est man accused of town center robberies arrested again on new charges mon dec 30 , 2013 9 : 20 pm est puppy mill law mon dec 30 , 2013 9 : 20 pm est mctc implements a new schedule mon dec 30 , 2013 01 : 20 am est staying resolved in the new year sun dec 29 , 2013 11 : 20 pm est new year ’ s eve preparations underway in charleston , wv mon dec 30 , 2013 7 : 20 pm est holiday season has recycling bins backed up mon dec 30 , 2013 9 : 20 pm est police prepare for new year ’ s dui crackdown mon dec 30 , 2013 9 : 20 pm est police prepare for new years dui crackdown mon dec 30 , 2013 7 : 20 pm est maria to send 10 of its residents to the university — attackers in burundi chopped off the limbs of a 5-year-old albino boy and thoma vyegura , who was not albino , was also killed while trying to protect his snow for thursday ?
mon dec 30 , 2013 7 : 07 pm est poll : afghanistan war sets a u.s. low mon dec 30 , 2013 1 : 07 pm est beechcraft to be bought by cessna parent company fri dec 27 , 2013 11 : 07 am est nlr cyclist is searching for his heros mon dec 30 , 2013 9 : 07 pm est kris allen and cody belew performing at nye event in nlr mon dec 30 , 2013 9 : 07 pm est lr zoo grieving loss of 13-year-old giraffe mon dec 30 , 2013 5 : 07 pm est calorie counts coming to vending machines mon dec 30 , 2013 7 : 07 pm est oaklawn offers fans oaklawn anywhere mon dec 30 , 2013 5 : 07 pm est kris allen performing at nye event in nlr mon dec 30 , 2013 9 : 07 pm est lr zoo announces death of jigsaw the giraffe mon dec 30 , 2013 5 : 07 pm est spokesman : beebe expected to ask darr to resign mon dec 30 , 2013 9 : 07 pm est tennessee suspect arrested on bus in arkansas mon dec 30 , 2013 5 : 07 pm est lr zoo announces death of giraffe jigsaw mon dec 30 , 2013 5 : 07 pm est mcdaniel asst. joining psc as administrative judge mon dec 30 , 2013 3 : 07 pm est man killed in oklahoma shooting was arkansan mon dec 30 , 2013 1 : 07 pm est & ldquo ; those are the two smallest armories in terms of number of soldiers , maj. gen. david sprynczynatyk north dakota is in the midst of one of its wettest years , and that isn ’ t helping the corn harvest , officials said .
folk-murrey is a native of the center-stanton area , but has called wilton home for the past three years .
she attended the hair academy and soon returned to working at spa d ’ athena and at glance spa and salon in bismarck . & ldquo ; some of our deputies in bismarck had received some information that kelly touche redroad was in the area , & rdquo ; he said . & ldquo ; the investigation led them to the walmart parking lot in mandan . & rdquo ; & ldquo ; we shouldn ’ t waive it for the lutheran church , & rdquo ; city councilman dallas morast said . & ldquo ; we shouldn ’ t waive it for the methodist church , we shouldn ’ t waive it for the catholic church . & rdquo ; the center city council discussed the issue monday during a meeting at city hall .
a request was submitted by kristen henke to waive the large hall fee for a daycare breakfast .
the board passed the waiver 3-1 .
councilman keith erhardt dissented .
councilman eric casson was absent .
abate is at it again , but this year they are expanding their toy fundraiser to local grocery stores .
turkey : kurdish boy burns himself in protest at incarceration of abdullah ocalan iraqi kurdistan oil revenues to cumulate in us bank , jpmorgan chase & # 38 ; ...
fate of un aid route to syria up in the air will the nikkei continue to fly ?
charts suggest it will newseconomyfinancehealth carereal estateretailwealthautosearningsenergymediapoliticscommentaryspecial reportsasiaeuropemarketspre-marketsu.s.asiaeuropestockscommoditiescurrenciesbondsfundsetfsinvestingfinancial advisorspersonal financecnbc explainsportfoliowatchliststock screenerfund screenertechmobilesocial mediaenterprisegamingcybersecuritysmall businessfranchisingfinancingmanagementvideolatest videodigital workshopu.s. videoasia videoeurope videoceo interviewsanalyst interviewsfull episodesclosed captioningshowswatch livecnbc u.s.cnbc asia-pacificcnbc europecnbc worldfull episodescnbcabout cnbcsite mapvideo reprintsadvertisecareershelpcontactprivacy policyterms of serviceindependent programming reportlatest news releasesrsscertain market data provided by thomson reutersdata also provided bydata is a real-time snapshot * data is delayed at least 15 minutesglobal business and financial news , stock quotes , and market data and analysis © 2014 cnbc llc . all rights reserved.a division of nbcuniversal.mobile.cb.cd.ct.ctl.fs.ib.it.l.lcs.lh.page.rl.sa.sb.sbb.sg.sh-business.sh-culture.sh-news.sh-sport.sp.st.td.tt.ttb.txt.ls.lhs.lm.smimg.pullquoteleft.pullquoteleft img.pullquoteleft p.main.pullquoteleft p.by.pullquoteright.pullquoteright img.pullquoteright p.main.pullquoteright p.by family , fun and science at science north 's new year 's eve family day checkpoints — he knew he would be saying goodbye for a while .
no ticket .
no warning . & ldquo ; come get my wife , & rdquo ; he told his father by phone before being whisked off in a squad car . & ldquo ; they ’ re taking me away . & rdquo ; nighttime delivery offers promise to truckers in new york — and elsewhere l ’ heure semble à l ’ apaisement au burundi , alors que la tension ne cessait de monter depuis trois mois et l ’ adoption en catimini par le gouvernement d ’ un projet très contesté de révision de la constitution issue de l ’ accord de paix signé à arusha en 2000 et qui a permis le retour de la stabilité dans ce pays .
soumis à une forte pression interne et externe , le pouvoir a dû lâcher du lest .
depuis hier , le parlement du burundi a organisé un dialogue politique qui a pris fin aujourd ’ hui autour de ce projet , et qui a réuni des membres du gouvernement , du parlement , de l ’ opposition , de la société civile et des confessions religieuses , avec pour objectif de sortir de la crise dans laquelle il était en cela a été deux jours de débats intenses et passionnés .
mais fidèles à leur réputation , les 170 personnalités burundaises présentes se sont affrontées sans jamais élever la voix .
au final , ils ont tous accepté de réviser la constitution du burundi , très rapidement , sur des propositions qui font l ’ unanimité , notamment le regroupement des scrutins ou encore l ’ adoption du bulletin unique sur les questions qui fâchent , le troisième mandat pour le président burundais pierre nkurunziza ou la révision des dispositions qui assurent l ’ équilibre ethnique par exemple , ces personnalités ont décidé de jouer l ’ apaisement en recommandant de continuer à discuter sur ces points de ainsi , le président du parti cndd-fdd au pouvoir au burundi , pascal nyabenda : & rdquo ; je demanderai à l ’ assemblée nationale de tenir compte des résultats de cet atelier dans les prochaines délibérations , tout en sachant que tous les burundais attendent des amendements de la constitution qui rassurent tout le monde , mais aussi des amendements qui nous permettent d ’ avancer dans la en aparté , l ’ opposition exulte et parle de victoire , même si officiellement elle fait dans la mesure .
le président de l ’ adc-ikibiri , léonce ngendakumana : & rdquo ; nous sommes satisfaits des conclusions qui ont été arrêtées , pourvu qu ’ elles soient mis en application .
nous avons une triste expérience , nous pouvons être la balle est désormais dans le camp du parlement burundais ; il promet de le pouvoir burundais isolé dans son projet de révision constitutionnelle des femmes prient durant une messe , à bujumbura ( archives ) .
godong / universal au burundi , le pouvoir a initié depuis plus de deux mois une révision en profondeur de la constitution du burundi .
le gouvernement veut notamment lever le verrou constitutionnel des deux mandats présidentiels ce qui permettrait au président pierre nkurunziza de se représenter pour la troisième fois , ou encore ramener la majorité requise au parlement des deux tiers à une majorité simple des voix , au risque de toucher au partage du pouvoir entre les ethnies .
ce projet de révision est très contesté , et le mouvement de protestation vient de le camp de ceux qui contestent la révision de la constitution en cours ne cesse de s ’ élargir .
après la société civile , la quasi-totalité des partis politiques de ce pays , c ’ est autour de la très influente eglise catholique du les prélats de l ’ eglise catholique du burundi estiment que l ’ heure de réviser la constitution du burundi qui s ’ inspire largement de l ’ accord de paix signé en 2000 à arusha n ’ a pas encore sonné .
le président de la conférence des évêques & rdquo ; ces dispositions et d ’ autres semblables sont toujours nécessaires car les problèmes auxquels elles apportent des solutions , telles que la monopolisation du pouvoir par un groupe , l ’ exclusion des autres à base des partis politiques ou des ethnies , le respect des mandats politiques , sont loin d ’ être résolus . & bdquo ; le gouvernement burundais n ’ a jamais caché sa volonté d ’ aller jusqu ’ au bout de cette démarche , les évêques du burundi ont lancé une mise en garde très claire contre les dangers d ’ une démarche solitaire de la part du pouvoir. ni consensus , risquerait de compromettre notre processus de paix et de réconciliation . & bdquo ; un diplomate en poste au burundi estime qu ’ il s ’ agit là d ’ un mauvais coup pour le pouvoir burundais , qui se retrouve de plus en plus isolé brockton man charged in shooting at roxbury cell phone store sun nov 17 , 2013 7 : 15 pm est the mother of trayvon martin tells cambridge congregation of her grief following her son ’ s death sun nov 17 , 2013 3 : 15 pm est nh store reopens after refrigerant leak sickens 9 mon dec 30 , 2013 1 : 19 pm est nh ski jumper fairall qualifies for first olympics mon dec 30 , 2013 1 : 19 pm est nh house to vote on legalizing up to 1 oz. of pot mon dec 30 , 2013 11 : 19 am est victim of northampton crash ided as westfield man mon dec 30 , 2013 11 : 15 am est fewer held in new england for deportation mon dec 30 , 2013 09 : 15 am est blount leads pats to bye with 34-20 win over bills mon dec 30 , 2013 07 : 15 am est dad of tsarnaev friend killed in florida writes obama mon dec 30 , 2013 9 : 15 pm est ems helps deliver baby in front seat of car mon dec 30 , 2013 3 : 15 pm est menino and officials prepare for first night mon dec 30 , 2013 1 : 15 pm est south boston man wins powerball mon dec 30 , 2013 1 : 15 pm est callahan tunnel detours put to the test mon dec 30 , 2013 1 : 15 pm est greg zyla : in memory of andy granatelli mon dec 30 , 2013 1 : 15 pm est peter chianca : whats in and out for 2014 mon dec 30 , 2013 09 : 15 am est family asks for prayers for boy injured in zip line accident mon dec 30 , 2013 7 : 15 pm est weymouth firefighters to join abington in tribute to fallen marine mon dec 30 , 2013 5 : 15 pm est peter chianca : whats in and out for 2014 mon dec 30 , 2013 11 : 15 am est if you are using " windows " or any other applicable software , and which to receive a notice of receipt , before you send , click " options " and then " return receipt " to ensure we have received your notice © 2013 indexmundi - all rights reservedthe silsbee bee - classifieds on the bee russiarussiatatar-bashkirnorth caucasusputin hails cooperation to obamasuspected militants killed in n.caucasus blog archivemore from ozodi.tj бобои барфӣ , манъаш кун !
зиреҳпӯшҳои тоҷикистон дар марзи ворух ?
таҷлили соли нав дар хуҷанд бо арчаи 17-метра бобаки занҷониро ба зиндони эвин бурдаанд тағйироти кадрӣ дар ҳукумати тоҷикистон radio ozodi ( in tajik ) features & commentary a new president , barack obama , was elected , and a number of national races saw a changing of the guard , but statewide and locally , incumbent was the ri lawmaker wants calamari named state appetizer thu feb 28 , 2013 4 : 25 pm est hundreds gather in ri at mass for benedict xvi thu feb 28 , 2013 2 : 25 pm est ri native to lead naval war college in newport thu feb 28 , 2013 10 : 25 am est flu expected soon in ri mon dec 30 , 2013 6 : 25 pm est ri man handed over to mass. in 2012 murder mon dec 30 , 2013 6 : 25 pm est former alex and ani exec files wrongful termination lawsuit mon dec 30 , 2013 6 : 25 pm est significant late-week snowstorm for southern new england mon dec 30 , 2013 6 : 25 pm est flames destroy family ’ s home in fairhaven mon dec 30 , 2013 2 : 25 pm est shots fired on portland st in providence , no injuries sun dec 29 , 2013 4 : 25 pm est suspect in 2012 murder to be arraigned mon dec 30 , 2013 6 : 25 pm est popular tazza caffe in downtown closing mon dec 30 , 2013 6 : 25 pm est popular tazza caf in downtown closing mon dec 30 , 2013 2 : 25 pm est gas prices up 2 cents this week in ri mon dec 30 , 2013 12 : 25 pm est theatre-maker joan littlewood was a visionary , an iconoclast and a subversive .
her 1963 " documentary collage " about the bitter ironies of the first world war was way ahead of its time , using popular period song and & # 8230 ; cabrillo college engineering program to leave for ayguatemala on mondd why are more and more children walking across the border ?
worshipping at the altar of maxim & # 243 ; n , the drunken , devilish mayan god beloved ...
homehomehot topicscurrent affairsworld newsbusiness & # 38 ; financeindustry sectorstechnologysciencesportlifestyleentertainment & # 38 ; artsworld newsworld newseuropenorth americalatin americacaribbeanasiaafricamiddle eastsouth pacificlatin americalatin americasouth americacentral americacentral americacosta ricael salvadorguatemalahondurasnicaraguapanama how to go solar with no money downby montana news 12 / 31 / 2013 vaticanpope : a year that ends is one more step toward the hope of meeting godat the te deum of thanksgiving pope francis reflects on the christian vision of the passage of time . "
let us ask ourselves : how have we lived this time that he has given us ?
have we used it mainly for ourselves , for our own interests or have we also spent it for others ?
and god ? " .
the " contrasts " that exist in the city of rome.12 / 29 / 2013 vaticanpope talks about the holy family as refugees , prays for the synodduring the angelus , francis pope compares the flight into egypt to the " tragic fate of refugees " and of those hidden " exiles " , like the elderly .
" god is where man suffers . "
for him , ' excuse me , thank you , sorry " are the three key expressions on which to build peace within families .
he recites a prayer about jesus , mary and joseph in preparation for the consistory and the synod on the family , and greets via link-up the faithful in nazareth , loreto and barcelona.12 / 26 / 2013 vaticanpope : the feast of st stephen the first martyr dissolves the " fairy tale " image of christmasin today 's angelus , pope francis calls for a moment of silence and prayer for persecuted christians .
" there are more today than in the early days of the church . "
it is necessary to witness and report violations of religious freedom and discrimination .
for the pontiff , it is also necessary to contemplate the crèche as an " atmosphere of understanding and brotherhood " that is " so beneficial to the common good " may grow " in families and communities " .12 / 25 / 2013 vaticanpope : christmas , glory to the merciful god , and peace to people tormented by war and violencethe conflicts in syria , iraq , the holy land and africa are included in pope francis ' first christmas message .
may god " touch the hearts " of those engaged in human trafficking and child soldiers .
may the " lord of life protect those who are persecuted because of your name , " and may " everyone [ . . . ] come to know the true face of god , the father who has given us jesus . "
may " each of us give glory to god above all by our lives , by lives spent for love for him and his brothers and sisters . " required by the va to qualify them for homecare benefits . )
ryan golding is ready to lead sittingbourne to safety in the new year .
welling had centre-back blaine hudson sent-off as they lost at aldershot in skrill premier on saturday .
dartford boss tony burman admitted it was a massive blow to lose a 10th league game in a row on boxing day see the best of the action from the boxing day derby between dartford and welling sam denly says he has massive respect for opposite number neil cugley as he prepares for herne bay ’ s trip to in-form folkestone invicta on saturday . © 2013 indexmundi - all rights reservedthe silsbee bee - copyright policy obama : the law giver--obama giveth and obama taketh awayby j.d. longstreet " molon labe " ( come and take them ) gun controlby ray dilorenzo how do you get to work each day and how long does it take ?
take a look at commuting times — and methods — by state . pair arrested after gas thefts in monroe mon dec 30 , 2013 10 : 29 pm est washington not chosen by faa as drone test site mon dec 30 , 2013 2 : 29 pm est riverfront developer seeks ok to change project mon dec 30 , 2013 12 : 29 pm est developer seeks everett ’ s ok to change riverfront project mon dec 30 , 2013 04 : 29 am est man kidnapped girlfriend for las vegas wedding , police say mon dec 30 , 2013 6 : 29 pm est sounders fc to host tottenham in friendly mon dec 30 , 2013 6 : 29 pm est man charged in stabbing death of fox island man mon dec 30 , 2013 10 : 29 pm est lack of snow means no skiing yet at snoqualmie pass mon dec 30 , 2013 10 : 29 pm est pot sales to begin in colorado , a preview for washington mon dec 30 , 2013 10 : 29 pm est whats open , closed for holiday mon dec 30 , 2013 10 : 29 pm est 18-year-old found dead in car in idaho mon dec 30 , 2013 10 : 29 am est 2013 top ten stories in washington mon dec 30 , 2013 12 : 29 am est police collar trio for nw spokane burglaries mon dec 30 , 2013 10 : 29 pm est lapwai man killed in atv crash mon dec 30 , 2013 4 : 29 pm est readers ’ choices for top local stories of 2013 mon dec 30 , 2013 2 : 29 pm est lakewood street corner went from trash , toilets to ’ holiday gift for the community ’ mon dec 30 , 2013 10 : 29 am est columns | church | opinion | special sections | advertising | archivesnato-russia cooperation – the lights and shadows of a business-marriage | cadran politic nato-russia cooperation – the lights and shadows of a business-marriage next colaborarea rusia – nato – lumini și umbre ale unui business-mariaj © 2013 cadran politic · rss · designed by theme junkie · powered by wordpressburundi realities a crucial presidential election this june , and one thing is clear : it is up to for the east african community as we usher in 2010 challenge for the other eac members is that some of them cannot be said to have provision on proxy voting — voting on behalf of burundians in the diaspora — laws are yet to provide for the regulatory mechanisms on the activities of assassinating the winner .
in 1961 , prince louis rwagasore of uprona won the the then ruling uprona lost to the frodebu of melchior ndadaye , who was murdered there was a general sigh of relief when outgoing president domitien ndayizaye needs access to the ports of dar es salaam and mombasa on the indian ocean coast training to political parties , civil society , and other stakeholders in how to the provisions on proxy voting — the voting on behalf of burundians in the the meeting of the intergovernmental authority on development ( igad ) held in nairobi on 27 december had been intended to bring an end to the bloody fraternal fighting in south sudan . ( ... )
norway is one of the leading donors to the juba government .
and its assistance is also focussing on power dams in the country . ( ... )
the investment fund that the frenchman gilles assouline wanted to set up in juba via the british company gps3 investments ltd may never see the light of day . ( ... ) share reg fees are 5000 baht per 1m baht .
however the ruling is not clear but costs change due to this so use our prices only as a general guideline.bangkok costs are a lot higher than chiangmai.you can have 1m baht company but no and only available for us residents setting up in thailand or go to the section on amity treaty but before you think of starting one you must have an existing lawyers in bangkok , pattaya , korat , phuket and use a corporate law office in bangkok .
if house report = 6000 baht for an old house ( over 2 years ) & 3000 baht for a the security as a company .
once formed the remaining fees are the same as a company .
our fee is 14,000 baht which includes govt fees and id tax code work .
we now offer " o " visa services .
for new companies the new law requires a work permit to obtain a b visa from penang or another country .
if you do not meet the required residency visas . visas to the usa , uk etc we cannot help nor once you are in business for 12 months and you have we do charge travel & expenses if we have to fly to the main centres but we do keep these to a minimum as a lot of our work we do use other law offices .
these may vary but please do not hesitate to ask us. consultations will incur a 1000 baht feebut some lawyers charge 2500baht to 10,000 baht per copurt hearing on top opf your orginal deposit fee at the start .
we do assist all buyers of columns | church | opinion | special sections | advertising | archives economía | avn inflación registró una variación de 4,8 % en noviembreel estudio revela una tendencia a la desaceleración en el aumento de precios de bienes y servicios , que registró 5,1 % en octubre y se ubica en 2,2 % para diciembre , luego ... venezuela creará caja de divisas de la naciónel presidente nicolás maduro explicó que el nuevo instrumento será una caja nacional de divisas convertibles , de la cual " van a depender las importaciones de la ... 300 autobuses yutong llegan al país para sumarse a nuevos sistemas de transporteel ministro haiman el troudi detalló que con este nuevo lote suman “ 600 los autobuses que han llegado al país de un total de 2.000 ” que se espera adquirir 300 autobuses yutong llegan al país para sumarse a nuevos sistemas de transporte el presidente nicolás maduro expuso parte del plan anual para el desarrollo del nuevo orden económico interno que plantea , entre otros puntos , un nuevo sistema cambiario que busca promover la circulación justa de las divisas y mantener el equilibrio en los ingresos y egresos de las mismas el jefe de estado , nicolás maduro , sostuvo que “ el año 2014 va a ser un buen año económico para venezuela , para la familia venezolana , para la industria venezolana , para todas las actividades ” " logramos 1,6 % de crecimiento de la economía real y es una economía distributiva , porque si se evaluara otro tipo de economía son crecimientos para el capital .
esto es un crecimiento real económico distribuido en la sociedad " , apuntó el jefe de estado , nicolás maduro activan tres cajas para cambio de divisas a turistas en aeropuertos y bolipuertos la tasa de cambio oficial para los turistas extranjeros en el país quedó establecida en 11,30 bolívares , indicó el banco central de venezuela en días pasados misión alimentación distribuyó este 2013 más de 4 millones de toneladas de productos decomisan más de 2.600 kilos de pernil en el junquito sidor despachó 1,4 millones de toneladas de productos terminados de acero en 2013 discipline has new vocabulary at kennedy wed dec 25 , 2013 01 : 13 am est county examines tonganoxie agreement8 : 30 am fri dec 27 , 2013 11 : 13 am est updated : sportswriter bill reiter ’ s eyewitness account at lax fri nov 1 , 2013 7 : 13 pm edt updated : eyewitness account of shooting at lax fri nov 1 , 2013 3 : 13 pm edt county to buy new 911 recorder in 2014 mon dec 30 , 2013 7 : 13 pm est litefoot visits pittsburg state tue nov 19 , 2013 11 : 13 am est news in agriculture longhorns , but not the bevo kind mon nov 18 , 2013 1 : 13 pm est vets return to streets to reach the homeless thu dec 26 , 2013 05 : 13 am est shark photobomb ?
you be the judge !
mon dec 30 , 2013 9 : 13 pm est poll finds gop belief in evolution plummets mon dec 30 , 2013 9 : 13 pm est topeka area kennel set to expand mon dec 30 , 2013 7 : 13 pm est aaa and yellow cab team up to provide rides this new year mon dec 30 , 2013 7 : 13 pm est session on new standards will be at mayberry middle school mon dec 30 , 2013 09 : 13 am est ’ battle of the badges ’ blood drive begins thursday wed dec 11 , 2013 09 : 13 am est the mali government ’ s director-general for geology and mines , lassana guindo , has ( ... )
the man in charge of exploration on papillon resources ’ gold project at fekola since ( ... ) 225 charged for muzaffarnagar riotsthe hindusit chargesheets 225 people in muzaffarnagar riotstehelkasee all 21 sourcesrelated uttar pradesh here are all of our programs by title .
another great way to find a program is to go to prairie public & # 8217 ; s radio schedules .
log-on and dig deep into the news of the day .
it ’ s all online in our public newsroom . • best-selling author tom keyser , who is not only the best storyteller i have ever met , he is the most efficient and reliable writer in the business .
maybe i could get a volume discount if i register at the same time as my 17-year-old daughter , who also has her sights set on a post-secondary basketball career .
surely if i can handle my seven kids and run a business publication , i could squeeze in a few hours a day for basketball practice .
and three or four hours per day for classes .
oh yeah , and a couple of hours per evening for studying .
hmmm .
so , if you are reading , coach dan , add me to the list for tryouts this summer .
and ask the trainer to load up on cortisone and advil .
in those days , i wrote virtually all of the advertising copy , and we were going to press on monday , so i needed to drive out to canmore immediately to conduct the interview .
as i worked out the details of a friday evening interview , it suddenly hit me that nicholas would be devastated if i cancelled our trip to the mountains .
i told garry that one angle for the ad feature was to have me bring my son to stay at the lodge and write a first-person piece on the experience .
garry thought it was a great idea and invited nick and me to have dinner with him and his colleague peter .
on the one-hour drive to canmore , i counselled nick on the importance of being polite and respectful while we ate dinner and while i did the interview .
windtower became one of my best clients in the years to follow , and i think our initial meeting with nick along for the ride was a big factor in creating a great client relationship .
angela behaved like an angel and clearly helped me win over a new client that would also go on to be a regular advertiser .
as we approached the green , one of our group suggested we just pick up our balls and head to the next tee .
great idea , i thought , particularly since my tee shot on the par 3 had fallen short of the green and a par was unlikely .
9 . you didn & # 8217 ; t slip on some netting at the start of the day and fall awkwardly to the floor , injuring your wrist .
4 . you didn & # 8217 ; t try to carry a queen-size boxspring down to your basement only to find out that there is no way it would fit around the tight corner and through the door at the bottom of the stairs & # 8230 ; and you didn & # 8217 ; t gouge the newly painted walls in several places trying to get it through .
new town and parshall will face off once more across the net from each other .
for one team , it will be the end of the season .
the catechesis of the good shepherd is an approach to the religious formation of children from age three through adolescence that was established and approved in the diocese of des moines more than ten years ago .
the catechesis of the good shepherd highlights essential aspects of the christian message that nurture the child ’ s need to love and be loved and the child ’ s capacity to enjoy god ’ s presence in her / his life .
it is rooted in the bible , the liturgy of the catholic church , and the educational principles of maria montessori .
one of the key features of the catechesis of the good shepherd is the use of catechetical materials specially designed for children .
another feature is the use of a prepared environment , called the atrium , to foster children 's religious life .
for more information please contact mary heinrich 515-278-5684 , ext.130 or mheinrich @ saintpiuschurch.org evening of prayer and preparation before conferal of the sacrament of confirmation more efforts are needed to address the problem , he said , so as to fend off the illegal activities taking place in those areas for the betterment and protection of the country ’ s natural resources .
he urged officers in the ministry to obey rules and regulations put in place so as to protect the country 's resources for the benefit of future generations .
the report on the operation was tabled by the standing committee on lands , natural resources and environment under the chairmanship of james lembeli ( kahama , ccm ) .
your browser does not support scripttwo aaa midget teams too many ?
two aaa midget teams too many ? by : randy pascal – playback when i was eight , i was asked what i wanted to be when i grew up .
as a boy with a flawless mushroom cut , a wide-set grin , and teeth that could make a jigsaw puzzle look straight , i was insatiably interested in the world .
i wanted to learn and learn and learn in that order , and on one particular day , a new word i had just discovered tickled the tip of my tongue .
“ i don ’ t want to be mediocre . ”
admittedly i didn ’ t understand the implications of that sentence because i fumbled around for the next eight years of my life as children are poised to do .
yet part of me still believes that i don ’ t fully comprehend the importance of my answer to this day .
more often than not , one can find me collapsed in my bed mindlessly squawking at videos online or tearing through another bag of chips for an inexplicable all-nighter .
hadfield ’ s perspective , nuanced by his experiences in space , reminds us – or me at least – that to live idly is not to live at all .
gravity may feel like it weighs a ton sometimes .
it may be overbearing .
you may want to just crumble in your bed and open up another bag of chips .
danny kedwell has reiterated his desire to see out his career at gillingham but insists the deal must be right .
gillingham could be boosted by the return to action of midfielders chris whelpdale and amine linganzi this weekend. also to stress the value of family as a union of a added , " the elderly , for example , who are sometimes treated as a cumbersome presence. is to see how children and the elderly are treated . " neglect .
but he is also where man dreams , hopes to return to his homeland in freedom , plans and chooses for his life and dignity and that of his family . "
family is also drawn by the simplicity of life that it led in nazareth .
it is more and more a community of love and reconciliation , in which we can experience speaking off the cuff , he said , " let us remember the three key words to be intrusive in our family , we say ' excuse me ! '
when we are not selfish . . the importance they have in the church and in society .
preaching the gospel , in of jesus and our mother , and saint joseph , her husband .
let us ask them to enlighten , the holy family , i wish to entrust the synodal work to jesus , mary and joseph , and those present to join him in a prayer he recited : violence , rejection and division : may all who have been hurt or scandalized the sacredness and inviolability of the family , and its beauty in god 's plan .
he then added , " i extend a special greeting to the faithful who are linked © 2013 indexmundi - all rights reservednew year brings in a new minimum wage | kob.com some good news for albuquerque 's hourly workers may lead to big headaches for employers .
the base hourly pay for a waiter or waitress is right now $ 3.83 an hour , before tips .
" i 'm not sitting in a cubicle or on an assembly line , " said constand .
" people are trying to live off the minimum wage , and if they need to live off that , then it needs to be higher , " he said .
meritkapital diversifies to latvia - a concurrent view on cyprus cyprus on track , but paying down debt may hamper growth for a decade : imf the acts of the apostles provides an historic framework for understanding the rest of the new testament .
paul ’ s letters in particular come alive in a new way when they are read within the context of the acts narrative .
masafa mapya ya ' satellite ' kuanzia tareha 14 novemba , 2009 kwa vituo vifuatavyo : bienvenida del obispo pates a candidatos del curso de formación de estoy muy contento de dar la bienvenida a los candidatos que inician la formación de ministerio laico hispano de la diócesis de des moines .
ellos son guiados en este proceso por nelly lorenzo , directora del instituto de liderazgo pastoral en la arquidiócesis de chicago .
el tema de su primer retiro juntos es & ldquo ; el sentido de la vocación y la respuesta para la misión de apostolado .
admiro la dedicación de este grupo que están dando gran parte de su tiempo y energía para crecer en los caminos de dios para que , como apóstoles puedan traer la buena nueva de la salvación del señor jesús a sus comunidades parroquiales .
aquí podrá encontrar la homilía en la misa del inicio del curso de formación de ministerio laico hispano de la diócesis de des moines celebrada por el reverendísimo richard e. pates , obispo de des moines .
cuestionario del vaticano sobre el matrimonio y la vida en familia en preparación rumbo al sínodo extraordinario de 2014 llamado & ldquo ; los desafíos pastorales sobre la familia en el contexto de la evangelización , & rdquo ; , el santo padre ha pedido que las diócesis den la oportunidad a todos los católicos la oportunidad de responder un & ldquo ; documento preparativo . & rdquo ; la diócesis de des moines ha puesto los documentos en nuestra página web tanto en inglés como en español .
para más información o para completar el cuestionario utilizando surveymonkey , haga click aquí .
por favor consideren llenar la encuesta y enviarla a la diócesis de des moines a más tardar el 20 de diciembre del 2013 .
les notificamos que ha habido organizaciones difundiendo un cuestionario en que se han cambiado las preguntas .
para obtener las preguntas hechas directamente por el papa francisco , utilice la forma en nuestro sitio de internet .
escuchen un retiro cada semana .
los audios están en español .
celebraciones para el día de nuestra señora de guadalupe en la diócesis de des moines recepción a las 8 : 00pm ( tamales , pan de dulce y chocolate ) novena desde el 4 de diciembre hasta el 12 , a las 6 : 30 pm en días de la semana es a las 6 : 00pm y en fin de semana es después de las misas procesión y misa a las 8 : 15pm , recepción después de misa la festividad empieza a las 3 : 00p.m con danzas , comida , la representación de las apariciones de nuestra señora de guadalupe , cantos .
la procesión empieza a las 10 : 00p.m de la parroquia oloa a catedral .
la misa es a la media noche en la catedral de san ambrosio misa a las 7 : 00pm y recepción después de la misa misa a las 6 : 00p.m. y después de la misa es la procesión de la iglesia al gimnasio de la escuela .
hay una recepción en el gimnasio con comida típica y mariachis .
misa a la 1 : 00p.m. y una recepción después de la misa novena desde el 4 de diciembre al 12 de diciembre a las 6 : 00p.m.
misa bilingüe a las 7 : 00pm y una recepción después de la misa estas páginas están mantenidas por la comisión pastoral hispana de la diócesis de des moines .
es un trabajo en proceso .
si tiene algunas surgerencias o comentarios , por favor dirígalos a la comisión usando el " contact us " en las páginasen inglés .
visión – & ldquo ; activar y promover el ministerio para católicos hispanos en la diócesis de des moines & rdquo ; información sobre la posición del los obispos de iowa respecto a la reform imigratoria padre reynaldo hernández - nuestra señora de las américas , des moines padre chris reising - nuestra señora de las américas , des moines diácono troy thompson- nuestra señora de las américas , des moines la conferencia de obispos católicos de estados unidos ha lanzadoel nuevo portal webwww.portumatrimonio.org.
el portal , completamente en español , es la versión hispana del popular sitio de internet www.foryourmarriage.org , aunque no es una traducción del mismo explicó alejandro aguilera-titus , director para asuntos hispanos en el secretariado de diversidad cultural y coordinador del proyecto . & ldquo ; por tu matrimonio es un espacio para inspirar , ayudar y exhortar a las parejas de habla hispana a vivir más plenamente su relación matrimonial & rdquo ; , afirmó aguilera-titus . & ldquo ; la idea es ayudarlos a ser parejas felices , comprometidas con su vocación & rdquo ; .
lista de parroquias que ofrecen misas en español y sus horarios información adicional de parroquias que ofrecen clases de catecismo , el sacramento de la reconciliación y otros servicios pastorales en español .
su columna impresa mensual en el periódico diocesano & ldquo ; the catholic mirror & rdquo ; declaración de los obispos de iowa sobre la reforma migratoria mad money host jim cramer shares the story of how he got involved in individual stock picking .
mad money host jim cramer shares the story of how he came to love stocks , and how parents can get their kids interested too .
newseconomyfinancehealth carereal estateretailwealthautosearningsenergymediapoliticscommentaryspecial reportsasiaeuropemarketspre-marketsu.s.asiaeuropestockscommoditiescurrenciesbondsfundsetfsinvestingfinancial advisorspersonal financecnbc explainsportfoliowatchliststock screenerfund screenertechmobilesocial mediaenterprisegamingcybersecuritysmall businessfranchisingfinancingmanagementvideolatest videodigital workshopu.s. videoasia videoeurope videoceo interviewsanalyst interviewsfull episodesclosed captioningshowswatch livecnbc u.s.cnbc asia-pacificcnbc europecnbc worldfull episodescnbcabout cnbcsite mapvideo reprintsadvertisecareershelpcontactprivacy policyterms of serviceindependent programming reportlatest news releasesrsscertain market data provided by thomson reutersdata also provided bydata is a real-time snapshot * data is delayed at least 15 minutesglobal business and financial news , stock quotes , and market data and analysis © 2014 cnbc llc . all rights reserved.a division of nbcuniversalseptember 11 : an intelligence failure | cadran politic posted by ana maria ghimis on may 27th , 2012 / / comments off rdc : hrw dénonce les atrocités du m23 avec son allié rwandais c ’ est un rapport accablant pour le rwanda que l ’ ong qui défend les droits atrocités que les rebelles du m23 continuent de perpétrer à l ’ est de la république démocratique du congo ( rdc ) , apporte également de nouvelles preuves indiquant l ’ implication large de troupes rwandaises dans ce conflit aux côtés du m23 . & bdquo ; non seulement le rwanda permet au m23 de se procurer des recrues et de l ’ équipement sur son territoire , mais aussi les militaires rwandais continuent d ’ apporter un soutien direct à ce groupe qui commet des exactions « , déclare le directeur de la division afrique de hrw .
daniel bekele . & bdquo ; ce soutien renforce un groupe armé qui est responsable de nombreux meurtres , viols et autres crimes les rebelles du m23 ont exécuté sommairement au moins 44 personnes et violé au moins 61 femmes et filles depuis mars 2013 dans l ’ est de la république démocratique du congo ( rdc ) « affirme ce rapport publié ce 22 juillet .
hrw annonce avoir recueilli ces informations suite à plus de 100 entretiens réalisés depuis le mois de mars 2013 , comprenant des témoignages d ’ anciens combattants du m23 qui ont déserté ce mouvement entre fin mars et juillet ainsi que des civils vivant près de la frontière rwando-congolaise , dont nombreux sont hrw affirme que les combattants du m23 , mènent particulièrement une chasse à l ’ homme contre les populations de l ’ ethnie hutue dans les territoires qu ’ ils contrôlent . & bdquo ; les 25 et 26 avril , des combattants du m23 ont tué 15 civils d ’ ethnie hutue dans plusieurs villages du groupement de busanza dans le territoire de rutshuru , et au moins six autres à la mi-juin , apparemment pour & bdquo ; punir « les villageois pour leur prétendue collaboration avec des milices hutues le rapport fait également état de nombreux arrestations et enlèvements qui ont eu lieu au cours des dernières semaines dans le territoire de rutshuru par des combattants du m23 .
les victimes sont des dizaines de civils , la plupart d ’ ethnie hutue .
les personnes enlevées quand elles ne sont pas exécutées , sont & bdquo ; un ancien policier du m23 qui a déserté ce mouvement a rapporté à hrw qu ’ il avait participé à des enquêtes sur des meurtres de civils .
il a affirmé qu ’ avant chaque enquête , un commandant de haut rang du m23 , innocent kanyana lui disait : & bdquo ; c ’ est toi qui mènera l ’ enquête .
et tu diras que ce sont des bandits de la pendant l ’ attaque de la nuit du 25 avril , un groupe de combattants du m23 a traversé les villages de ruvumbura , kirambo , nyamagana et shinda , tuant et pillant sur leur passage .
une mère de trois enfants , âgée de 43 ans , a dit à hrw : & bdquo ; quand ils ont commencé à tuer des gens , nous avons fui dans la brousse .
mon mari est retourné chercher nos biens et ils l ’ ont tué .
ils lui ont tiré une balle dans la tête « . & bdquo ; dans la région de busanza , les combattants ont demandé de l ’ argent à une femme de 33 ans , quand elle a dit qu ’ elle n ’ en avait pas , ils ont entaillé son épaule d ’ un coup de machette et ont frappé son fils de 11 ans à d ’ autres cas d ’ exécutions sommaires par le m23 sont rapportés par hrw à l ’ instar de celui d ’ un homme de 62 ans qui a eu lieu fin mai à ntamugenga car ce dernier refusait de remettre ses fils au m23 ; l ’ assassinat le 15 mai d ’ un chauffeur de moto près de kiwanja parce qu ’ il refusait de leur donner de l ’ argent ; à la mi-juin , l ’ exécution par plusieurs balles dans la poitrine d ’ un plusieurs autres cas d ’ exécutions sommaires par le m23 , sur de nouvelles recrues qui tentaient de s ’ échapper ont également été rapportés .
le cas le plus interpellant est celui d ’ un déserteur connu sous le nom de tupac : & bdquo ; le 21 juin , les combattants du m23 ont capturé un des leurs , un congolais nommé & bdquo ; tupac « , alors qu ’ il essayait de s ’ enfuir près de kabuhanga .
ils l ’ ont ramené au camp militaire de kamahoro , où le commandant a ordonné à ses troupes de se mettre en formation et de l ’ abattre pour décourager d ’ autres désertions .
ils ont tué tupac de deux balles dans la poitrine tirées à bout portant « .
un déserteur du m23 a rapporté à hrw qu ’ il avait été forcé , avec d ’ autres recrues , d ’ enterrer tupac concernant les viols commis par le m23 , hrw affirme avoir documenté 61 cas de viol de femmes ou de filles par des combattants du m23 entre mars et début juillet , et affirme néanmoins qu ’ en raison de la marque d ’ infamie qui s ’ attache au viol et de la peur de représailles , le nombre réel des victimes est beaucoup plus élevé . & bdquo ; fréquemment , les violeurs avertissaient leurs victimes qu ’ elles seraient tuées si elles parlaient du viol ou si elles cherchaient à recevoir des & bdquo ; beaucoup des victimes de viol étaient dans leurs champs ou entrain de ramasser du bois .
les combattants du m23 ont accusé certaines d ’ entre elles d ’ être les & bdquo ; épouses « de combattants des fdlr .
la plupart des viols ont été commis à proximité des positions du m23 et certaines victimes ont reconnu leurs agresseurs comme étant des combattants du m23 qu ’ elles avaient vus auparavant « malgré le silence des victimes , le rapport de hrw mentionne plusieurs cas à l ’ instar de celui d ’ une fillette de 12 ans violée le 5 juillet par quatre combattants du m23 alors qu ’ elle cherchait de l ’ eau près de son village dans le territoire de rutshuru ; ou encore le cas d ’ un combattant du m23 qui le 15 avril 2013 près de bunagana a accosté une jeune femme de 18 ans et lui a tiré une balle dans la jambe parce qu ’ elle a refusé d ’ avoir une relation sexuelle avec des recrutements forcés au rwanda et en rdc impliquant même des jeunes selon hrw , les habitants de la région et des anciens rebelles ayant déserté ont fait état d ’ opérations récentes de recrutement forcé d ’ hommes et de garçons au rwanda et à l ’ est de la rdc pour le compte de m23 .
parmi les hommes recrutés au rwanda par le m23 , le rapport de hrw affirme que figurent de nombreux jeunes garçons majeurs mais aussi quelques mineurs .
il y des fdlr , dont la plupart avaient été intégrés dans la force de réserve de l ’ armée rwandaise , ainsi que des civils rwandais . & bdquo ; un jeune rwandais âgé de 15 ans a raconté à human rights watch que lui et trois autres jeunes hommes et garçons avaient reçu la promesse d ’ emplois en tant que gardiens de vaches en rd congo , mais qu ’ une fois arrivés dans ce pays , ils avaient été forcés de rejoindre le m23 .
ils y ont suivi une formation militaire dispensée par des officiers rwandais et on les a avertis qu ’ ils seraient abattus s ’ ils tentaient & bdquo ; de récents déserteurs du m23 interrogés par human rights watch ont décrit des arrivées fréquentes parfois hebdomadaires de militaires et de recrues en provenance du rwanda .
parfois il s ’ agissait de rotations , des hommes nouveaux en remplaçant d ’ autres qui étaient retournés au rwanda « poursuit le rapport .
hrw assure avoir documenté des dizaines de cas de recrutement de force par le m23 depuis mars , y compris d ’ enfants .
ces recrutements semblent même avoir augmenté au cours des derniers mois , depuis que le m23 a perdu plusieurs hommes ( morts et déserteurs ) , quand la faction du m23 dirigée par bosco ntaganda a subi une défaite en mars face à celle commandée par sultani makenga .
les cas de sept enfants rwandais , âgés de 15 , 16 et 17 ans , qui ont été recrutés de force au rwanda en mars et en avril , puis forcés de se battre dans les rangs du m23 , avant de parvenir à déserter ont également été recensés .
hrw affirme avoir reçu des informations concernant d ’ autres enfants recrutés au rwanda au cours de ces derniers mois et qui , eux , n ’ ont pas pu s ’ enfuir .
des recrutements forcés seraient également intenses en rdc , surtout dans les zones sous contrôle du m23 .
ainsi , & bdquo ; des commandants du m23 ont forcé des chefs coutumiers dans les zones qu ’ ils contrôlent à suivre une formation militaire et idéologique et à fournir des recrues au m23 .
le m23 considère ces chefs locaux comme constituant une & bdquo ; force de réserve « , sur laquelle ils veulent pouvoir néanmoins , tous les récents déserteurs du m23 interrogés par hrw ont déclaré qu ’ au cours des derniers mois , le gros de nouvelles recrues provient de plus en de nombreux bataillons de l ’ armes rwandaise se battent aujourd ’ hui aux côtés du m23 , et ce sont mêmes les officiers rwandais qui dirigent les opérations .
un ancien officier du m23 a indiqué à hrw que les femmes des officiers rwandais venaient souvent leur rendre visite dans les zones tenues par le m23 en rd congo , apportant des lettres de membres de leur famille restés au rwanda .
des habitants de la région et des rebelles déserteurs ont déclaré que & bdquo ; des mouvements réguliers du rwanda vers la rd congo d ’ hommes en uniforme de l ’ armée rwandaise et l ’ approvisionnement du m23 en munitions , en vivres et en autres par ailleurs , tous les déserteurs du m23 interrogés par hrw ont affirmé que la présence de militaires , d ’ officiers et de formateurs rwandais s ’ était poursuivie pendant toute la durée de leur engagement au sein du mouvement , et que de nouveaux renforts souvent déjà munis de divers équipements , notamment militaires continuaient d ’ arriver du rwanda au cours des derniers mois .
hrw mouvements d ’ hommes armés du rwanda vers l ’ est du congo pendant les jours ayant un déserteur congolais a rapporté à hrw , qu ’ au sein du m23 , les rwandais étaient favorisés . & bdquo ; on leur donne des uniformes immédiatement , des couvertures et des bottes .
ils sont gâtés .
quand ils parlent , c ’ est comme si ils étaient les patrons du mouvement .
ils me traitaient de vaut rien et disaient : & bdquo ; tu n ’ as aucune valeur dans ton pays « ils m ’ insultaient avec des mots qu ’ on ne peut prononcer trop fort .
ils disaient & bdquo ; vous les congolais , vous avez peut être fait des études mais vous n ’ avez jamais combattu au front . « « selon hrw , trois anciens officiers du m23 , proches de la hiérarchie du mouvement ont rapporté que les plus hauts commandants militaires du m23 supérieurs de l ’ armée rwandaise .
parfois , des officiers rwandais venaient à tshanzu ou à rumangabo pour rencontrer les chefs du m23 , parfois ce sont les dirigeants du m23 qui se rendaient au rwanda pour des réunions .
les informations circulant ces derniers jours nous apprennent même que plusieurs officiers rwandais auraient été tués d ’ autres blessés dans les combats de ces derniers jours , le général rwandais ibingira compterait parmi les blessés & bdquo ; au cours des 17 dernières années , l ’ armée rwandaise a à maintes reprises envoyé des troupes dans l ’ est de la rd congo et soutenu des forces agissant pour son compte et qui se sont rendues responsables d ’ exactions et de crimes de guerre « , a souligné daniel bekele directeur de la division afrique à hrw . & bdquo ; comme dans le passé , le rwanda nie qu ’ il soutient le m23 , mais les faits sur le terrain contredisent ces démentis . « poursuit-il .
par ailleurs , hrw affirme que , toutes les demandes d ’ entretien adressées à des responsables gouvernementaux et accusé depuis le début des hostilités à l ’ est du congo de ne pas avoir condamné ouvertement le rwanda , les états-unis ont adopté ce mardi le 23 juillet , un ton très sévère à l ’ encontre de kigali , le sommant de retirer ses troupes de la rdc et de cesser son soutien aux rebelles du m23 .
cet appel qui intervient au lendemain de la publication du rapport de hrw épinglant le rwanda pour son implication dans la crise congolaise à côté du m23 , est une première pour les etats-unis .
en effet washington s ’ était , jusque-là , contenté d ’ appeler tous les pays soutenant le m23 à cesser leur appui , sans mentionner les pays en question . & bdquo ; nous appelons le rwanda à cesser immédiatement tout soutien au mouvement du m23 , à retirer son personnel militaire de l ’ est de la rdc et à respecter ses engagements « , a déclaré ce mardi à la presse la porte-parole du département jennifer psaki a affirmé qu ’ il y avait un & bdquo ; ensemble de preuves crédibles « reliant les principaux dirigeants rwandais aux rebelles du m23 qui sèment le pour rappel , dans un rapport de l ’ onu le ministre rwandais de la défense , james kabarebe , est cité comme étant le véritable chef du m23 .
billngs car accident at 9th street west and broadwater aveby montana news billings armed robbery at the cenex zip trop gas station on 2975 grand aveby montana news a battle cry : " from my cold , dead , hands " by j.d. longstreet it must be difficult for peeta ( josh hutcherson ) , who in the first film seemed to be nothing more than a supporting character .
but i must admit that peeta has found his own voice in catching fire .
he is not a confused kid anymore , but has figured out what his strengths are , and he seems to be the one who keeps katniss focused in the game .
hutcherson is definitely playing up to lawrence and the two of them make an excellent tribute couple , with lots of problems to work out. wants to paralyse the country to force the government to amend the electoral work so far has not been directly affected .
we still have a lot of problems , our " work " i.e. , that of all those who are in the thick of things every day - lay we do , i can never forget the first one we did : the tong khyang para hostel .
i have want to learn and work , not only for their own future , but also for that of 16 hours , between strikes , in order to bring me a bag full of papayas and grade and now are trying to get into universities .
can you imagine that ?
university ! child , who had been abandoned by her husband and rejected by her own family .
visiting them was exhausting because of the heavy traffic on the hot road .
dino pay back a debt of € 800 that he took out to buy rice for his ramshackle hostel , ended up in jail , where he got beat up .
i ended up having to get him out . . . of tenderness in rajshahi and are now able to earn a living and live usually alone .
i nicknamed her ' earthquake ' because she is restlessness , but is not go to certain meetings .
i did get though some feedback on a book of my mine that was recently published ( il vangelo del dialogo or the milan , and romano di lombardia , as well as the local weariness due to the economic crisis , and the distrust in politics .
i noticed the francis factor as it swept up everyone as an unexpected breath of hope !
and now i am back , up and the mystery of christmas is all about ?
becoming a man of god , quiet , humble , someone who comes with tenderness among the shepherds , someone who refuses to be trapped in the logic of power and the search for magical solutions to our problems .
the difficulty of living is also his , and his welcoming it gives us civilian in the latest in a string of incidents involving the army , a spokesman soldiers approached the entrance of the camp in ngagara , " in the capital bujumbura .
" one of them pounced on the sentinel , yanked his rifle away and shot a week ago and accused of attempting to destabilise the country 's institutions on nbc ’ s “ meet the press ” on sunday , kirkpatrick reiterated that what happened in benghazi was " an armed terrorist attack motivated in large part by the video . "
" this was not a street protest .
and it was not a copycat of what happened in cairo , " kirkpatrick said , referring to the demonstration the same day in the egyptian capital in response to the youtube video .
" that was unarmed street protest .
this is a group of armed men who , inspired by the video , deliberately attacked the compound . "
situated just a few metres from the sea and at the foot of the 144-metre-high , five-million-year old magnificently preserved messinian fossilised coral reef cliffs of santa pola , & # 8230 ; la ruta del vino is a gentle stroll through the ‘ vineyards ' of la mata ; open fields full of grapes on the shores of the salt lake .
the & # 8230 ; if you cannot remember the email account you joined with , you will have to contact us or sign up again .
welcome ! welcome to the website for the diocese of duluth .
we hope you will visit often to stay abreast of the news and information for the catholic church in northeastern minnesota .
eccb celebrates 30 years of monetary and financial stability in the eccu 8 .
carve out time every day to feed a passion .
prices slashed on two downtown office buildings mon dec 30 , 2013 5 : 20 pm est cocopotamus cranks up production to fill a sweet order mon dec 30 , 2013 5 : 20 pm est nms population growth slowest in region mon dec 30 , 2013 1 : 20 pm est tasmanian devils draw big crowd at unveiling mon dec 30 , 2013 7 : 20 pm est man charged in string of fast-food robberies mon dec 30 , 2013 7 : 20 pm est nmsp to stress dwi enforcement on new year ’ s eve mon dec 30 , 2013 3 : 20 pm est mother accused of killing son has sordid past mon dec 30 , 2013 9 : 20 pm est free safe ride services available on new year ’ s eve mon dec 30 , 2013 11 : 20 am est nm lawmaker aims to confront truancy problem mon dec 30 , 2013 11 : 20 am est carlsbad teen to perform in london parade sun dec 29 , 2013 05 : 20 am est ’ bat brigade ’ readies for trip to santa fe sat dec 28 , 2013 03 : 20 am est mcgee : health care used to be a lot simpler sat dec 28 , 2013 01 : 20 am est theres not just one way to pick pet names sat dec 28 , 2013 01 : 20 am est column : a funny valentine can be serious sat dec 28 , 2013 1 : 20 pm est say it ain ’ t so : gus macker 3-on-3 tournament not returning to las cruces in 2014 mon dec 30 , 2013 9 : 20 pm est authorities keep an eye on drunken drivers , other safety concerns , for new year ’ s mon dec 30 , 2013 9 : 20 pm est hyundai sun bowl in el paso : what you need to know mon dec 30 , 2013 5 : 20 pm est can you succeed at your new year ’ s resolutions ?
sun dec 29 , 2013 9 : 20 pm est report : new mexico has a ’ brain gain ’ sun dec 29 , 2013 9 : 20 pm est county clerk says she ’ has no problem ’ complying with marriage ruling mon dec 30 , 2013 5 : 20 pm est hospital tax to continue as usual mon dec 30 , 2013 5 : 20 pm est tucumcari man arrested in arkansas after nationwide manhunt mon dec 23 , 2013 5 : 20 pm est despite the new policy by the central government , easing the one-child in november , the plenum of the communist party announced reforms in family kawul , the husband of one of the women forced to abort , " my the baby and took him to a nearby hospital in a bid to save him. they feel like … we see them for who they to costly promotions .
we have no hidden costs .
all exporters ads are owned by to access markets .
this is one way that minimizes salesreps & costly source for our customers .
it is important you convey to readers your url or accounts at will .
we do have e-commerce but we feel will hold the bil bil of lading until complete monies are paid for shipping & or articles .
we assist and promote one of the best law offices in chiangmai : www.chiangmailaw.com so please if you have a problem contact sumalee jennapa llb & our general law office if you want to link to any of our sites all we ask in return is that you link guarantee if you do not get a minimum of 6 prospective customers we they occur .
when asking us for a quotation it is important to tell us your port of entry in your country and fill address details .
we will quote you up to date full prices and we do have r o r services to the uk but these must be booked prior .
payment is by tt to our company account .
we receive inquiries for various items to be made eg. plastic boxes , metal parts etc .
in these cases we pass this service on to other companies we know .
you can then decide whether to use them or not at your own dicretion .
please note we do not take responsibility for any dicrepancies you may have with these companies but can act as meditator in the event you do have a problem .
we always send out a proforma invoice which will tell you all the shipping and transactions costs .
these invoices if air freight we do reserve the right to add the costs of changed air freight per kg rates as and when they change .
as some of our exports may take 1-2 months to make and pack please note this change .
publishing / export-trade businesses and we can furnish references of exporters and reputable shipping qu : shipping & packing services : we have our own shipping now .
our depot for packing and fumigation is in soi 62 sukhumvit .
all quotes are workdwide for lcl to containers .
we also clear customs for impoters and handle all logistics around thailand .
for all garment exports our packing is at pratunam only for garments .
our turn arounds are quick and we can airfreight within 2 days of your goods coming to our depot .
we handle everything from cars , bike to cothing and personal and we also can get customs clearance on anything including buddhas and art works .
qu : shipping from pattaya or hua hin : we have our own trucks and have our own depot in pattaya as at august 2008 .
please click on the banner : first hotel on petchaburi rd bewteen soi 11 and soi 13 http : / / www.firsthotelbangkok.com / @ 1500 baht -2000baht a night .
we work for xtremestreet wear in brisbane australia & are buyers for this australian company .
see the success they have made on the australian garment market and check one of their many vans below [ xtremestreetwear ] these are our biggest garment customers and we can be your agent as well .
it costs you nothing but we qc and run everything for you in thailand without you being here .
we can offer you more than you think with all our in house services. website may be copied , printed or circulated for publication in any form or part of without business , newsletters are not be published , reproduced & used in any shape or form , in any publication belongs to the respective company / business we market for and we are not responsible for misleading information given to us by these but !
for laughs , krugman slapped the title " bitcoin is evil " on his post .
though he never actually argued that bitcoin is evil , that was enough to uncork the wrath of the bitcoin army , which bombarded krugman with what he called " rage-filled missives . "
some opposition mps cautioned that there is a risk that the president may end up appointing representatives who are followers of the ruling party .
tundu lissu , ( singida east-chadema ) , went so far as to declare that the ruling party had & ldquo ; abducted " the constitutional review process .
ccm was marginalising tanzanians to suit its own interests , the chadema disciplinarian intoned .
" when we say involving zanzibaris in the process , we are advocating a 50-50 representation at all stages , " lissu told the lawmakers .
" it is not a question of geographical size , but the principle of sovereignty , " he further stated .
the process of writing a new constitution has to be owned by the citizens , but now the ruling party is commanding the show , " he affirmed .
an 8-month old girl in a stroller was killed when a bus driver talking on a cell phone jumped the curb and toppled a light pole in a new jersey suburb last july .
seven bystanders were injured in the accident .
but it was only one piece in a broad effort to combat distractions on the road .
the agency has incorporated lessons on distracted driving in its regular training process .
it has also required bus drivers to turn off their phones and stow them before getting on the road .
if bus drivers need to make a call as part of their job , they must get off the bus and make the call outside .
“ you can look at the passengers being a distraction , but you can also look at them as their own enforcers , ” keppler said .
“ they ’ re watching the driver . ”
u.s. immigration to israel drops 13 percentjewish telegraphic agencyrussian immigration to israel seen as success storyjewish daily forwardin depth : why hillel is failing in the fight for israel on campushuffington postsee all 75 sourcesrelated jewish people six years ago , when najib * was 15 , taliban fighters came to his home in shinwar district * in the eastern province of nangarhar telling him to join them .
after repeated visits , his family sought a way for najib to escape , and paid a smuggler to take him to the uk .
jello biafra has had an unmistakable and enduring impact internationally , both on punk and the counterculture .
the iconoclast grew up in boulder and moved to san francisco in the late ' 70s , where he formed the dead kennedys and established the & # 8230 ; opposite grace hotel , has a band plays at 11pm ? ? ? miles late and the drinks are too expensive .
200 baht for a bacardi breeze ( 53baht in the 7 / 11 ) ; 100 baht for a diet coke and 75n baht for a can of coke .
totally outrageous for a pub but then many bars and pubs are charging outrageous prices for entertainment and thats what bangkok is all about ? ?
not recommended by us apart from pool and the band & a few girls to chat too .
theres definitely better places to go and see but the choice is yours .
they do have pizzas and donar kababs and good value ..
[ pattaya useful tel numbers ] [ pattaya digital film ] [ pattaya buffet dinners ] [ pattaya tesco , big c ] [ pattaya beach ] [ pattaya tourist handy tips ] [ pattaya beach road ] [ pattaya best restaurants ] [ pattaya bars ] [ pattaya jet ski hire ] [ pattaya hire cars / bikes ] [ pattaya car / motorcycle reg office ] [ buying cars in thailand ] [ buying motorcycles in thailand ] [ pattaya bike week 2009 ] [ bang saen bike week 2008 ] [ fishing news ] [ check out bang saen ] [ more bang saen pics ] all the info you need to know about coming to the phillipines of privacy and our company will act accordingly .
see faqs bishop 3 .
in the middle of the section to the right , enter http : / / www.kob.com on 4 dec 2013 , the former mayor of the kyrgyz capital , isa omurkulov , “ voluntarily resigned ” from his post ; his counterpart in osh was dismissed from post the very next day .
the two events stirred a lot of emotions in the two largest kyrgyz cities .
elections for the vacant positions are scheduled for january 2014 .
the issue of just who will preside in the osh city hall is not only a pressing one for osh resident , but it is also a sensitive one for the central authorities in this mountainous country .
obviously , bishkek wants to have “ a reliable handyman ” in osh , not a rebel — an unconditionally complying official , in short .
however , one could perhaps be sure that opposition-minded melisbek myrzakmatov will recapture his former chair and will be a new , yet old head of the city .
he maintained that , taboa was not against the government plan but advised : & ldquo ; more has to be done in involving various stakeholders at its early stage . & rdquo ; enterprise feedback managementsurvey softwarenlr cyclist is searching for his heros - fox16.com terms of use bonollo reflects on first year of backpackers | the valley breeze the pawtucket backpackers was designed to help the children and families in our district .
the current economic impact on students and families was a great impetus to the wellness committee , and we chose to pilot the backpackers program as a solution . © 2013 breeze publications , inc .
all rights reserved . | top of pageburundi réalités le siège de l 'onu ( new york ) , qui veut déployer son personnel non essentiel les combats se poursuivaient dimanche au soudan du sud , où l ’ onu a promis d ’ envoyer des renforts militaires pour remplir son mandat de protection des les nations unies indiquent qu ’ elles prévoyaient de redéployer leur personnel dont la présence au soudan du sud n ’ est pas nécessaire .
le gouvernement sud-soudanais annonce avoir envoyé des soldats à bor , ville où se trouvent d ’ importants sites pétroliers .
objectif : tenter de la reprendre aux rebelles alliés de riek machar , le rival de salva kiir , le président du l ’ armée sud-soudanaise a repéré riek machar à bor .
il aurait pris la fuite à bord d ’ une embarcation , selon le ministre des affaires étrangères du soudan du les combats entre l ’ armée sud-soudanaise et les hommes de machar ont fait au moins 500 morts depuis mercredi .
un bilan concernant la seule ville de juba , la des dizaines de milliers de déplacés fuyant les combats ont été dénombrés .
le royaume-uni , le kenya , les etats-unis d ’ amérique , le liban et l ’ ouganda quatre soldats américains ont été blessés samedi .
ils ont été touchés par des tirs , lorsque leur avion a tenté , sans succès , d ’ atterrir pour évacuer des le président du soudan du sud a suspendu de leurs fonctions tous les dans un décret rendu public à la radiotélévision nationale , salva kiir a limogé même son vice – président , riek machar et pagan amum , le secrétaire aucune raison claire n 'a été donnée pour justifier la suspension de l ’ exécutif , mais les analystes évoquent la lutte de pouvoir entre salva kiir et selon les observateurs , le président salva kiir se bat pour garder le contrôle du mouvement de libération du peuple du soudan ( splm ) , l ’ ancienne m. machar , qui avait été dépouillé de certains de ses pouvoirs en avril dernier , avait laissé entendre qu 'il pourrait se présenter contre m. kiir pour prendre la direction du splm avant la prochaine élection présidentielle en 2015 .
des dizaines de généraux ont également été démis de leurs fonctions .
le mois dernier , le président kiir avait suspendu deux de ses principaux ministres soupçonnés d 'être impliqués dans un vaste scandale de corruption .
le sud-soudan fait face à des problèmes économiques chroniques depuis son la dissolution de l ’ exécutif s ’ inscrit dans une large tentative par le président de restructurer non seulement le gouvernement , mais le pouvoir et kejriwal said he requested cag shashi kant sharma to do the audit in three months but sharma said it depends on the " cooperation " of power distribution companies .
arvind kejriwal .
the aap-led delhi government wednesday fulfilled yet another poll ...
bjp leader and mla dr harsh vardhan questioned the move saying the tax payer and not private companies will end up paying for the largess .
dr vardhan 's senior colleague and leader of the opposition in the rajya sabha , arun jaitley also questioned the ...
new delhi : buoyed by its success in the recently concluded delhi assembly polls , the aam aadmi party is gearing to take the plunge at the national level and is asking people for donations to fight the 2014 general elections .
the new party party on the block ...
" kejriwal 's aap is a passing trend .
its message was to reach out to common people .
but it will not and cannot , in any way , hinder or halt modi 's march to delhi as there is modi wave in country , " former punjab minister manoranjan kalia said .
new york timessee realtime coveragethe death of a family , and an american dreamnew york timesdec 30 , 2013written byvivian yeehis younger daughter was the last to go into the ground .
before her had gone her sister , her younger brother and the baby , william.see all 5 sourcesrelated : immigration pa ’ u edwin puni and scopa nz president samoa sooalo setu mua with unasa fala anamani , mulipola sina anamani , avalisa viali-fautualii and rudy bartley from samoa .
the samoa collge 60th anniversary weekend in auckland was an opportunity to pay tribute to ... ( 12 / 23 / 2013 5 : 38 : 13 pm ) tccia urges local businesspersons to seek investment opportunities in india na malela kassim tccia executive director daniel machemba issued sounded the advice at a seminar held at the weekend in dar es salaam .
new regulation could put many nail salons out of business , lawmaker says hogs and cowboys try to heal up during bye weeks , basketball hogs prepare for the maui invitational , and a touchdown that counts for way more than just six points on the scoreboard a year to remember and a year to forget for brazil blues linked with belgium star , but who is michy batshuayi ?
homehomehot topics ( 1 new ) current affairsworld newsbusiness & # 38 ; financeindustry sectorstechnologysciencesportlifestyleentertainment & # 38 ; artsworld newsworld newseuropenorth americalatin americacaribbeanasiaafricamiddle eastsouth pacificlatin americalatin americasouth americacentral americasouth americasouth americaargentinaboliviabrazilchilecolombiaecuadorfalkland islandsperuuruguayvenezuelabrazileconomypoliticssport glenn greenwald : the nsa can " literally watch every keystroke you make " democracy now ! 15 : 39 30-dec-13 © 2013 indexmundi - all rights reservedaggies cruise to fourth straight win | kob.com aap , arvind kejriwal deliver on delhi power tariff promiselivemintdelhi government may go for audit of power firms , arvind kejriwal meets cagindian expresssee all 2,405 sourcesrelated delhi parrikar praises fellow iitian arvind kejriwalzee newsgoa chief minister manohar parrikar praises fellow iitian arvind kejriwaldaily news & analysissee all 40 sourcesrelated goa manoj kumar to meet arvind kejriwal to get justice ! times of indiaall troop in to delhi cm arvind kejriwal 's residencefinancial expresssee all 52 sourcesrelated delhi itself noted in a press release , s & p and fitch gave the idb an aaa top storiesnews near youworldu.s.businesstechnologyentertainmentsportssciencehealthspotlighttop storiesnews near youworldu.s.businesstechnologyentertainmentsportssciencehealthspotlightarchosapple insidersee realtime coveragearchos to launch a line of " pebble-like " smartwatches for ios and android ... techcrunch16 hours agowritten bydarrell etheringtonarchos just dropped a huge smattering of ces news in advance of the huge annual tech show , which kicks off next week in las vegas.archos to show sub- $ 100 smartwatches at cespcworld - by agam shaharchos reveals connected home , wearable gadgets ahead of cespc magazine - by stephanie mlotsee all 49 sourcesrelated : international ces topics : continuing resolution | consumer price index | deflation | debt ceiling | fiscal cliff | federal funds rate | hyperinflation | inflation | the laffer curve | market correction | medicare and medicaid | producer price index | recession | sequestration | stagflation | social security | unemployment | topics : the imf | brics | gross domestic product | piigs | efsf | sovereign debt | vatican finances | revised gdp rules topics : under water mortgages | case-shiller home price index | reo | housing starts | jumbo mortage | tax deductions topics : u.s. income tax basics | tax deductions | the alternative minimum tax cloud computing means being able to access the internet anywhere , anytime and being able to use any and all of the data and applications you want .
an entrepreneurial revolution is spreading in all corners of the globe .
innovators are driving a transformation .
newseconomyfinancehealth carereal estateretailwealthautosearningsenergymediapoliticscommentaryspecial reportsasiaeuropemarketspre-marketsu.s.asiaeuropestockscommoditiescurrenciesbondsfundsetfsinvestingfinancial advisorspersonal financecnbc explainsportfoliowatchliststock screenerfund screenertechmobilesocial mediaenterprisegamingcybersecuritysmall businessfranchisingfinancingmanagementvideolatest videodigital workshopu.s. videoasia videoeurope videoceo interviewsanalyst interviewsfull episodesclosed captioningshowswatch livecnbc u.s.cnbc asia-pacificcnbc europecnbc worldfull episodescnbcabout cnbcsite mapvideo reprintsadvertisecareershelpcontactprivacy policyterms of serviceindependent programming reportlatest news releasesrsscertain market data provided by thomson reutersdata also provided bydata is a real-time snapshot * data is delayed at least 15 minutesglobal business and financial news , stock quotes , and market data and analysis © 2014 cnbc llc . all rights reserved.a division of nbcuniversalredacția | cadran politic editată de centrul român pentru educaţie şi dezvoltare durabilă , bucureşti .
reproducerea integrală sau parţială a materialelor este permisă numai cu citarea sursei .
the montana supreme court has denied a petition for post-conviction relief filed by a billings man who argued that a district court judge misinterpreted the state ’ s arson law and that he had ineffective attorneys .
see the faqs for more info and help , or contact us . living | the valley breeze as jesus passed by , he saw a man named matthew sitting at the customs post .
he said to him , " follow me . "
and he got up and followed him .
a new tax slapped on copper blisters by finance minister alexander chikwana has raised an outcry in the industry . ( ... )
the hydroelectric potential of the luapula river promises to meet the power needs of mining companies in katanga and the copperbelt . ( ... )
the job won ’ t be unfamiliar tokishore kumar , chief executive officer of konkola ( ... )
most recently submittedcouncil backs off on edc proposal on the bee texpool , which is an investment account , was also discussed and an option for edc to dip into if needed .
calgary web design by media dog productionssubscribe to the bee on the bee a wilpshire man is jetting off to africa in the new year to spend three months helping to improve communities . ( 12 / 27 / 2013 1 : 49 : 24 pm ) how us can join el salvador in combating international gangs homehomehot topics ( 1 new ) current affairsworld newsbusiness & # 38 ; financeindustry sectorstechnologysciencesportlifestyleentertainment & # 38 ; artsworld newsworld newseuropenorth americalatin americacaribbeanasiaafricamiddle eastsouth pacificlatin americalatin americasouth americacentral americacentral americacentral americacosta ricael salvadorguatemalahondurasnicaraguapanamael salvadorsport how us can join el salvador in combating international gangschristian science monitor 16 : 19 20-dec-13 tanzanite miners at work in mererani in the northen part of tanzania. to assess the value for money for uk aid of funding through multilateral aid programme in fewer countries so we can target our support where it at the february 2008 montreux retreat and to the iasc working group in in tajikistan as well as contributing to the organization 's effectiveness agency of the government and donors .
undp has contributed to policy development and dialogue , and played a key role in incorporating the mdgs and pro-poor and earthquakes , and hundreds of avalanches and debris flows .
in july 1999 , a better deal for kids in the budget ?
democrats and republicans ... © 2013 indexmundi - all rights reservedobituaries - december 25 , 2013 on the bee choose one of the articles from the archived list below . the most recent appear at the top of the list .
reflect on the nativity and remember the true meaning of christmas is in giving bishop celebrates mass in our lady of the magnificat church , kinnelon ‘ rebuilt ’ co-author details ways parishes can refocus on mission to evangelize el salvador mission trip deepens boonton parishioner ’ s commitment to poor bishop installs father philip lebeau as pastor of pequannock parish new priests express joy to be able to serve god ’ s people diocesan employees tour passaic women ’ s center as opening day nears passaic parish observes polish tradition of meditations on christ ’ s passion two diocesan seminarians among 62 instituted as acolytes in rome who will be the next pope ?
god only knows says diocesan archivist say ' yes ' to the lord and give to those in need diocesan consultant for respect life to be featured on ewtn young men discerning vocations urged to listen to god 's voice in prayer diocesan seminarian was evangelizing in outreaches to youth in his native cuba many who knew archbishop sheen thrilled as he moves closer to sainthood seminarian is meeting challenge of learning new language and culture parishes in stockholm and oak ridge link as do parishes in lincoln park , pequannock bishop to ordain four men to priesthood saturday in clifton florham park parishioners deepen faith through centering prayer , lectio divina bishop to ordain 13 seminarians to diaconate on may 4 bishop serratelli dedicates altar in rockaway parish rectory 's new chapel scientific , scriptural evidence points to authenticity of image of jesus on shroud of turin salesian cooperators of don bosco hold annual day of prayer lifelong parishioner of passaic 's holy trinity is now a centenarian stirling student 's poem is reminder of the sanctity of life bishop serratelli presides at first religious profession of vocationist sister franciscan friars of the renewal set out to evangelize in streets of paterson classes teach rockaway parishioners about changes in english translation of new missal first communicants meet with bishop , take part in eucharistic catechesis and benediction bishop to ordain nine men to priesthood may 28 in clifton faithful awed by peaceful presence of la pieta at randolph parish bishop to ordain five seminarians to the order of deacon may 20 in morristown sister eucharia maria lifrieri professes perpetual vows as a hermit diocese to honor pope john paul ii at mass of thanksgiving for his beatification on may 1 bishop serratelli installs msgr. christopher dilella as pastor of our lady of the valley parish exploring the many facets of the theology of st. paul beatification of john paul ii set for may 1 , divine mercy sunday relics of saint who was a ' shining example of life ' to visit parishes in rockaway new principals named for several schools in the paterson diocese planting the seeds for the beginning of a new school year in the new year , bring a new beginning to those in need bishop serratelli ordains amadito ' junior ' flores to the order of deacon at morris catholic , students learn to be the key to building peace in the world mass of thanksgiving for canonization of st. jeanne jugan held in year for priests , florham park faithful pray for priests - one day at a time from the hen house to the house of the lord faithful invited to give ' housewarming ' gifts to diocesan seminarians at domus bartimaeus bishop appoints randolph parishioner as chair of the diocesan commission for evangelization and catechesis in the facebook age , god calls us to engage in face-to-face interaction deadline nears for parish nominations for diocesan vivere christus medal bishop to ordain five diocesan seminarians to diaconate april 30 clifton parishioner learns to be ' present ' to el salvador 's poor bishop presides at temporary profession of vows for sister of the sorrowful mother ogdensburg parish prepares to evangelize by focusing on inner spirituality though lectio divina priest , parishioners act quickly to douse fire in hawthorne church bishop serratelli to ordain three diocesan seminarians to the diaconate at national shrine in washington march 29 pope grants special indulgence to mark sesquicentennial of lourdes apparitions long path to priesthood nears end with ordination to diaconate ' some day your cousin is going to be a saint ' parishioners who donate bibles give hope to those in need sisters by birth are now soon to be sisters in the catholic faith dpd dedicates new group home in honor of dr. lawrence f. barnet for murry conway , call to priesthood began at an early age widower longs to bring word of god to people as priest in the spirit of ecumenism , little falls parishioners host seder for the ' net , ' gifts of the holy spirit are fashionable notre dame parishoner is strident advocate for rights of the disabled plan de réponse stratégique pour la république démocratique du congo 2014 nord-kivu : les réfugiés rwandais recensés à lubero et à walikale renforcer la protection de la population civile et améliorer l ’ accès aux vivres , aux biens et services de base dans les zones affectées par les violences et les conflits armés contribuer à réduire la morbidité et la mortalité dues à la malnutrition aigüe dans les zones en crise nutritionnelle contribuer à réduire la morbidité et la mortalité excessives au sein des populations touchées par les épidémies democratic republic of the congo + 1 other nord-kivu : les réfugiés rwandais recensés à lubero et à walikale la commission nationale des réfugiés ( cnr ) a débuté jeudi 26 décembre le recensement des réfugiés rwandais dans les territoires de lubero et walikale .
le chef d ’ antenne provincial de la cnr , laingulia njewa a expliqué que le but de cette campagne est d ’ organiser le rapatriement de ceux qui le souhaiteront .
des bureaux sont ouverts à des endroits précis à travers les deux territoires pour cette opération d ’ indentification , d ’ enregistrement et de collecte d ’ intentions de retour des réfugiés rwandais , a indiqué le chef d ’ antenne provincial de cette commission .
224 refugiés rwandais , installés au togo depuis plusieurs années , viennent de perdre leur statut .
une décision prise par le hcr ( haut commissariat aux réfugiés ) en raison de l ’ évolution positive des conditions de sécurité dans leur pays d ’ origine .
mais pas de panique .
le ministre togolais de la sécurité , yark damehane , a précisé jeudi que trois options se présentaient désormais : le rapatriement volontaire , l ’ obtention de la nationalité togolaise ou la délivrance d ’ une carte de séjour .
democratic republic of the congo + 1 other rdc : défection de 11 000 combattants depuis le début des opérations contre les groupes armés environ 11 000 membres de groupes armés ont fait défection depuis le début des opérations menées contre eux par l ’ armée et les forces de la monusco , a indiqué mercredi 18 décembre le chef de la monusco , martin kobler .
intervenant par vidéoconférence , depuis goma dans le nord-kivu , à la conférence hebdomadaire de la monusco à kinshasa , le représentant spécial du secrétaire général des nations unies en rdc a affirmé être en contact avec le gouvernement congolais afin de développer un système de désarmement , démobilisation et de réintégration ( ddr ) de ces démobilisés .
world + 4 others l & # 039 ; assemblée demande aux négociateurs du programme de développement pour l & # 039 ; après-2015 de reconnaître l & # 039 ; importance de renforcer la résilience face aux catastrophes l ’ assemblée générale a adopté , ce matin sans vote , une série de résolutions relatives à la coordination de l ’ aide humanitaire et a demandé aux négociateurs du programme de développement pour l ’ après-2015 d ’ accorder l ’ importance qu ’ il mérite au renforcement de la résilience des pays et des communautés face aux catastrophes naturelles .
rwanda aide aux survivants du génocide de 1994 au rwanda , en particulier aux orphelins , aux veuves et aux victimes de violences sexuelles - rapport du secrétaire général ( a / 68 / 497 ) world + 2 others assemblée : plaidoyer pour que la résilience des pays et des communautés soit au cœur des efforts contre les catastrophes naturelles les catastrophes naturelles comptent parmi les principaux obstacles au développement , a prévenu aujourd ’ hui le représentant du pakistan qui , avec d ’ autres , a souligné l ’ importance d ’ accorder une attention prioritaire à la résilience des pays et des communautés .
democratic republic of the congo + 1 other rdc : priorité à la traque des rebelles rwandais ( onu ) kinshasa , 12 décembre 2013 ( afp ) - la traque des rebelles rwandais des forces démocratiques de libération du rwanda ( fdlr ) dans l 'est de la république démocratique du congo ( rdc ) est la priorité numéro un des casques bleus dans ce pays , a indiqué jeudi l 'onu .
" la priorité numéro un de la monusco [ mission de l 'onu pour la stabilisation de la rdc , ndlr ] est désormais les fdlr " , a indiqué le représentant spécial du secrétaire général des nations unies en rdc , martin kobler , sur son compte twitter .
agence france-presse : © afp : the information provided in this product is for personal use only .
none of it may be reproduced in any form whatsoever without the express permission of agence france-presse .
the new registrar for political parties , judge francis mtungi has said that his office is set to launch a countrywide campaign to educate the public and political parties on the importance of democracy for national development .
he said his office plans to offer civil education to political parties and the public to respect the rule of law so as to uphold democracy in the country . & ldquo ; the public ought to observe the rule of law , & rdquo ; he said , noting that the his office has so far recognised the need to undertake seminars and trainings frequently to enlighten the public on the importance of promoting democracy in the society. ippmedia.com © 1998-2013 .
all rights reserved radio | agencia venezolana de noticias maduro : 2013 fue un año complejo para venezuela y para nuestra región arreaza : ojalá que alcaldes de oposición no permitan que se dañe el diálogo franco atletas venezolanos lograron en 2013 más de 36 medallas mundiales misión bario nuevo , barrio tricolor por el buen vivir de las comunidades presidente maduro espera que surja una oposición que reconozca a la revolución antonio díaz : el 2014 será un año de grandes retos william amundaraín : nuestra constitución ilustrada es un texto para el combate político y la construcción servicios contáctenos irin | africa | west africa | nigeria food and nutrition crisis in niger and the western sahelnigeria there are some new rates for use of the garrison city auditorium .
meeting the demand for housing can be a juggling act at best .
what does the customer want – or need ? 1.photo : ole gunnar solskjaer and vincent tan at the emirates today the annual catholic youth coalition kickball tournament , held in stevensville on may 12.venezuela says inflation was 4.8 pct in nov , 2.2 pct in dec privacy policyterms of useabout uscontact usemploymentlinksventure marketing © 2013 bhg , inc . all rights reserved . jump to content a simple tutorial on how to use simulink to solve a system of differential equations if you want to follow my future photographic events you can find me at : this trip was a constant test for me , as we had such short and limited time in nearly all of the spots we visited .
in most cases , i 'd have to hurry out of the van with all of my gear and find a decent composition in a very short amount of time as soon as we would arrive at the location .
it was a constant race against the light .
the text used for the narration of “ passing through ” is part of a speech serbian scientist and inventor “ passing through ” is made at kolding school of design in connection to the danish ipower-project .
" like a wave in the physical world , in the infinite ocean of the medium which pervades all , so in the world of organisms , in life , an impulse started proceeds onward , at times , may be , with the speed of light , at times , again , so slowly that for ages and ages it seems to stay , passing through processes of a complexity inconceivable to men , but in all its forms , in all its stages , its energy ever and ever integrally present . a single ray of light from a distant star falling upon the eye of a tyrant in bygone times may have altered the course of his life , may have changed the destiny of nations , may have transformed the surface of the globe , so intricate , so inconceivably complex are the processes in nature .
in no way can we get such an overwhelming idea of the grandeur of nature than when we consider , that in accordance with the law of the conservation of energy , throughout the infinite , the forces are in a perfect balance , and hence the energy of a single thought may determine the motion of a universe . ” > digital dining announces revolutionary go mobile app - now available on the app store on itunes what to do when a stranger knocks on the doorby montana news how to keep from being a target for an assaultby montana news pemain dari brazil dan burkina faso antara yang ikat kontrak dengan skuad seladang ipoh , 5 dis ( bernama ) -- tiga pemain import dari brazil , burkina faso danmyanmar adalah antara tiga pemain import yang sudah mengikat kontrak untukbermain dengan perak musim depan.mereka ialah kyaw zayar win dari myanmar yang dijangka diletak di bahagianmidfield , wendwoga didier martin ( burkina faso ) di bahagian pertahanan dananderson rodrigues cardosa ( brazil ) selaku penyerang.pengurus skuad ... ( 12 / 4 / 2013 9 : 24 : 35 pm ) i wish to thank all who attended any of the meetings or listening sessions or contributed in any way to the development of this plan . at the same time , i wish to invite all to be a part of its successful implementation !
goal # 1 : to promote the full , conscious , and active participation of all god 's people in the transforming and redeeming work of christ in the liturgical and sacramental life of the church . the diocese will : focus the fall , 2013 institute on the new evangelization and bring in a recognized teacher to speak on the new evangelization .
encourage the parishes to focus on evangelization . it is important to remember that an important part of evangelization is a warm and welcoming , worshipping community .
parishes are encouraged to " reach out " to the inactive members .
parishes are encouraged to strengthen parish rcia programs ; a proven means of inviting , welcoming , and catechizing new and lax members .
have " days of invitation " where parishioners will go out and " invite " people in person to join us for a welcome back dinner and question & answer night .
bring in organizations already established like " catholics come home " or the work of the paulist fathers .
add personal testimonies / witness to the end of the tv mass update and modernize the tv mass , word of god , how we hear it and then transmit to others audio package of " how to " ( i.e. how and why of mass , how do you go to confession etc . )
radio & tv spots the psalmist asks : " how can i repay the lord for all the great good done for me ?
ps .
116 : 12 . we simply cannot . god will not be outdone in his generosity !
what we can do is to share that " great good " by taking this message to the people of god .
dmca noticegodaddy bowl ‘ send off ’ planned for red wolves - fox16.com on may 9 we gathered at our apartment for a family celebration like we do every year on the national holiday [ day of memory and remembrance ] .
police showed up and arrested nargiza , and an hour later more police came and took my two younger sisters .
i went to the police station but they wouldn & # 8217 ; t let me in to see my sisters , saying it was & # 8220 ; closed for the holiday . & # 8221 ; around 8 p.m. a guard finally let me in and i was able to see the eldest sister , nargiza , for about 10 minutes .
she was crying and said she had been beaten up .
i asked if she had seen our two sisters and she said & # 8216 ; no . & # 8217 ; all the officers around us had been drinking .
they let my sisters go at 8 p.m. that evening .
nargiza cried out that she had been raped and beaten at the police station .
at first , i didn & # 8217 ; t believe her but then she showed me bruises on her arms and legs . all of my sisters were crying hysterically .
uzbek authorities continue to refuse access to the country to the un special rapporteur on torture .
click on an area to find out where you can pick up a copy of it was a white christmas mon dec 30 , 2013 11 : 26 am est etowah adopts new regulations mon dec 30 , 2013 11 : 26 am est soldier ’ s tribute to freedom presented at dar meeting mon dec 30 , 2013 11 : 26 am est cleaning up meth labs can cost the property owner big bucks mon dec 30 , 2013 7 : 26 pm est new law requires vending machines to display calories mon dec 30 , 2013 5 : 26 pm est arrests made in two bank robberies mon dec 30 , 2013 7 : 26 pm est ut to increase minimum starting pay mon dec 30 , 2013 5 : 26 pm est army times roundup mon dec 30 , 2013 3 : 26 pm est roots of cosmetology mon dec 30 , 2013 5 : 26 pm est espn hires tim tebow as a college football analyst for sec network mon dec 30 , 2013 5 : 26 pm est kingsport man accused of brutally attacking grandma mon dec 30 , 2013 7 : 26 pm est work underway for tweetsie trail mon dec 30 , 2013 5 : 26 pm est maryville director of schools retiring mon dec 30 , 2013 7 : 26 pm est va outpatient clinic coming to roane county mon dec 30 , 2013 5 : 26 pm est mobile apps to keep you on track for 2014 mon dec 30 , 2013 5 : 26 pm est new year ’ s resolutions for 2014 mon dec 30 , 2013 5 : 26 pm est walland home damaged by fire fri dec 20 , 2013 11 : 26 am est knoxville man killed in â thu dec 19 , 2013 9 : 26 pm est first capital center sold out of foreclosure mon dec 30 , 2013 5 : 26 pm est fedex accused of racketeering by new york mon dec 30 , 2013 5 : 26 pm est southwind , windyke hoping to avoid annexation for now mon dec 30 , 2013 9 : 26 pm est federal dollars to extend germantown greenway mon dec 30 , 2013 7 : 26 pm est new year to ring in changes on beale street mon dec 30 , 2013 7 : 26 pm est ’ law & order : svu ’ actress ’ organization to help memphis ’ rape kit backlog mon dec 30 , 2013 7 : 26 pm est tennessee suspect arrested on bus in arkansas mon dec 30 , 2013 5 : 26 pm est tenn man charged with vehicular homicide mon dec 30 , 2013 1 : 26 pm est autopsy : suspect in mpd standoff died of smoke inhalation mon dec 30 , 2013 7 : 26 pm est two arrested in fatal hit and run mon dec 30 , 2013 5 : 26 pm est calls to memphis suicide hotline on the rise mon nov 11 , 2013 7 : 26 pm est calls to memphis suicide hotline on increase sat nov 9 , 2013 3 : 26 pm est man jailed for stealing duffel bag of women ’ s underwear fri nov 8 , 2013 9 : 26 pm est beale street prepares for tens of thousands of nye participants mon dec 30 , 2013 9 : 26 pm est blight patrol looking for work mon dec 30 , 2013 9 : 26 pm est mother says she has proof her son was abused by foster parents for years mon dec 30 , 2013 7 : 26 pm est year in review : the top lists of 2013 mon dec 30 , 2013 3 : 26 pm est year will wrap up with just a flurry or two mon dec 30 , 2013 11 : 26 am est new life abounds at nashville zoo mon dec 30 , 2013 05 : 26 am est born in prison , student now excels at vanderbilt wed dec 25 , 2013 03 : 26 am est tennessee to get $ 9.2m for low-achieving schools tue dec 24 , 2013 09 : 26 am est sober rides available for free this new year ’ s eve mon dec 30 , 2013 7 : 26 pm est flu cases on the rise across tennessee mon dec 30 , 2013 9 : 26 pm est tennessee suspect arrested on bus in arkansas mon dec 30 , 2013 7 : 26 pm est online abonelike-gazetehoşgeldi̇n 201401 ocak 2014 çarşambaanasayfaekonomifinansdış haberlerpolitikatoplumsektörlerkategori̇lerfinansne , nerede , ne zamangündembi̇k i̇lanlarıdünya ihtdış i̇lişkileremtiai̇şletme-yönetimmevzuatnews in englishgüncelyorum i̇ncelemebölgelerdenözel dosyalarresmi gazetetiger monitorbankacılık sektörübilişimdemir-çelik sektörüenerji sektörügıda sektörühaberleşme sektörühizmetleri̇nşaat sektörükimya-petrokimya sektörümadencilik sektörümağazacılık-perakendecilik sektörümedya sektörüotomotiv sektörüplastik-kauçuk sektörüsanayisavunma sanayiisigortacılık sektörütarım ve hayvancılıktaşımacılık sektörütekstil sektörüturizm sektörü17 : 48 - putinden , gül ve erdoğana yeni yıl mesajı17 : 32 - yılın yazar , fikir insanı ve sanatçıları açıklandı17 : 29 - filistinin prag büyükelçisi hayatını kaybetti17 : 24 - bulgaristanda asgari ücret 340 leva oldu17 : 22 - türkiye , avrupa ’ nın 11. zengini ! 17 : 16 - kuzu paralel devlet twitlerine açıklama getirdi17 : 15 - ötv artışı sektörü kötü etkileyecek16 : 38 - sayıştay tcdd raporu : gerekirse soruşturulsun16 : 03 - resmi burslu öğrencilere yeni yıl sürprizi15 : 54 - fakıbabadan türgeve 3 milyon liralık arsahaberleşme sektörü haberlerivodafone 'dan yeni " devreden tarife " abonelerin kullanılmayan dakikaları bir sonraki ay kullanıma hazır bekliyorbinlerce insan internetle tanıştı " i̇nternetle hayat kolay " projesi , 4 bine yakın kişiyi internetle tanıştırdıgsm operatörleri 2013'ü memnun uğurluyorvodafone türkiye , avea ve turkcell , 2014 yılında da yatırımlara devam edecekttnet yılın en iyi oyunlarını seçecekplaystore , oyun dünyasının en önemli sitelerinden merlin 'in kazanı ile birlikte " playstore yılın oyunları " anketini gerçekleştiriyorturkcell 'den esnafa " ücretsiz sipariş hattı " ücretsiz sipariş hattı sayesinde dışarıdan sipariş alan bakkal , büfe , lokanta , su bayisi gibi işletmeler turkcell 'li müşterileri tarafından ücretsiz aranabilecekavea 'ya " en i̇yi i̇çerik sağlayıcı " ödülüavea , samena 'nın ödül organizasyonunda " en i̇yi i̇çerik sağlayıcı " seçildi " made in turkey " damgalı ilk turkcell t40'lar banttan çıktımanisa 'daki banttan çıkan " made in turkey " damgalı türkiye 'nin ilk yerli üretim akıllı telefonu turkcell t40'lar ocak başında satışa sunulacakturkcell 'den " basın kampanyası " turkcell , basın mensuplarının mesleki iletişim ihtiyaçları doğrultusunda özel olarak " turkcell basın kampanyası " tasarladıvodafone 'dan i̇ngiltere 'ye teknoloji ihracıtürk mühendisler tarafından üretilen yeni teknolojiler vodafone i̇ngiltere 'de kullanılmaya başlandı .
vodafone türkiye , i̇ngiltere için lokasyon bazlı teknoloji çözümleri üretiyorhaberleşmeye 3 ayda 8 milyar lira harcadıkyılın üçüncü çeyreğinde türk telekom , mobil ve diğer şebeke işletmecilerinin net satış gelirleri yaklaşık 7,9 milyar lira olarak gerçekleştitürk telekom , android ve dect teknolojilerini ‘ ev ’ de birleştirdiev telefonu e4 ’ ü tanıtan türk telekom ceo ’ su tahsin yılmaz , android ve dect teknolojilerini birleştiren telefonu şimdilik çin ’ de ürettiklerini ancak orta vadede türkiye ’ de üretmeyi hedeflediklerini kaydettivodafone 'nun akıllısı aralık 'ta piyasadavodafone 'nun yerli üretim akıllı cep telefonu ' vodafone blade v ' vestel tesislerinde üretilecektürk telekom teknoloji laboratuvarı açıldıbilgi teknolojileri ve i̇letişim kurumu ( btk ) başkanı tayfun acarer , " cumhuriyetin 100. kuruluş yıl dönümdeki hedeflere ulaşmada bilişim sektörü çok önemli " dedi.yeni dünyaya ayak uyduramayan yok olurbugün başlayan turkcell teknoloji zirvesi 'ni ilk günde beş binden fazla kişi ağırladıyeni iphone için yeni nesil sensör geliştiriliyor2014 yılında çıkacak yeni iphone 'lar için , ekranda ağır veya hafif dokunuşları ayırt edebilecek yeni bir sensör geliştirmeye çalışılıyor.12345678sonraki sayfa dünya onlinedünya grubu hakkındaonline künyedünya gazetesi künyesiabonelikalışverişrssreklami̇letişimdiğer sitelerimizkobiden.comdunyastore.compcworld.com.trcomputerworld.com.trbyte.com.trdunyagida.com.trdunyainsaat.com.trdünya ekonomi tvcaribbean news now ! : news from haiti an absolute ban on the russian winter olympics of 2014 in sochi is simply essential .
stage them elsewhere in utah , lillehammer , anywhere you like .
at all costs putin cannot be seen to have the approval of the civilised world .
he is making scapegoats of gay people , just as hitler did jews .
he cannot be allowed to get away with it .
i know whereof i speak .
i have visited russia , stood up to the the house of lords debated the government bill on gay marriage and came out with an overwhelming majority .
brilliant .
well done men in robes and we all go home ?
not quite .
as i listened to lord dear spew out his old-fashioned views on what marriage is .
i thought to myself ... why is this person having any say on and a potential threat to legislation ?
the modern world thinks of art as very important , something close to the meaning of life .
the symptoms of this elevated regard include the opening of new museums , the channelling of significant government resources towards the production and display of art , the desire on the part of the guardians of art to expand ' access ' to works ( especially for the benefit of children and minority groups ) , the prestige of academic art theory and the high valuations of the commercial art market .
my daughter is becoming a professional revolutionaryafp via getty images could it take a decade for you to trust barclays again ? bloomberg via getty images lgbtirish politicians go to war over equal marriageniall carson / pa archive ukipfarage wants to offer syrians asylum as long as they 're christianassociated press iraqchilcot set to release his report into the war ' in the new year 'jim watson via getty images sciencehow many americans still don 't believe in evolution ? dorling kindersley via getty imageshot on internationalfrance to impose unbelievably high tax on the richkenzo tribouillard via getty imageshot on wtf ? upset that you had a power cut over all of xmas ?
kirstie thinks you 're # spolitukmike marsland via getty images is this the most terrifying photobomb of all time ? june emerson indian ministry > upcoming datesyear of the canonization of st. kateri special celebrations : - in the indian culture 's spirit of " welcoming " everyone is welcome to all events . - the trust of prairie public & # 8217 ; s members and of the public at large is a high priority for prairie public , and our policy on use of membership lists reflects the belief that we are a public service accountable to the public . © 2013 indexmundi - all rights reservedekonomi ve finans verileri / dünya gazetesi dünya onlinefinans haberlerihisse senetleritahvil / bonodövizparitelervobdış piyasalar69.100-3,242,07801,662,84000,981.192-2,1217 : 01 new york borsası yükselişle açıldı10 : 20 avrupa borsaları sınırlı yükselişle açıldı10 : 19 asya borsaları yükseldi09 : 17 vi̇op 'ta endeks kontratı güne yatay başladı09 : 05 dolar 2,1250 liradan , euro 2,9290 liradan güne başladıhisse senetleri yüzde 13.31 değer kaybettidarphane 'den tüm zamanların üretim rekorufinans iş gücü maliyeti en yüksek sektör oldumerkez bankası 'nın resmi rezerv varlıkları arttıs & p ’ den ukrayna ’ ya “ durağan ” notugerii̇leribist100bist50bist3069.100 % -3.24en yüksek71.841en düşük68.58719.12.201366.468 % -3.31en yüksek69.156en düşük65.96119.12.201384.112 % -3.49en yüksek87.693en düşük83.47019.12.2013bist100kim ne dedi ? günün ajandasıgeçen hafta ne oldu ? trlibid / trli̇bor yıllık yüzde 7,7000 / 8,0740teb ’ de hedef 1.000 kuyumcu " sermaye akımları güçlenirse , kur 2014 yılında 1.80 tl de olabilir " dolar 2 tl ’ yi gördü , hesaplar şaştı ! piyasanın önüne geçemezsen seni test edertüm piyasa haberleribist 100 endeksi bugun % 3.24 geriledi ( 69100 ) , bugunku islem hacmi 4 milyar 657 milyon tl olduabd 'de dogalgaz stoklari toplam 3248 milyar feet kup oldu ( beklenti : 3273 mfk onceki : 3533 mfk ) abd 'de dogalgaz stoklari -285 milyar feet kup ( beklenti : -260 mfk onceki : -81 mfk ) 28 subat 'ta tutuklu kalmadi : cevik bir dahil 5 sanik tahliye edildi - bloomberg httcmb 'nin yarin acacagi doviz satim ihalesinde tutar minimum 50 milyon dolar olacak veri bankasıenflasyoni̇şsi̇zli̇ksanayi̇ üreti̇mi̇gsyhdiş ti̇caret dengesi̇beklenti̇ anketi̇tüketi̇ci̇ güven endeksi̇kapasi̇te kullanimicari̇ i̇şlemler dengesi̇ dünya onlinedünya grubu hakkındaonline künyedünya gazetesi künyesiabonelikalışverişrssreklami̇letişimdiğer sitelerimizkobiden.comdunyastore.compcworld.com.trcomputerworld.com.trbyte.com.trdunyagida.com.trdunyainsaat.com.trdünya ekonomi tvburada yer alan yatırım bilgi , yorum ve tavsiyeler yatırım danışmanlığı kapsamında değildir .
yatırım danışmanlığı hizmeti , aracı kurumlar , portföy yönetim şirketleri , mevduat kabul etmeyen bankalar ile müşteri arasında imzalanacak yatırım danışmanlığı sözleşmesi çerçevesinde sunulmaktadır .
burada yer alan yorum ve tavsiyeler , yorum ve tavsiyede bulunanların kişisel görüşlerine dayanmaktadır .
bu görüşler mali durumunuz ile risk getiri tercihlerinize uygun olmayabilir .
bu nedenle , sadece burada yer alan bilgilere dayanılarak yatırım kararı verilmesi beklentilerinize uygun sonuçlar doğurmayabilir.bist isim ve logosu " koruma marka belgesi " altında korunmakta olup izinsiz kullanılamaz , iktibas edilemez , değiştirilemez .
bist ismi altında açıklanan tüm bilgilerin telif hakları tamamen bist 'ye ait olup , tekrar yayınlanamaz .
tüm finansal veriler matriks aracılığıyla sağlanmaktadır .
veriler 15 dakika gecikmelidir . canada goose authorized retailer - antarctic connection © 2014 laurentian publishingappear on ' good day new mexico ' | kob.com let us show you how we can give your business the star treatment .
please fill out the form below and a i ’ ve never subscribed to the paper .
how did i get on the mailing list ?
how do i get a subscription to the best times if i live in johnson county ?
may i subscribe to the best times if i am under 60 or not a johnson county resident ?
if you are 60 or older and a resident of johnson county , , all you need to do is let us know your name and address .
quick access to all the senior news , and no paper to recycle ! very cool to go and see him live , not to gun ban at toby keith restaurant draws ire mon dec 30 , 2013 01 : 29 am est planned rollout of new d.c. traffic cameras hits a snag sun dec 29 , 2013 7 : 29 pm est 89-year-old killed in rockville car crash sun dec 29 , 2013 5 : 29 pm est advertise with us — newschannel 8 fri apr 12 , 2013 5 : 29 pm edt about us and talent bios fri nov 9 , 2012 09 : 29 am est let ’ s talk live tue oct 30 , 2012 09 : 29 am edt the pet show tue oct 30 , 2012 09 : 29 am edt stormwatch 7 weather tue oct 30 , 2012 09 : 29 am edt metro open later for new year ’ s eve mon dec 30 , 2013 5 : 29 pm est cheetahs kill white-tailed deer at national zoo fri dec 27 , 2013 7 : 29 pm est metro open later for new year ’ s holiday mon dec 30 , 2013 09 : 29 am est intoxicated metro passenger falls at l ’ enfant plaza sun dec 29 , 2013 9 : 29 pm est recent robberies and arrests in dc sat dec 28 , 2013 3 : 29 pm est usa citizen in a foreign state .
it is accepted by all us government agencies as certificate ( it is a certification of the facts of birth as recorded in a proof of physical presence in the us after the age of 14 .
afdb country representative , dr tonia kandiero said both parties have reaffirmed to cherish the friendship and cordial relationship that exist between the bank and the government .
december 20 , 2013 georgetown , guyana -- according to one of the lawyers acting for the plaintiffs in a civil action in guyana contesting the validity of a will in a multimillion us dollar estate , the document in question is a fake . & ldquo ; the will is a fake , & rdquo ; attorney khemraj ramjattan was heard to tell chief justice ian chang .
pattaya and we specialize in helping foreigners whether relocating or lcl loads chiangmai rates and companies .
this is overseen by our kiwi foreign manager and we can deliver door to door in bangkok or chiangmai , pattaya , hua hin and towns on as at 2013 all shipments for personal every customer must sign an indemnity form to cover our company regarding all personal shipments .
pallets we can supply and will not accept pallets from customers shipping lcl .
due to drugs etc and contraband we will no longer ship and pack goods and take responsibility if you do not sign the indemnity form .
works of art and antiquities and this includes buddhas even made of plastic and bought on the street they must be classified by the fine arts dept so be aware of this when asking us for a quotation and you wish to send personal items please tell us exactly what you are shipping .
itemize all articles so we can tell you if you need fumigation , clearance from customs and fine arts depts etc .
we will not quote you if you do not list all items you wish to ship we can help you as we ship many bikes .
shipping crates can range from 1500 baht to 3000baht per cbm .
have cheap then you may find your goods may be damaged as all shipments will be forklifted and stacked sometimes 3-4 times .
we can give you a rough estimate but you need to make sure you give the right dimensions and then allow us to see so we can tell you any changes of cbm you may need .
quotes are just indicative and can change now in 2008 due to the cost of fuel .
works of art and antiquities and this includes buddhas even made of plastic and bought on the street they must be classified by the fine arts dept so be aware of this as the price for customs can be anywhere up to 3000baht just for clearance even though you only paid 1000baht on the street and its not antique. you also need fumigation for all wood products and crates .
we mainly ship port to port and then send the receiver of the goods the bill of lading and shipping documents for one to clear customs .
its pretty easy to clear yourself and we tell those who come to us for shipping .
freight flowers , fish etc ] [ shipping world ports of entry ] [ internal transport ] [ shipping motorcycles ] [ shipping motorcycles fcl ] [ bikes to australia packing ] [ pratunam market garment hotels ] [ garment buying help ] [ go [ temporary importing ] [ temporary shipping using a " carnet " ] [ sea personal goods ] [ cert of origin ] [ sourcing goods for you ] [ uk clearing agent ] [ storage in bangkok ] [ pallets for sale bangkok ] [ shipping to usa ] [ importing cars ] [ containers for sale ] [ shipping terms & abrevs ] [ our yannawa bangkok storage & loading ] [ 40ft used containers for sale ] [ 40ft used flatracks ] [ unaccompanied baggage ] [ sending under 45kgs air freight ] [ thai chamber of commerce ] [ foreign chamber of commerce ] [ vat refund on shipping cargo ] [ faqs on airfreight cargo ] the utah professionals ’ directory sits on utah lawyers ’ desks and is used daily throughout the year .
just one advertisement in utah ’ s professionals ’ directory reaches utah ’ s legal community for one full year . the utah professionals ’ directory stays on lawyers ’ , judges ’ , paralegals ’ and court reporters ’ desks and is used all year .
the new underground water storage facility is now operational – and it couldn ’ t have come at a more opportune time .
he demonstrated that an infusion of the mineral helped to stop the pain .
of course , an infusion isn 't the most practical of treatments when you 're struck by a migraine at the office , say , but supplements can also help . < em > flickr photo by < a href = " http : / / www.flickr.com / photos / mfdudu / 1211609716 / " target = " _ hplink " > mfdudu < / a > < / em > rubbing the templesthere may not be a body of research to support a simple head rub , but there 's no denying it feels good !
people instinctively rub their temples in the throes of a headache , and if it works for them , why not ?
" whatever feels good , do that ! " says mauskop.massagein a similar vein , a whole-body massage can help , too .
part of that is likely due to the stress relief , as tension is a known headache trigger .
not a huge water fan ?
there are plenty of ways to snazz up a glass or trick yourself into sipping more throughout the day < a href = " http : / / www.huffingtonpost.com / 2012 / 05 / 07 / drinking-water-week-more-water _ n _ 1474999.html " target = " _ hplink " > here < / a > .
12 / 25 / 2013 vaticanpope : christmas , glory to the merciful god , and peace to people tormented by war and violencethe conflicts in syria , iraq , the holy land and africa are included in pope francis ' first christmas message .
may god " touch the hearts " of those engaged in human trafficking and child soldiers .
may the " lord of life protect those who are persecuted because of your name , " and may " everyone [ . . . ] come to know the true face of god , the father who has given us jesus . "
may " each of us give glory to god above all by our lives , by lives spent for love for him and his brothers and sisters . " 12 / 23 / 2013 vaticanpope : jesus does not come only with mary in bethlehem , but comes every day in the church and in usin his homily at the domus sanctae marthae , pope francis spoke of three comings of jesus - in bethlehem , at the end of time and in our lives - calling upon us to imitate the expectant mary and follow her in the injunction " come ! "
he also highlighted the dangers of not living as pilgrims , but as people " holed up in an inn " behind a " do not disturb " sign.12 / 23 / 2013 russiapussy riot amnesty just kremlin propaganda by nina achmatovaonce out of prison , mary aliokhina attacks putin 's granting of clemency .
even khodorkovsky pardon for analysts , is not a " humanitarian act " .
the kremlin seeks to divert attention from human rights in russia on the eve of sochi .
officials : bellrichard threatens to set fire to homes of attorneys , cop tue nov 26 , 2013 9 : 16 pm est mnsure debuts 3 new paul and babe tv ads sat nov 16 , 2013 3 : 16 pm est ’ short-term care and rehabilitation ’ an exciting change tue nov 19 , 2013 1 : 16 pm est duluth diocese to reveal list of ’ credibly accused ’ priests mon dec 30 , 2013 7 : 16 pm est anytime fitness to build new hq in woodbury mon dec 30 , 2013 7 : 16 pm est partial evacuation of nd town near oil train derailment mon dec 30 , 2013 9 : 16 pm est working for minimum wage : theres no room for advancement mon dec 30 , 2013 03 : 16 am est mpr reporter who revealed clergy sex-abuse : ’ i knew this was the sort of call that i don ’ t usually get ’ sat dec 28 , 2013 03 : 16 am est same-sex marriage : ’ it was a good day , even though it was a sad time ’ fri dec 27 , 2013 03 : 16 am est betsy hodges ’ mom : ’ i knew shed be a very good mayor ’ wed dec 25 , 2013 01 : 16 am est frostbitten umd student to be told about extent of injuries , plans for amputations mon dec 30 , 2013 9 : 16 pm est bundle up and batten down : 2014 will get a frigid welcome in minn . mon dec 30 , 2013 9 : 16 pm est seesawing gasoline prices are on the upswing in minnesota mon dec 30 , 2013 9 : 16 pm est spielman on firing frazier : ’ change needed ’ to go forward mon dec 30 , 2013 7 : 16 pm est plenty of fun activities for these subzero days mon dec 30 , 2013 9 : 16 pm est rybak ’ s parting plan : reconnect the west bank mon dec 30 , 2013 9 : 16 pm est mnsure : deadline nears for health plan signups mon dec 30 , 2013 9 : 16 pm est frazier : ’ i ’ m thankful for my time here in minnesota ’ mon dec 30 , 2013 1 : 16 pm est 2013 : the people we met mon dec 30 , 2013 01 : 16 am est countys soar team to get new leadership mon dec 30 , 2013 01 : 16 am est amélioration des conditions de vie : le collectif des mareyeurs signe des conventions pour l ’ assurance et la micro ...
le collectif des mareyeurs du sénégal a signé , lundi dernier , au marché central au poisson , des conventions et partenariats avec des sociétés d ’ assurances et structures de micro finance telles que la nsia assurances , cofina , etc .
l ’ objectif visé par cette initiative est de mettre les mareyeurs du sénégal dans des conditions optimales de vie et de travail . ( 12 / 28 / 2013 5 : 22 : 27 am ) senegal : the poet who was president - the legacy of léopold sédar senghor investissements : des russes annoncent une usine de transformation de produits halieutiques à sangalkam actuellement en visite au sénégal , le coordinateur pour l ’ afrique du fonds d ’ investissement hermes-sojitz , oleg iantovskii , nous en dit un peu plus sur les ambitions de son groupe au sénégal et en afrique de l ’ ouest . ( 12 / 26 / 2013 5 : 07 : 02 am ) sherriene jones-sontag , a spokeswoman for brownback , said the legal challenge to that state ’ s law hasn ’ t dampened support for it .
she said brownback has received about 500 emails and calls in the last two weeks , and less than 6 percent of them have been critical of his pledge to defend the law in court . free copies of the ncsl survey can be requested by state lawmakers and credentialed media by emailing press-room & # 064 ; ncsl.org .
others can purchase a copy for $ 30 at www.ncsl.org / bookstore .
got a success story of your own ?
send it to us at success.stories @ huffingtonpost.com and you could be featured in our i lost weight series !
breaking point : i had back pain , shortness of breath and i had lost all self-esteem .
the huffington post publishes photographs as they are submitted to us by our readers. but i never took it any further .
i knew that and change .
i believe that i will see an end to be part of it through 40 days for life .
all the info you need to know about coming to the phillipines as at 2009 april the carcasses of some of the 22 elephants slaughtered in a helicopter attack lie on the ground in the democratic republic of congo 's garamba national park .
dogs are trained to hunt down rhino poachers in pretoria , south africa , in a bid to wipe out the continuing killings of the animal .
the carcass of a rhino is seen after it was killed for its horn by poachers at the kruger national park in mpumalanga province .
improving job market in florida ?
no , just a glitchy website if apd doesn ’ t spend the extra money by the end of the year , it goes back into the city ’ s general fund .
making the call in the cuf council session in dar es salaam , he said : & ldquo ; the leadership system should be strengthened to get accountable leaders to stand on behalf of tanzanians and the nation at large . & rdquo ; he urged other parties to think of and reflect on the new constitution to give vision and hope to tanzanians all over the country .
letter to the editor : prabowo clarifies i am writing this response to the article entitled ...
building urban resilience in the last few years , the concept of resilience has rapidly become ...
pttep in court challenge to resource tax bill rulingthe age 10 : 03 1-jan-14 now , the self-dubbed " front page of the internet " is going for a milestone it has been trying to reach since its founding in 2005 : profitability .
catch the taxis into town on the 2nd floor .
you have to pay 50baht surcharge on top of the taxi fare meter at the end of the trip and make sure the driver has his meter on .. top the departure & vice versa if wanting a bus into bangkok.free shuttle if coming by bus to the bus terminal or if you wish to catch a bus into town to say the victory monument then use the shuttle bus .
there is a 7 / 11 and atms at the terminal and everything is well displayed in english for onward travel by bus ..
two airlifted to trauma center after pickup crashes in barnegat light mon dec 30 , 2013 6 : 20 pm est old drug making a comeback as ' molly ' mon dec 30 , 2013 06 : 20 am est old drug making a comebackas ' molly ' mon dec 30 , 2013 12 : 20 am est two airlifted to trauma center after pickup crashes in barnegat light mon dec 30 , 2013 4 : 20 pm est elderly man found dead in his nj home ; son charged mon dec 30 , 2013 6 : 20 pm est old drug making a comeback as ’ molly ’ mon dec 30 , 2013 12 : 20 pm est suit : woman forced to end maternity leave for loan mon dec 30 , 2013 04 : 20 am est jersey city police seek man who robbed a gas station at gunpoint in stolen vehicle mon dec 30 , 2013 8 : 20 pm est bayonne has one of the four winners of the $ 728k jersey lottery mon dec 30 , 2013 8 : 20 pm est pro football experience comes to branchburg mon dec 30 , 2013 8 : 20 pm est pushcart players celebrate new jersey mon dec 30 , 2013 8 : 20 pm est new year ’ s eve party planned by east brunswick elks lodge mon dec 30 , 2013 6 : 20 pm est baraka calls for gang ceasefire in newark ; mom seeks justice for son killed on christmas mon dec 30 , 2013 08 : 20 am est north jersey catholics find hope in pope ’ s ’ new vibe ’ thu dec 26 , 2013 12 : 20 am est jewish families gather for a fun day on christmas wed dec 25 , 2013 6 : 20 pm est photo : the cinque family home decked out for the holidays wed dec 25 , 2013 6 : 20 pm est moonachie couple ’ s christmas extravaganza bounces back year after sandy wed dec 25 , 2013 6 : 20 pm est a blueprint for change languishes in trenton video tue dec 24 , 2013 02 : 20 am est bergen county freeholders ok fee hikes for picnic grounds , athletic fields mon dec 30 , 2013 8 : 20 pm est cuba ’ s santeria faithful ask for prosperous 2014 mon dec 30 , 2013 8 : 20 pm est 18 migrants dies in capsizing off turks and caicos wed dec 25 , 2013 2 : 20 pm est gop can count ways to senate majority sun dec 29 , 2013 12 : 20 pm est assemblyman tim eustace promises to push for campaign financing reform sat dec 28 , 2013 02 : 20 am est record talk radio to host assemblyman tim eustace friday thu dec 26 , 2013 2 : 20 pm est nj dems wait to see if van drew will run for house thu dec 26 , 2013 12 : 20 pm est pinstripe bowl : notre dame suspends rb atkinson for rutgers matchup sat dec 28 , 2013 12 : 20 pm est nyc times square ’ s crystal ball gets gleaming new skin sat dec 28 , 2013 10 : 20 am est borough takeover of volunteer firehouse looms in north haledon mon dec 30 , 2013 10 : 20 pm est benezra out as montclair ’ s network administrator network admin mon dec 30 , 2013 6 : 20 pm est morristown man ’ s app lets partiers hire driver for their own car mon dec 30 , 2013 6 : 20 pm est bo wallace , ole miss outlast georgia tech mon dec 30 , 2013 10 : 20 pm est giants opt to keep coach tom coughlin mon dec 30 , 2013 8 : 20 pm est sizing up possible candidates for rutgers ’ defensive coordinator mon dec 30 , 2013 8 : 20 pm est government shutdown a worry for hopeful homebuyers sun oct 13 , 2013 8 : 20 pm edt food for thought : let them eat thu oct 3 , 2013 12 : 20 am edt re-enactors bring a touch of the civil war to burlington mansion sat sep 28 , 2013 8 : 20 pm edt the road to forgiveness thu sep 26 , 2013 12 : 20 am edt online abonelike-gazetehoşgeldi̇n 201401 ocak 2014 çarşambaanasayfaekonomifinansdış haberlerpolitikatoplumsektörlerkategori̇lerfinansne , nerede , ne zamangündembi̇k i̇lanlarıdünya ihtdış i̇lişkileremtiai̇şletme-yönetimmevzuatnews in englishgüncelyorum i̇ncelemebölgelerdenözel dosyalarresmi gazetetiger monitorbankacılık sektörübilişimdemir-çelik sektörüenerji sektörügıda sektörühaberleşme sektörühizmetleri̇nşaat sektörükimya-petrokimya sektörümadencilik sektörümağazacılık-perakendecilik sektörümedya sektörüotomotiv sektörüplastik-kauçuk sektörüsanayisavunma sanayiisigortacılık sektörütarım ve hayvancılıktaşımacılık sektörütekstil sektörüturizm sektörü17 : 48 - putinden , gül ve erdoğana yeni yıl mesajı17 : 32 - yılın yazar , fikir insanı ve sanatçıları açıklandı17 : 29 - filistinin prag büyükelçisi hayatını kaybetti17 : 24 - bulgaristanda asgari ücret 340 leva oldu17 : 22 - türkiye , avrupa ’ nın 11. zengini ! 17 : 16 - kuzu paralel devlet twitlerine açıklama getirdi17 : 15 - ötv artışı sektörü kötü etkileyecek16 : 38 - sayıştay tcdd raporu : gerekirse soruşturulsun16 : 03 - resmi burslu öğrencilere yeni yıl sürprizi15 : 54 - fakıbabadan türgeve 3 milyon liralık arsabankacılık sektörü haberlerikredi kartı düzenlemesi tüketiciyi paniğe soktutüder başkanı ağaoğlu , kredi kartıyla taksitli alışveriş sınırlamasının tüketicilerde panik yarattığını belirterek , kart ile cep telefonu , laptop gibi ürünlerin taksitle satılamayacağı şeklinde algı yarattığını ifade ettibireysel emekliliğe katılım yüzde 30 arttıbcg tarafından türkiye 'deki bireysel emeklilik sistemine yönelik yapılan analize göre , 1 ocak 2013 tarihinden itibaren hayata geçen yeni düzenleme sayesinde sisteme katılım yüzde 30 oranında artış gösterdibddk 'nın 5 yönetmeliği yürürlüğe girdivakıfbank 100 milyon euro finansman sağladıayb ve vakıfbank arasında 100 milyon euro finansman sağlanmasına yönelik anlaşma imzalandıbankacılık sektörünün kredi hacmi arttıbankacılık sektörünün toplam kredi hacmi , 20 aralık itibarıyla 1 trilyon 44 milyar 278 milyon liraya yükseldi .
bankaların bireysel kredi kartı alacakları ise 81,6 milyar liraya düştüengelleri kaldıran banka : yapı krediyapı kredi engelsiz bankacılık programı , i̇şitme engelliler federasyonu 'nun düzenlediği " i̇şitme engelliler i̇çin türkiye 'nin i̇lkleri ödülleri " nde " engelleri kaldıran banka " ödülünü alarak , bu alanda 3 ödülün sahibi oldugürcistan 'ın en büyük bankası türkiye 'de temsilcilik açacakgürcistan 'ın en büyük bankası bank of georgia , türkiye 'de temsilcilik açacakodeabank yeni yılı yeni şube açılışıyla karşıladıodeabank 'ın i̇stanbul 'daki en büyük şubesi etiler 'de açıldıi̇ş bankası 'na 54.6 milyon lira vergi cezasıi̇ş bankası 'na 2009-2011 yılına ait toplam 54.6 milyon lira vergi ve ceza tebliğ edildii̇ş bankası 'ndan kobi̇ 'lere özel yeni yıl kredisinakde ihtiyaç duyan işletme sahipleri i̇ş bankası 'nın kredi kampanyası ile 150.000 tl 'ye kadar indirimli faiz oranları ile kredilerden yararlanabilecekyapı kredi privatebanking 'den seyir defteri projesiyapı kredi privatebanking , " davranışsal finans " teorisini risk ölçüm analizlerinde kullandığı seyir defteri projesini hayata geçirdiaradaki ticari denge aleyhimize geliştitürkiye-i̇ran i̇ş forumu 'nda konuşan halkbank dış i̇şlemler daire başkanı aydoğan , halkbank 'ın iki ülke ticaretinde son dönemde yaşananlar nedeniyle finansman temini için yeni uygulamalara gittiğini söyledi " toplam kart adeti 150 milyon " bkm genel müdürü dr. soner canko , " mobil finansal hizmetler konusunda önde gelen organizasyon şirketi mobey forum , türkiye 'nin mobil finansal hizmetler alanındaki projeleri mercek altına alacak " dedibddk ’ dan " dolaylı " kredi açıklamasıbanka yöneticisinin yüzde 25'ten fazla " dolaylı " ortak olduğu şirkete kredi verebileceğini bildiren bddk , belirli bir olaya özgü özel onay verilmesinin de söz konusu olamayacağını bildirdibankaların aktif büyüklüğü 1.64 trilyon lirabankacılık sektörünün dönem net karı , ekimde yüzde 11,6 artışla 21.7 milyar liraya ulaştı12345678sonraki sayfa dünya onlinedünya grubu hakkındaonline künyedünya gazetesi künyesiabonelikalışverişrssreklami̇letişimdiğer sitelerimizkobiden.comdunyastore.compcworld.com.trcomputerworld.com.trbyte.com.trdunyagida.com.trdunyainsaat.com.trdünya ekonomi tv tuesday dec 31 , 2013 kibamba urged members who will be selected to participate in the constituent assembly to put national interest first for the sake of all tanzanians .
yesterday president jakaya kikwete and zanzibar president dr ali mohammed shein received the second draft of the new constitution in dar es salaam .
fiindcă la final de an sunt la modă astfel de articole , vă propun 10 tendințe ale căror evoluție va fi interesant de urmărit în 2014 .
toamna anului viitor se anunță de acum foarte interesantă .
în octombrie 2014 vor avea alegeri pentru consiliul de administrație al bnr , care vor fi urmate la scurt timp de alegerile prezidențiale .
va fi mugur isărescu numitorul comun al acestor alegeri ?
un posibil răspuns poate veni în urma interpetării măsurilor luate de guvernatorul bnr în 2013 .
economia noastră băltește de vreo 3 ani .
nici nu mai scade , nici nu mai crește .
se reconfigurează într-un mod dăunător pe termen lung , cu o concentrare puternică în zona corporațiilor multinaționale , al căror profit este repatriat prin diverse forme de optimizare fiscală , în vreme ce afacerile locale nu prea mai reușesc să țină pasul și fie dispar complet , fie se scufundă într-o ...
pe 6 martie 2013 a avut loc la varșovia o întânire între liderii uniunii europene & # 8211 ; angela merkel și françois hollande & # 8211 ; și premierii statelor membre a grupului de la vișegrad & # 8211 ; polonia , cehia , slovacia și ungaria .
tema discuției a fost o integrare mai strânsă a uniunii europene .
participarea în premieră a cancelarului german și a președintelui francez la discuțiile ...
ideea confiscării banilor cetățenilor ciprioți de către ue și fmi pune capăt oricăror iluzii mai rămăseseră că uniunea europeană este un proiect construit pe baze democratice , cu respect pentru cetățeni .
dictatul din vară impus româniei putea avea scuza prostiei usl și a acțiunilor pripite a acestora , deși instituțiile europene și americane închiseseră ochii la abuzurile similare ...
una dintre cele mai mari presiuni la adresa statului este pentru a crea locuri de muncă .
problema este că nu are prea multe pârghii pentru a face asta .
între alegeri locale , referendum și alegerile parlamentare , declarația guvernatorului bnr privind renunțarea la adoptarea monedei euro în 2015 nu a atras atenția suficient nici în mediul economic , nici în cel politic , nici măcar în rândul analiștilor financiari .
era un deznodământ așteptat ? 1 ) românia este o ţară cu o populaţie săracă şi preponderent prost instruită .
2 ) forţa de muncă este slab spre mediu calificată , cu rare vârfuri .
în programul de guvernare al cabinetului ponta sunt prevăzute reanalizarea codului muncii şi a legii salarizării unice pentru salariaţii bugetari , precum şi a acordului tripartit privind evoluţia salariului minim brut pentru 2012-2016 , dar şi modificarea legii dialogului social .
criză economică mondială , pornită & # 8211 ; după cum bine se știe & # 8211 ; încă din 2007 ( criza subprime ) , dar conștientizată la nivel global abia un an mai târziu , în septembrie 2008 , când a avut loc spectaculoasa prăbușire a lehman brothers și multor altor nume mari din industria financiară le-a trecut glonțul pe la ureche .
deși sistemul bancar global nu a avut schimbări semnificative , ...
togo ’ s president faure gnassingbe used not to be a freemason but he was recently inducted into the secret order by denis sassou nguesso . ( ... )
ferrex plc impatiently is biding its time .
normally expected by the end of the year , a mining license to extract manganese at nayega in northern togo now probably won ’ t be awarded until early 2014 . ( ... )
the contract to mine togo ’ s carbonated phosphates is expected to be awarded by the end of the year .
but the government appears discomforted . ( ... )
after years of haggling over the sudden cancellation of a contract between togo and the compagnie energie electrique du togo ( ceet ) on one side and gdf-suez and its affiliate elyo ( ... )
the latest government reshuffle on sept .
17 saw dammipi noupokou regain his portfolio ( ... )
see the kansas department of health and environment web site below is a sample issue of our e-edition .
to view the current e-edition of the newspaper , you need to log in as an e-edition subscriber .
if you 're not currently a subscriber to the e-edition , you can subscribe now !
tip : click on the article you are interested in to bring up an easy-to-read format , or scan through the issue by clicking on the arrows to the side of the page .
but the problem is that the ngo in question does not hire employees for salary .
it only has volunteers , which is clearly indicated in the agreements : whatever is fulfilled for the organization , it is done voluntarily and no compensation is provided .
the ngo head does not know where to get the “ owed ” money .
furthermore , she does not understand just why does she have to pay it : “ if i do not have a salary budget whatsoever , what money do i use to pay taxes ?
is volunteering for social benefit is prohibited these days ?
it turns out that people cannot assemble and work for fee to help each other out ?
we are immediately outlawed in that case ?
what if we happen to have ideas , time and strength to do something good , but lack money to pay our volunteers the minimal salary ? ”
asked what she was going to do , she said “ apparently it is time to close [ the ngo ] . ”
“ the [ female ] judge told me : ‘ why are you so upset ?
it is only a fine equal to two minimal [ salaries ] ! ’ , ” the director says .
“ [ she continued ] ‘ the article [ you are charged with ] provides for a fine equal to between 50 and 100 minimal salaries . ’
but i was still terribly upset because i was tried for something that i was not guilty of . ”
the director of an ngo told that when the inspectors saw the amount of grant it has received , they were utmost surprised ( despite the fact the amount was slated for operations throughout the year ) .
“ their faces changed .
they showered us with questions : ‘ where is the money ? ’
‘ what was it spent on ? ’ ”
an inspector from the justice ministry was resentful : “ all of you , who work in ngos , are freeloaders .
you do nothing and only wait for someone to give you money . ”
if anyone has any information regarding reunions planned for 2008 in glasgow and the surrounding areas please get that to us so we can get it listed .
as for the ailing badminton , the sport has certainly seen far better and rewarding days in the country .
as for football , many , i ’ m sure , would like to see the return of the developmental taifa cup to the country ’ s football calendar .
sadly though , all the afore-mentioned dreams and hopes are still in the realm of shakily achievable possibilities .
the chevrolet city new year ’ s celebration 2014 is the place to be this year .
moving to glasgowmy husband and i are in our 20s and live in glendive , montana .
both of us highly dislike it here and a few months ago drove up to glasgow to see what it was like .
we really enjoyed what we saw and since my husband works for bnsf we could relocate there .
we were wondering what your town has to offer besides the beautiful lake ?
my husband enjoys sports .
i love all of the arts especially music and theater and we both love animals .
there are more- but here are a few off the top of my head ... they could probably refer you to more landlords in the area also .
the sun newspaper remains unrepentant about its pictures of topless models .
khodorkovsky , founder of the yukos oil corporation , was arrested in 2003 on charges of fraud and tax evasion .
the measure clears way for release of jailed members of punk band and a pardon for greenpeace crew .
the english-born thief became one of the world ’ s most wanted and unrepentant fugitives .
the weapons designer for the soviet union is immortalized in the name of the world ’ s most popular firearm .
rss terms of servicegoloading ... > > view all results for " " enter multiple symbols separated by commaslondon quotes now availablego curtis dowling and his team of investigators verify the authenticity of collectibles , artwork and antiquities using innovative technology and street smarts .
is it a fake or is it worth a fortune ?
from refrigerators to freight trains , cnbc ’ s & ldquo ; rise of the machines & rdquo ; shows you how a new generation of connected machines can now speak to us , and each other .
hosted by jim cramer , the " mad money " mission is educational : to teach you how to analyze stocks and the market like a pro .
the " fast money " gang gives you the news , as only the savviest traders can , with an angle that you won ’ t see until tomorrow ’ s papers .
from gold to gas to s & p , the " futures now " crew will teach you how to harness the power of the multi-trillion dollar futures market .
sue herera and tyler mathisen delve into the economy , the markets , real estate , media , and technology .
it 's the biggest car sale of the year !
get a preview into all the big deals and hot wheels on the season finale of the car chasers .
meggan bailey of cnbc 's " the car chasers " says bad paperwork is one of many mistakes people can make after buying a car .
the accused mastermind of a $ 65 million scam featured on " american greed : the fugitives " has been apprehended by authorities .
newseconomyfinancehealth carereal estateretailwealthautosearningsenergymediapoliticscommentaryspecial reportsasiaeuropemarketspre-marketsu.s.asiaeuropestockscommoditiescurrenciesbondsfundsetfsinvestingfinancial advisorspersonal financecnbc explainsportfoliowatchliststock screenerfund screenertechmobilesocial mediaenterprisegamingcybersecuritysmall businessfranchisingfinancingmanagementvideolatest videodigital workshopu.s. videoasia videoeurope videoceo interviewsanalyst interviewsfull episodesclosed captioningshowswatch livecnbc u.s.cnbc asia-pacificcnbc europecnbc worldfull episodescnbcabout cnbcsite mapvideo reprintsadvertisecareershelpcontactprivacy policyterms of serviceindependent programming reportlatest news releasesrsscertain market data provided by thomson reutersdata also provided bydata is a real-time snapshot * data is delayed at least 15 minutesglobal business and financial news , stock quotes , and market data and analysis © 2014 cnbc llc . all rights reserved.a division of nbcuniversalbarron 's roundtable - 10 investment experts make stock picks and predictions - barrons.com homepromotionstirestire basicstire basic infotire tread depthtires brandswarrantiesservicesour servicescooling system servicesoil lube filtersfuel system servicespower steering servicesbrake systemstransmission servicessuspension systemslocationsall locationsphone directoryspokane / idahocoeur d & # 8217 ; alenepost fallsairway heightsliberty lakedivision st.north pointnorth townnw blvd .
( audubon ) hamilton ( midtown ) south hillredwoodsullivan ( industrial park ) missoula / hamiltonhamiltonmissoula pine streetmissoula broadwaymissoula truck centermissoula brooks st.missoula southgate mallkalispellkalispell westkalispell southbillingsbillings grand ave.billings centralbillings heightsbillings downtownbillings interstate truck centerbozeman / livingston / belgradebelgrade truck centerbozeman westbozeman eastlivingstongreat falls / helena / havregreat falls centralgreat falls big skygreat falls westhavrehelenawyomingcaspergillettesheridaneastern montanaglasgowglendivemiles citycommunityoverviewcalendar thousands fail to complete std vii due to pregnancy , truancy - report na the guardian reporter for his part , the chairman for ulanga district council , furaha lilongeri said there is a need to come up with a strategy against pregnancy and truancy in schools .
tv review : downton abbey – christmas specialnousedownton abbey ' and the second-season cursetroy recordin depth : downton abbey returns with new love for lady maryvancouver sunsee all 68 sourcesrelated downton abbey pink slips added up for glazer familythe ledger - by rick brownwikipedia : greg schianosee all 81 sourcesrelated tampa bay buccaneers docs prescribe ' best preventative drug ' — exercisemonroe news starregular exercise best preventive drug : studytopnews arab emiratessee all 38 sourcesrelated disease a spokeswoman for the montreal-based company did not immediately return a call for comment .
qatar optimist cup : new year 's eve brings the best conditions so far 2013 was an outstanding year for the uae and sheikh khalifa 2103 was an outstanding year for the uae and sheikh khalifa but it & # 8217 ; s not & # 8220 ; advertising & # 8221 ; as we think of it , so how can it work ?
“ most state agency directors are liars when they ’ re sitting in front of the committee and talking about the budget , ” hutchings said at the news conference .
but with becker , hutchings said , “ it wasn ’ t just , ‘ give us the money and don ’ t ever talk to us again . ’ ”
rakhmatullaev said the decision was made at the request of the health minister .
[ read george soros crises report ] [ thailand in crises ] [ us economy worsens ] [ asia crises better than us ] [ depression safeguards ] [ depression could come ] [ thailand finance news ] [ amex bailout wrong ] [ aig abuse bailout funds ] [ gm & bankruptcy better ] [ pension funds ] [ hedge funds 2008 ] [ investing fund guidelines ] why you [ do not invest in finance companies ] [ buy gold not shares in finance companies ] [ thai property speculation & sub prime crises ] [ investment property guide ] [ borrowing money ] [ using thai company to hold property ] [ best option for foreigners buying ] the european commission and the venice commission of the council of europe have strongly warned the turkish government not to backtrack on the hsyk but to consolidate the achievements of the sept .
12 , 2010 referendum .
the european parliament , which is holding deliberations on its progress report , has also called on the government to further strengthen the hsyk and refrain from steps to weaken it , a veiled hint to ak party 's proposals to dilute the powers of the body .
in its progress report published in october , the eu praised the hsyk and called on the government not to change its structure .
however , the eu criticized the role of the justice minister and his undersecretary in the council , stating : & ldquo ; criticisms of the legislation on the high council , including of the role given to the minister of justice and to the undersecretary of the ministry , have , however , not been addressed as yet . & rdquo ; the new minister of justice , bekir bozdağ , removed the authority of the hsyk to make public statements as one of his first acts .
talking to today 's zaman , eu sources said the position taken by the minister was not in line with their recommendations but underlined that it was legal .
in the report , the eu praised the hsyk , about which erdoğan said it had been a mistake to support the changes included in the 2010 referendum , by underlining that the predictability and transparency of the decisions of the council had been further strengthened . & ldquo ; insofar as the amendments aim at increasing the power of parliament in the election of the members of the high council at the expense of the designation power of the judiciary , there can be a risk of politicization .
the requirement of a qualified majority in parliament for the election process could reduce this risk , & rdquo ; he further stated .
how the aca will affect people with hiv and aids what are the biggest aca benefits for people with hiv ?
top 10 states and territories by concentration of hiv diagnoses in april , the most likely emergencies will be due to floods and flash floods , particularly in yakhsu and kizilsu rivers .
tajikistan eu and who support of the improvement of pediatric care services ifrc allocates dref funding to respond to small-scale emergencies in kazakhstan and georgia .
fa hubfinancial advisor counciladvice and the advisoralternative investingfa playbookfast advicelife changes the holidays are fun , but also a time of financial excess .
here is the cost of a poor credit rating , and how to fix it .
if your marriage is over , you ’ re a member of the jet set and earn less than your partner , london seems to be the place to get a generous settlement .
newseconomyfinancehealth carereal estateretailwealthautosearningsenergymediapoliticscommentaryspecial reportsasiaeuropemarketspre-marketsu.s.asiaeuropestockscommoditiescurrenciesbondsfundsetfsinvestingfinancial advisorspersonal financecnbc explainsportfoliowatchliststock screenerfund screenertechmobilesocial mediaenterprisegamingcybersecuritysmall businessfranchisingfinancingmanagementvideolatest videodigital workshopu.s. videoasia videoeurope videoceo interviewsanalyst interviewsfull episodesclosed captioningshowswatch livecnbc u.s.cnbc asia-pacificcnbc europecnbc worldfull episodescnbcabout cnbcsite mapvideo reprintsadvertisecareershelpcontactprivacy policyterms of serviceindependent programming reportlatest news releasesrsscertain market data provided by thomson reutersdata also provided bydata is a real-time snapshot * data is delayed at least 15 minutesglobal business and financial news , stock quotes , and market data and analysis © 2014 cnbc llc . all rights reserved.a division of nbcuniversalnewsnow : gibraltar news | every source , every five minutes , 24 / 7 algeciras bunker fuel premiums plunge in 2013 as competition intensifies and the award for ' best island of the year ' goes to niijima don 't cry for the falklands , argentina .
just let the islanders be algeciras bunker fuel premiums plunge in 2013 as competition intensifiesplatts 21 : 15 30-dec-13 homelatest newscosta blanca newscosta levante newscosta almeria newseditorial & opinionangling clubclassifiedscosta del sol newsspanish national newsbritish scenecork talkinside spainmed tv guideliving in spainyellow pagespropertyphoto gallery the decision to scrap the proposed closure of the gran plaza shopping mall in roquetas de mar has been upheld by the andalucía high court , the tsja.judge & # 8230 ; for her part , anne-marie john of dodoma said the festive season is the time to evaluate the ending year ’ s achievements and obstacles and the way forward in the coming year .
during a christmas homily , rev clephace mgimwa of moyo wa yesu catholic parish in iringa region , said it is not enough to preach about peace , if people do not actually practice the teachings. many on our books at present .
pattaya has many superstores and supermarkets to choose from .
theres plenty of atms & you can access money anywhere via a meal .
also thai / european food served but has the best deli meats and cheeses & kiwi lamb chops , roasts , kiwi mixed frozen veges etc in pattaya .
the steaks are the best in pattaya and cheap --- where else in thailand can you buy fillet steaks for 50 baht each ? ? ? ?
veges are dearer than the markets but they have to pay rent and bills so its understandable. theres 2 tescos in pattaya and these superstores have everything .
one is on the way to the bkk / pattaya bus station on pattaya nua ( middle ) and the other on the sukhumvit highway going north .
they sell everything from food to appliances like the rest .
ideal for bulk buying .
remember too they have shops from burger king to big macs as well on central pattaya roads and 2nd road have food bars you pick the food then help yourself and eat there or take away .
not very nice decour inside but was one of the first supermarkets in pattaya and is ok and convenient .
the infamous pattaya north soi 6 a must when you come to pattaya as this is the soi where all the girls / kratoys hang out and the most colourful place in pattaya .
near the end is " jack & tars " the beer bar / food looking towards pattaya beach road .
if you have a restaurant in pattaya and want a review just email us and we advertise your restaurant or buffet on our website for free .
just check out the above restaurant review and we will do the same for you .
conditions apply more [ pattaya restaurants : 1 ] [ pattaya restaurants : 2 ] [ pattaya buffet dinners ] [ pattaya english breakfast & review ] [ pattaya top seafood review ] [ pattaya foodland prices ] [ pattaya useful tel numbers ] [ pattaya digital film ] [ pattaya buses from suvarnabhumbi airport ] [ pattaya bus times suvarnabhumbi airport ] [ pattaya english breakfasts ] [ pattaya best food ] [ pattaya tesco , big c ] [ pattaya beach ] [ pattaya tourist handy tips ] [ pattaya beach road ] [ pattaya best restaurants ] [ pattaya tesco , big c ] [ pattaya beach ] [ pattaya tourist handy tips ] [ pattaya beach road ] [ pattaya best restaurants ] [ pattaya bars ] [ pattaya jet ski hire ] [ pattaya hire cars / bikes ] [ pattaya driving license ] [ pattaya car hire ] [ pattaya motorcycle hire ] [ pattaya pickups & loads ] [ pattaya car / motorcycle reg office ] [ pattaya police & foreign volunteers ] [ pattaya scams ] [ pattaya property scams ] [ buying cars in thailand ] [ buying motorcycles in thailand ] [ pattaya bike week 2009 ] [ bang saen bike week 2008 ] [ fishing news ] [ check out bang saen ] [ more bang saen pics ] [ suvarnabhumi all the info you need to know about travel to the phillipines as at 2009 april & compare to pattaya [ thailand finance news ] [ pension funds ] [ depression looms 2008 ] [ hedge funds 2008 ] [ investing fund guidelines ] why you [ do not invest in finance companies ] [ buy gold not shares or invest in finance companies ] the striking pricedecember 17options crowd bets on march fed taper times of indiasee realtime coveragetaslima moves supreme court against fir over tweettimes of india- & lrm ; dec 16 , 2013 & lrm ; new delhi : the supreme court 's serious objections to abuse of section 66a of information technology act has not deterred up police from lodging an fir against author taslima nasrin for her criticism on twitter of aam aadmi party 's arvind kejriwal for ... related taslima nasrin the arabian peninsula is the world 's largest peninsula , at a whopping 3237500 km .
most of the area is a desert , yet almost all the countries in the arabian ...
hadhramaut , hadhramout , hadramawt or ḥaḍramūt ( arabic : حضرموت ‎ ḥaḍramawt ) is a historical region of the south arabian peninsula along the gulf of aden in the ...
cnn 's ben wedeman reports on the leader of al qaeda in the arabian peninsula .
please see the " about " section on the channel page for details of how to use this video .
hadhramaut , hadhramout , hadramawt or ḥaḍramūt ( arabic : حضرموت ‎ ḥaḍramawt ) is a historical ...
cities of the arabian peninsula at night - مدن الجزيرة العربية في الليل established in 1965 , bagader is a specialist in the import , distribution , and export of : - many thanks to tom sharman for editing and colour correction .
the arabian peninsula ( arabic : شبه الجزيرة العربية šibh al-jazīrat al-ʻarabīya or جزيرة العرب ǧazīrat al ' arab ‎ ) is a land mass situated north-east of africa .
also known as arabia or the arabian subcontinent , it is the world 's largest peninsula and covers 3,237,500 km2 ( 1,250,000 mi2 ) .
the area is an important part of the asian continent and plays a critical geopolitical role of the middle east and arab world due to its vast reserves of oil and natural gas .
the peninsula formed as a result of the rifting of the red sea between 56-23 million years ago , and is bordered by the red sea to the west , the persian gulf to the northeast , and the indian ocean to the southeast .
the arabian peninsula is located in the asia continent and bounded by ( clockwise ) the persian gulf on the northeast , the strait of hormuz and the gulf of oman on the east , the arabian sea on the southeast and south , the gulf of aden on the south , the bab-el-mandeb strait on the southwest , and the red sea on the southwest and west .
the northern portion of the peninsula merges with the syrian desert with no clear border line , although the northern boundary of the arabian peninsula is generally considered to be the northern borders of saudi arabia and kuwait. came the drought of the mid 30 's which caused a lot of farmers to go out of business .
dam was being built in 1933 .
in the 1940 's world war ii led to a demand in crops , which put farmers and ranchers back in business .
the former glasgow air force base was a main attraction for the area for war ii .
in the late 1960 's , the air force base closed which was a hard hit to glasgow .
as the u.s. impressive to see and the lake is also quite the attraction . © 2013 indexmundi - all rights reservedsilsbee hs lady tigers volleyball on the bee mark mckee is a computer professional .
you can imagine how he felt when he thought he found a rental home on craigslist , only to discover a bunch of scammers had posted it .
with a year left for every eligible tanzanian to get a national identity , dar es salaam region will complete the biometric stage on sunday . & ldquo ; after getting the information we work on it and later the ids are printed and verified by authorities , & rdquo ; she explained .
the verification is meant to ensure that people getting the ids are tanzanian citizens and not illegal immigrants , she said , noting : & ldquo ; for kinondoni district , we will complete the biometric process next week .
but we cannot say when the exercise will start in other regions since it can only do so after the ids for dar es salaam – which is a pilot area – are ready . & rdquo ; the aim was to speed up the issuance of ids to all tanzanian citizens before the general elections in 2015 .
however , the dar es salaam region pilot area has so far taken 11 months to complete the biometric process .
he advised nida to adjust the speed of registering as well as recording people ’ s identification particulars .
strategy , hopes from a new reshuffle daunting na abdallah bawazir however he said the president should now bring in people who can really serve to the end of his term in office .
the purpose of this office is to ensure the smooth and effective operation of the pastoral center officesinservice to the priests , deacons and laity of the diocese .
online abonelike-gazetehoşgeldi̇n 201401 ocak 2014 çarşambaanasayfaekonomifinansdış haberlerpolitikatoplumsektörlerkategori̇lerfinansne , nerede , ne zamangündembi̇k i̇lanlarıdünya ihtdış i̇lişkileremtiai̇şletme-yönetimmevzuatnews in englishgüncelyorum i̇ncelemebölgelerdenözel dosyalarresmi gazetetiger monitorbankacılık sektörübilişimdemir-çelik sektörüenerji sektörügıda sektörühaberleşme sektörühizmetleri̇nşaat sektörükimya-petrokimya sektörümadencilik sektörümağazacılık-perakendecilik sektörümedya sektörüotomotiv sektörüplastik-kauçuk sektörüsanayisavunma sanayiisigortacılık sektörütarım ve hayvancılıktaşımacılık sektörütekstil sektörüturizm sektörü17 : 48 - putinden , gül ve erdoğana yeni yıl mesajı17 : 32 - yılın yazar , fikir insanı ve sanatçıları açıklandı17 : 29 - filistinin prag büyükelçisi hayatını kaybetti17 : 24 - bulgaristanda asgari ücret 340 leva oldu17 : 22 - türkiye , avrupa ’ nın 11. zengini ! 17 : 16 - kuzu paralel devlet twitlerine açıklama getirdi17 : 15 - ötv artışı sektörü kötü etkileyecek16 : 38 - sayıştay tcdd raporu : gerekirse soruşturulsun16 : 03 - resmi burslu öğrencilere yeni yıl sürprizi15 : 54 - fakıbabadan türgeve 3 milyon liralık arsabölgelerdenkop , 4 bölge kentinin kalkınması için çalışıyor yeni pazar ' burundi ' hoşgörü kenti zor günler geçiriyor denizli kaynaklarını birer fırsata çeviriyor bursa 'nın savunma sanayi ilgisi rekabet gücü için osb 'lere ar-ge laboratuvarı kurulmalı kayseri sucuğu almanya yolcusu ajansın hibe desteği trc2 bölgesi 'nde işsizliği geriletebilir çikolata ' treni ' kaçırmayalım para politikaları toplantısı uludavos anadolu 'nun zirvesinde " 1 .
kış zirvesi " anadolu 'nun zirvesinde " 1 .
kış zirvesi " enerji üretimi ve kazalar şiddetin devam ettiği bölgeye ayrı teşvikşiddetin devam ettiği bölgeye ayrı teşvik12345678sonraki sayfa dünya onlinedünya grubu hakkındaonline künyedünya gazetesi künyesiabonelikalışverişrssreklami̇letişimdiğer sitelerimizkobiden.comdunyastore.compcworld.com.trcomputerworld.com.trbyte.com.trdunyagida.com.trdunyainsaat.com.trdünya ekonomi tv hazlitt how can i function in this paralysis ?
how can i vote , how can i support initiatives , how can i engage in debate as a participant rather than a bystander ?
how can i act ?
and is it not ironic that by questioning the disease i reveal its very symptoms ?
the easy answer is to start accepting the easy answers , but to accept that is unconscionable .
because an easy answer is not an answer at all .
i know that .
i get it .
2001 permission to use official state map of wyoming , fr .
jan santich high court to set ruling date on kinana-msigwa defamation suit na karama kenyunko in the suit kinana wants 350m / - for being defamed as compensation damage for being called an elephant poacher by the legislator .
in a written statement of defence filed at the high court ’ s dar es salaam district registry by his advocate peter kibatala , msigwa denied all the claims advanced by the ccm leader .
in the suit , defendant msigwa is alleged to have accused kinana of being an elephant poacher and a criminal dealer in ivory , including illegal transportation and exportation of ivory .
kinana is also seeking orders of the court to direct the mp to publish apologies in two daily english newspapers and two other kiswahili papers and recant the claims involved .
un economic and social commission for asia and the pacific the asia-pacific region is by far the most disaster-prone region in the world .
a multitude world les leçons tirées de la réponse alimentaire en milieu urbain dakar , 26 décembre 2013 ( irin ) - alors que , selon les nations unies , les villes et les municipalités connaissent la croissance démographique la plus importante , les organisations d ’ aide humanitaire adaptent leurs interventions de sécurité alimentaire aux contextes urbains , disposant pour cela d ’ un nombre croissant d ’ outils et d ’ innovations .
cependant , les acteurs de l ’ humanitaire n ’ ont pas encore pris le virage nécessaire pour offrir une réponse urbaine systématique et à grande échelle , indiquent les experts de l ’ aide humanitaire .
world un médicament vital contre l & # 039 ; hépatite c homologué , mais coûteux new york , 26 décembre 2013 ( irin ) - après l 'homologation aux états-unis et en europe d 'un nouveau médicament pour le traitement de l 'hépatite c en décembre , des militants luttent pour que ce traitement soit accessible aux pays pauvres .
cette action rappelle le militantisme qui avait permis de faire baisser les prix des médicaments contre le vih / sida il y a dix ans au brésil , en afrique du sud et en thaïlande .
office of social apostolateplease click here for information on jrlc day on the hill , to be heldfebruary 17 , 2011at rivercenter in st. paul .
‘ la vendimia ’ by francisco orozco saenz was the winner of the 1st wine harvest in the axarquia photo contest .
a panel of judges chose the picture because it shows the “ extreme difficulty ” of the wine harvest in the axarquia area .
‘ la llegada del arriero ’ ( the arrival of the mule driver ) & # 8230 ; mhp leader bahçeli : you need all the detergents available to cleanse away all this filth © 2013 indexmundi - all rights reservedaward-winning video by katie eldredge and hannah read on the bee items that once belonged to pop icon michael jackson are to go on display in the equatorian guinean capital in a pr operation by " teodorin " obiang . ( ... )
the american oil company vaalco has named a new managing director with an untypical ( ... )
" inside llewyn davis " star oscar isaac was a guest on thursday morning 's " today " show when he found out about his golden globe nomination for best actor - musical or comedy .
" i tried to put it out of my head , but definitely being on the show , and the possibility ...
what really happens at the end of ' out of the furnace ' ?
chiwetel ejiofor met j.j. abrams , now rumored for ' star wars ' jake gyllenhaal bombed his audition for ' lord of the rings ' “ this is going to be a large tax cut for the large utilities and telecommunication companies and actually harm everyone else in terms of cuts to services and higher property tax rates , ” blatt says .
the new south looks uncomfortably like the old south , as industry research in the region - a key component of economic and wage growth - lags behind the rest of the country , a new report shows .
andré bourgeot : & bdquo ; l 'opération serval risque de se transformer en guérilla « andré bourgeot , anthropologue , directeur de recherche émérite au cnrs et le président françois hollande est arrivé le 2 février à sévaré pour une visite éclair au mali au cours de laquelle il appellera les pays africains à prendre le relais de la france auprès de l 'armée malienne , après trois semaines " je vais au mali ( ... ) pour dire à nos soldats tout notre soutien , tous nos encouragements , toute notre fierté , ( ... ) pour permettre que les africains viennent le plus vite possible nous rejoindre et leur dire que nous avons besoin slateafrique - l ’ intervention des troupes françaises au mali est-elle de andré bourgeot - rapidement ?
certes pas !
l 'intervention militaire française a d 'une part stoppé l 'avancée des groupes armés djihadistes qui ont tenté de prendre sévaré , où il y a un aéroport international , et d 'autre part libéré l 'objectif est bien de rétablir la paix qui ne sera effective que lors de la reconquête totale de l 'intégrité du territoire national : cela demandera du temps d 'autant que , pour l 'heure , se sont essentiellement les militaires français qui sont en première ligne , avec une armée malienne affaiblie et dont la chaîne de slateafrique - est-ce que l 'enthousiasme des populations que vous avez observé au mali , par rapport à cette intervention , va durer ?
a.b. -globalement , les réactions sont favorables , en effet .
les populations du nord libérées du joug et de la terreur djihadiste reprennent vie et expriment a bamako , des vendeurs de petits drapeaux tricolores s 'activent sur les trottoirs de la capitale et reprennent le commerce informel , tricolore cette fois : les petits drapeaux qui flottent sont même achetés .
pour autant , est-ce maures et arabes ) manifeste son soulagement et sa joie .
ce qui ne veut pas dire que les groupes armés djihadistes ne disposeront pas , le cas échéant , de relais indépendantiste et laïc , connaît un sérieux déclin , depuis quelques semaines .
il s 'est fait d 'abord bouté hors de gao par le mujao ( mouvement pour l 'unicité du jihad en afrique de l 'ouest ) , puis de ménaka toujours par ce même il tente de rebondir en proposant ses services à l 'armée française , arguant du fait suivant : être des combattants aguerris et de bons connaisseurs de la qui ne renvoie à aucun fondement géographique et encore moins historique. sillonné par les pasteurs nomades maures .
berabich représente une superficie de 380 kilomètres carrés environ .
il souffre d 'un important déficit de légitimité & bdquo ; il est peu probable que la reconquête du nord soit rapide « a.b -tout dépend de ce que vous entendez par & bdquo ; nord « ?
si vous y intégrez toute la partie saharienne ( celle des montagnes , des grottes des dunes , des canyons ) ce qui est convenable et conforme au territoire national du mali , alors il est fort peu probable que la reconquête du nord soit rapide .
s 'emparer des villes de tombouctou , gao , kidal est à la portée des militaires .
mais la partie saharienne , stricto sensu sera une & bdquo ; autre paire de manches « : la slateafrique - l 'armée malienne est-elle capable de jouer un rôle dans la que j 'ai évoquées plus haut .
elle est profondément désorganisée voire divisée , mal équipée .
est-elle fermement motivée ?
récemment les militaires maliens ne recevaient même pas la nourriture nécessaire à la satisfaction de leurs besoins slateafrique - le capitaine sanogo conserve-t-il une grande influence dans le a.b. -il brille actuellement par son mutisme .
on dit qu 'il est au front .
l 'intervention militaire française a contribué à reléguer son influence à la périphérie des enjeux politiques , mais il peut ne pas avoir dit son dernier mot .
cette intervention a conforté la position du président par intérim , dioncounda traoré , au moment où des manifestants à bamako réclamaient à cor et à le pouvoir tricéphale , avant le coup de force perpétré par le capitaine sanogo lors de la destitution de l 'ex-premier ministre cheikh modibo diarra , est devenu bicéphale , puis , pour l ’ heure monocéphale , compte tenu du fait que diango cissoko , actuel premier ministre n 'a pas d 'ambition politique , contrairement à son prédécesseur et se positionne comme grand commis de l 'etat .
slateafrique - la france pourra-t-elle longtemps rester seule en première ligne ?
ne risque-t-elle pas d ’ apparaître comme un pays qui mène une opération a.b. -c 'est déjà fait .
une partie de la presse algérienne l 'accuse de nigériens ) d 'impérialisme .
quoi qu 'il en soit , y a-t-il des etats qui tous les etats défendent des intérêts politiques et économiques .
le mali recèle de prometteuses ressources extractives ( pétrole et gaz dans le site de taoudenni à cheval sur la mauritanie , le mali et l 'algérie , de l 'uranium dans manganèse , du phosphate ...
qui serait insensible à ces richesses ?
d 'autant que d 'autres puissances montantes , telle que la chine est réceptive à ces données .
enfin , le niger voisin recèle , lui , des richesses minières monnaie sonnante : areva est une multinationale française et la france a un fort besoin en uranium : slateafrique - l ’ algérie peut-elle accepter une présence de la france à long éradiquer les groupes djihadistes , l 'algérie peu en être satisfaite .
mais ces & bdquo ; fous de dieu « vont se réfugier où ?
dans les pays riverains , donc potentiellement en algérie .
même si celle-ci a décidé de fermer ses frontières .
comment peut-on & bdquo ; fermer « 1.400 km de frontières communes à des groupes expérimentés dans les activités criminelles , les trafics de toute nature ( cocaïne , cannabis , armes , êtres humains , etc . ) qui ont des relais , ou des complicités dans l 'ensemble de l 'espace sahélo-saharien et qui de surcroît flirtent slateafrique - les troupes ouest-africaines sont elles à même de prendre le a.b. -non , je ne le pense pas : il faudra du temps , de l 'organisation , de l 'argent et que le septentrion soit sécurisé : encore du temps ...
slateafrique - les troupes de certains pays africains , notamment le nigeria , sont réputées pour leur grande brutalité avec les populations civiles .
leur entrée dans le conflit ne risque-t-elle pas d ’ entraîner une radicalisation d ’ une a.b. -l 'intervention militaire vise à modifier les rapports de force militaires mais elle ne résout aucun problème politique et elle en pose même ou en posera d 'autres , probablement dans un laps de temps pas très éloigné .
si slateafrique - s ’ ils quittent leurs fiefs du nord-mali , les djihadistes ne risquent-ils pas de se développer des bases dans tous les pays de la région ?
a.b. -oui , ils vont se replier avec armes et bagages nécessaires , par petits groupes dans certains pays riverains où il existe déjà des & bdquo ; structures d 'accueil « .
il n 'est pas impossible que ces déplacements prennent une forme plus citadine et se manifestent donc dans des villes où des intérêts français sont bien connus et slateafrique - des pays comme le sénégal ou le burkina faso ne risquent-ils a.b. -sans doute moins que le niger et la mauritanie , mais le & bdquo ; moins « dans le slateafrique - si les troupes françaises et africaines parviennent à reprendre le contrôle du nord , sera-t-il possible d ’ organiser rapidement des a.b. -que faut-il entendre par contrôle du nord ?
quid des populations déplacées estimées à environ 200.000 et réfugiées dont le chiffre de 450.000 est je n 'imagine pas que des élections puissent se tenir au vu d 'une seule reconquête militaire des régions du nord du mali .
sauf si l 'on veut des élections bradées , faussement démocratiques qui ne feront que reposer de bien plus graves problèmes : la démocratie , si elle a un sens , ne souffre pas de bricolage ou de conception artisanale , laxiste , et frivole du politique : les © 2013 indexmundi - all rights reservedsmalltownpapers - the hansford county reporter-statesman , spearman texas to indicate the magnitude of the problem , there are 29 roadblocks between dar es salaam and the zambian boarder .
the cost associated with the inefficiency of dar es salaam port is estimated to reach a value in excess of seven per cent of national gdp .
the fiscal adjustment planned by the government can be justified as a means to maintain tanzania ’ s current risk of debt distress at low level .
compared to the recent past , the initial fiscal deficit has deteriorated and the level of public debt has increased to a value in excess of 40 per cent of gdp at the end of 2012 / 2013.with a higher promotion of non concessional loans .
2014 is shaping up to be a pivotal year for the progressive movement in the united states .
it may determine whether the discredited neo-cons that brought us the iraq war are allowed to drag us into yet another war in the middle east .
the report of the president 's commission on surveillance is a good place to start .
to end mass incarceration requires first and foremost that we end the failed " war on drugs " .
listen to your mother : stand up straight : how progressives can win " what should i do in this case ? " asked the judge , according to the claims by the former justice minister .
he went on to say that gülen had allegedly told the judge to do what justice requires .
albayrak rejected the allegations and denied any contact between gülen and the judge .
sakine cansız , fidan doğan and leyla söylemez were discovered dead in the building in paris . ’ why didn 't şahin start an investigation while he was minister ? '
according to akyol , since the hsyk back then was against the hizmet movement and was not conservative , it could have removed that judge who is claimed to be the & ldquo ; imam of the hizmet movement in the judiciary . & rdquo ; akyol also said the hysk was established in 2010 in an effort to bring turkey 's legal system in line with europe 's .
fews mise à jour sur la sécurité alimentaire novembre 2013 fr / en as the year 2013 draws to a close , the gpei takes stock : • à la suite des récents combats qui ont éclaté le 5 décembre 2013 , plus de 370 000 personnes ont été nouvellement déplacées aux alentours de bangui , la capitale de la république centrafricaine ( rca ) et jusqu 'à 50 000 personnes près de bossangoa .
selon ocha , le nombre de déplacés internes dans le pays s ’ élève maintenant plus de 600 000 .
central african republic + 1 other population déplacée ou en fuite , bangui dévastée par des semaines de violences bangui , 29 décembre 2013 ( afp ) - familles massées autour de l 'aéroport pour se placer sous la protection des soldats français , civils tchadiens qui fuient sous les menaces : bangui , malgré l 'absence de tirs dimanche , présente le visage d 'une ville dévastée par des semaines de violences meurtrières .
central african republic + 1 other des tchadiens rentrés à n & # 039 ; djamena racontent des journées d & # 039 ; horreurs à bangui n 'djamena , 29 décembre 2013 ( afp ) - " ils sont venus tuer mon mari devant sa boutique qu 'ils ont pillée ensuite .
je suis née en centrafrique , je ne connais personne au tchad .
je vais faire comment ? " , désespérée mariam moussa , 40 ans , évacuée sur n 'djamena par l 'armée tchadienne témoigne des journées d 'horreurs à bangui .
french peacekeepers kept the protesters at a distance from the convoy as the chadians jostled to cram their personal belongings into the cars .
bangui , 28 décembre 2013 ( afp ) - happés par la spirale des tueries intercommunautaires , les très nombreux tchadiens installés en centrafrique retournent désormais en masse dans leur pays , un exode marquant un nouveau palier dans le déchirement de la société centrafricaine .
chad + 1 other revue de presse humanitaire au tchad du 20 au 26 décembre 2013 · rca : les ressortissants tchadiens ont commencé à être évacués ( rfi , 23 / 12 / 13 ) · tchad : la centrafrique au cœur des discussions entre idriss déby et samantha power ( rfi , 21 / 12 / 13 ) · déclaration au terme d ’ une mission des services du fmi au tchad ( fmi , 27 / 12 / 13 ) · comment favoriser l ’ autonomie des ong locales ?
( irin , 23 / 12 / 13 ) for troops , commissaries are still a valued benefit mon dec 30 , 2013 05 : 14 am est diabetes workshop set for jan .
4 at cabrini hospital in alexandria mon dec 30 , 2013 05 : 14 am est here are fips to get kids excited about science mon dec 30 , 2013 05 : 14 am est dwi checkpoints up in ebr , along with funding mon dec 30 , 2013 9 : 14 pm est policing issue remains a murky one for sorrento mon dec 30 , 2013 9 : 14 pm est neighbor treated for smoke inhalation mon dec 30 , 2013 9 : 14 pm est 2013 : a year in review sun dec 29 , 2013 07 : 14 am est hot sauce bet arrives in n.h. sun dec 29 , 2013 07 : 14 am est resolution run starts new year fri dec 27 , 2013 11 : 14 am est work begins on roundabout tue dec 24 , 2013 09 : 14 am est doctors group donates to inmates mon dec 30 , 2013 3 : 14 pm est sonnier dies in prison fri dec 27 , 2013 3 : 14 pm est bunk johnson makeover thu dec 26 , 2013 3 : 14 pm est jpso will pay taxi fare for those too drunk to drive on new year 's eve mon dec 30 , 2013 9 : 14 pm est lawtell man gets the cart behind the horse mon dec 30 , 2013 05 : 14 am est what ’ s your view of louisiana ?
mon dec 30 , 2013 05 : 14 am est ul ’ s veal shines in 58-45 win mon dec 30 , 2013 05 : 14 am est cajuns hoping to get defensive mon dec 30 , 2013 05 : 14 am est new laws in 2014 around the country take on tanning bed bans , ’ lemon pets ’ mon dec 30 , 2013 05 : 14 am est marines , firefighters to the rescue mon dec 30 , 2013 7 : 14 pm est barksdale gears up for christmas , new year ’ s mon dec 30 , 2013 7 : 14 pm est honda vfr 400cc in konica / minolta colours remolded in thailand tyres and new single or twin yoshimura can .
all bikes on this page were made in chiangmai by a thai owned shop .
you will see how the thais can make superb bikes .
check also pics of the pattaya bike week on choppers .
[ uk manufacturer who makes lightweight parts for all vfrs and cbrs your free classified ad now [ post ad ] promote your company in asia exports ] if you want to come to sunscreen / lipbalm : antarctica is the driest and sunniest continent on earth binoculars : you may not get close enough to pet the wildlife sinkhole swallows truck mon dec 30 , 2013 10 : 11 pm est kona man starts triathlon school mon dec 30 , 2013 2 : 11 pm est new kona preschool offers keiki a place to thrive mon dec 30 , 2013 2 : 11 pm est floor decor honored mon dec 30 , 2013 2 : 11 pm est parole denied for metcalfe mon dec 30 , 2013 2 : 11 pm est first wind ’ s kahuku wind farm still not back up to speed mon dec 30 , 2013 8 : 11 pm est walgreens plans to open waipahu store in early 2015 mon dec 30 , 2013 6 : 11 pm est disney ’ s newest star wins hearts and stomachs sat dec 28 , 2013 08 : 11 am est beached whale is euthanized fri dec 27 , 2013 08 : 11 am est hiker helped after he injured his leg mon dec 30 , 2013 12 : 11 pm est high-surf warning for maui , molokai mon dec 30 , 2013 12 : 11 pm est ’ above and beyond ’ mon dec 30 , 2013 12 : 11 pm est ready to make a splash mon dec 30 , 2013 6 : 11 pm est radosław kaźmierczak photography http : / / www.radoslawkazmierczak.com w 2010 roku zostałem zaproszony przez konsula rp w algierze do reprezentowania polski w p ...
le challenge # 02 de la course de préparation à " we run algiers 2013 " avec amel zen et farida aït kaci sur dzair tv , emission " system dz " pepe is a notorious thief who has escaped from france and hides in the casbah of algiers .
the french officials are after him , but he is protected by the loca ...
alger - algiers - 阿爾及爾 - مدينة الجزائر ‎ .
voir sur ma chaine d 'autres vidéos d 'alger entre 1896 et 1970. la musique du chef d 'œuvre italo-algérien la bataille d 'alger composé par le maitre ennio morricone .
mehdieval .
the arrival of maradona in algiers / l 'arrivé de maradona a alger algeria | street scenes in the algiers ' historic casbah | algerie challenge # 02 " we run algiers 2013 " avec amel zen et farida ait kaci sur dzair tv how derry 's year as uk city of culture reawakened the voice of idealism called el-behdja ( البهجة ) or alternatively alger la blanche ( " algiers the white " ) for the glistening white of its buildings as seen rising up from the sea , algiers is situated on the west side of a bay of the mediterranean sea .
the modern part of the city is built on the level ground by the seashore ; the old part , the ancient city of the deys , climbs the steep hill behind the modern town and is crowned by the casbah or citadel , 122 metres ( 400 ft ) above the sea .
the casbah and the two quays form a triangle .
the ultimate guide for all those determined to put their new please select the areas you may be interested in from the if you would like further information on how you could feature in home vitrina cu cărți românia post 1989 & # 8211 ; catherine durandin şi zoe petre posted by cezar dobre on apr 5th , 2011 / / comments off prima parte a volumului intitulat „ o eliberare dificilă ” ne arată că în primele momente după căderea regimurilor comuniste în europa de est , numeroşi analişti au impus termenul „ tranziţie ” ca şi cum punctul de plecare şi cel de sosire ar fi fost perfect cunoscute .
aceste borne simbolice erau întunecate în punctul de plecare apăsate de crimele comunismului , dar luminoase în perspectiva unei sosiri presupuse într-o lume liberă şi prosperă .
doamna catherine durandin impresionează pentru faptul că , pe lângă o cunoaştere aprofundată a realităţilor istorice ale poporului nostru , a dat dovadă de o mare atenţie şi sensibilitate atunci când a pus problema procesului de integrare în nato şi uniunea europeană .
dacă procesul integrării a pus mai puţine probleme şi datorită maşinii de putere americane care a funcţionat sprijinită de propriul „ think-tank ” , procesul de integrare în ue este mai complex şi aceasta datorită faptului că românia este o ţară europeană şi se poate irita numai la faptul că trebuie să demonstreze acest lucru în faţa comisiei europene .
în capitolele următoare ale cărţii , doamna zoe petre , o excepţională cunoscătoare a lumii antice , dar și a istoriei poporului român , remarca cu privire la distrugerea simbolurilor puterii comuniste în decembrie 1989 că lozinca „ jos comunismul ” este greu de crezut că a fost o provocare a kgb-ului – care , logic , nu putea adopta un astfel de slogan .
dacă nu a fost prima , cel puţin a fost printre primii analişti care a prezentat cu adevărat o realitate dureroasă pentru noi românii , mai ales pentru o anumită categorie de români , vizavi de evenimentele din decembrie 1989 când șefii securității au decis pe tăcute să adopte pe cât posibil politica struţului şi să lase în seama armatei şi eventual a gărzilor patriotice sarcina de a se „ sacrifica pentru salvarea regimului ceaușist ” .
un profesor de valoarea doamnei zoe petre nu putea să nu pună adevărul istoric în faţa legendei armatei devotate poporului , de asemenea a făcut o distincţie clară între instituţia „ odioasă a securităţii ” şi activitatea cadrelor acesteia , în timpul revoluţiei din decembrie , şi ceea ce este cel mai dureros pentru unii care au participat la conducerea țării în anii ‘ 90 este faptul că atât ion iliescu , cât şi cei din anturajul lui ştiau prea bine că „ teroriştii ” sunt o ficţiune criminală si un „ spectacol regizat ” .
evenimentele care au urmat : martie 1990 , târgu mureş , când regimul lui ion iliescu îşi asuma deschis tezele naţional-comunismului , şi piaţa universităţii , iunie 1991 , au dus la netezirea drumului cdr care în final l-a propulsat pe preşedintele emil constantinescu care a adus prima alternanţă democratică la putere după 60 de ani .
indiferent de dificultăţile deseori insurmontabile ale legiferării , preşedintele emil constantinescu a fost primul şef de stat român care a condamnat comunismul , a cerut iertare în numele statului pe care îl reprezenta atunci tuturor victimelor represiunii anticomuniste cerând parlamentului româniei să adopte măsurile reparatorii necesare care decurgeau din această condamnare .
administraţia constantinescu a fost cea care a pus bazele integrării europene şi euroatlantice a româniei , iar politica de bună vecinătate a fost exprimată în discursul domniei sale în 2 decembrie 1996 la reuniunea la vârf a osce de la lisabona şi s-a situat pe parcursul întregului său mandat într-o logică a complementarităţii faţă de politicile de aderare la uniunea europeană şi integrare euroatlantică .
din nefericire , sublinia doamna zoe petre , refuzând să accepte faptul ca victoria din 1996 fusese decisivă , dar parţială , şi nu un triumf absolut , nucleul dur al partizanilor cdr nerăbdător şi radical , s-a desprins repede de realităţile unei puteri care era obligată să negocieze fiecare pas spre reformă , mai mult „ trădarea iubită ” de unii politicieni din cadrul convenţiei democratice , care au dus în secret tratative cu psd – ne referim aici concret la pnl – , au dat lovitura de graţie cdr-ului .
cu toate acestea , procesul de democratizare a devenit astfel ireversibil şi înfrângerea partidelor din fosta convenţie democratică nu a mai putut să schimbe radical victoriile dobândite în cei patru ani de guvernare democratică a româniei .
în perfect acord cu doamna catherine durandin , care este fără niciun dubiu istoricul francez cel mai informat cu privire la românia pe care o cunoaşte foarte bine şi o iubeşte cu inteligenţă şi pasiune , doamna zoe petre , cu un discernământ critic , deseori amar , nu numai că refuză să inventeze „ o idilă ” despre revoluţie , cum sunt multe cărţi apărute pe piaţă , ci scoate tema excepţiei româneşti din categoria fatalităţilor istorice obiective şi o înscrie în istoria concretă a postcomunismului .
next the vision of aurelio peccei and its implications for our future © 2011 cadran politic · rss · designed by theme junkie · powered by wordpress世界新聞網- 美食情報站 the crew of hmas tobruk was on a routine mission in the pacific when the call for help came from the cyclone-devastated philippines . ( 12 / 21 / 2013 12 : 29 : 48 am ) freshly reinstalled on his reality tv show , “ duck dynasty ” patriarch phil robertson is facing a new controversy over an old video of him espousing more redneck wisdom .
in the 2009 footage that surfaced on youtube , the politically incorrect voice of the bayou ...
reversals made by a & e , cracker barrel in " duck dynasty " decisions want me to be a priest , then have me pass . ’ are st. ann in butte , st. rose of lima in home .
he is an avid hiker and can talk in food for people who are poor , as well as for at a seminary in ohio , and had to return to he would get back on the path to a religious online : [ add my company ] insert your pic of your country via computer then you can and the receiver will not be billed .
unfortunately thailand is not on the mtns system as only companies however you can send out of thailand direct to the mobile number in seconds . [ & asia trading post co ltd by way of contract .
all breaches of our copyright will be deemed an infringement on the copyrights of this pope francis on his way to attend the via crucis during world youth day celebrations in july in rio de janeiro .
" in the one long sit-down that i had with him , the holy father told me that he has a lot of gratitude for the generosity of the catholic church in the united states .
he 's aware of our help to the missions , to the poor of the world , to international development , to peace and ... justice , " he said .
" so , i know that he 's very grateful for the ... legendary generosity of the catholic church in the united states . "
langone said he is also on a campaign to explain " the vast difference between the pope 's experience in argentina and how we are in america . "
dolan calls the marxist label " hyperbole , " telling cnbc that the pope thinks " money in itself is morally neutral .
money , our wealth , is a gift from god .
and the morality comes in the way we use it .
" if it becomes a god , if it becomes an idol , pope francis is saying , then it 's wrong .
because there is only one god .
if we use it for our own selves and our families , for a secure and a safe present and future , if we use it to reinvest in the community , to help others , and if we share with the poor , then it 's morally good , " dolan said . — by cnbc 's michelle caruso-cabrera .
follow her on twitter newseconomyfinancehealth carereal estateretailwealthautosearningsenergymediapoliticscommentaryspecial reportsasiaeuropemarketspre-marketsu.s.asiaeuropestockscommoditiescurrenciesbondsfundsetfsinvestingfinancial advisorspersonal financecnbc explainsportfoliowatchliststock screenerfund screenertechmobilesocial mediaenterprisegamingcybersecuritysmall businessfranchisingfinancingmanagementvideolatest videodigital workshopu.s. videoasia videoeurope videoceo interviewsanalyst interviewsfull episodesclosed captioningshowswatch livecnbc u.s.cnbc asia-pacificcnbc europecnbc worldfull episodescnbcabout cnbcsite mapvideo reprintsadvertisecareershelpcontactprivacy policyterms of serviceindependent programming reportlatest news releasesrsscertain market data provided by thomson reutersdata also provided bydata is a real-time snapshot * data is delayed at least 15 minutesglobal business and financial news , stock quotes , and market data and analysis © 2014 cnbc llc . all rights reserved.a division of nbcuniversal nigeria : exclusive news about nigeria with africa intelligence cash-rich and determined to develop in the upstream , glencore has elbowed its way into the sale of assets by western majors in nigeria . ( ... )
the nigerian trader benedict peters is in the running to buy several of shell ’ s licences . ( ... )
flaunting his title as king of nembe , a former oil adviser to olusegun obasanjo is trying to buy an oil field from shell that lies on his community ’ s territory . ( ... )
the nigerian oil company has postponed a listing on the stock exchange in the hope of buying some of chevon ’ s assets in the niger delta . ( ... )
chevron has once again put back the deadline and examination of bids for its stakes in two onshore licenses . ( ... )
relatively discreet since he left the post of nigeria ’ s oil minister in 2010 , rilwanu ( ... )
bujumbura - a burundian court opened the trial friday of a " we argued that the arrest of our client was arbitrary and we called for his temporary release .
the court adjourned for consultation , " on july 12 , a day after the kampala bombings , he wrote that two-third of americans own a smartphone , and the holdouts may find that no one wants their old handsets .
venture capitalists are always looking for the next big thing .
and the competition is intense to get a piece of the hottest start-ups in silicon valley .
it may sound a little bit futuristic and far-fetched , but the reality is that ingestible sensors and implantable chips are already in use .
newseconomyfinancehealth carereal estateretailwealthautosearningsenergymediapoliticscommentaryspecial reportsasiaeuropemarketspre-marketsu.s.asiaeuropestockscommoditiescurrenciesbondsfundsetfsinvestingfinancial advisorspersonal financecnbc explainsportfoliowatchliststock screenerfund screenertechmobilesocial mediaenterprisegamingcybersecuritysmall businessfranchisingfinancingmanagementvideolatest videodigital workshopu.s. videoasia videoeurope videoceo interviewsanalyst interviewsfull episodesclosed captioningshowswatch livecnbc u.s.cnbc asia-pacificcnbc europecnbc worldfull episodescnbcabout cnbcsite mapvideo reprintsadvertisecareershelpcontactprivacy policyterms of serviceindependent programming reportlatest news releasesrsscertain market data provided by thomson reutersdata also provided bydata is a real-time snapshot * data is delayed at least 15 minutesglobal business and financial news , stock quotes , and market data and analysis © 2014 cnbc llc . all rights reserved.a division of nbcuniversalthe montana catholic : giving inheritance to church , retiree says all gifts come from god ( june 21 , 2013 ) has said he has no heirs who need part of top storiesnews near youindiaworldbusinesstechnologyentertainmentsportssciencehealthmore top storiesspotlighttop storiesnews near youindiaworldbusinesstechnologyentertainmentsportssciencehealthmore top storiesspotlightpakistanibnlivesee realtime coverageas it happened : pakistan vs sri lanka , 1st test , day 2ibnlive- & lrm ; 5 hours ago & lrm ; pakistan were 46 for 1 at stumps with debutant ahmed shehzad unbeaten on 25 as khurram manzoor was run out in the last over.related sri lanka national cricket team pakistan 's new ambassador to us assumes chargetimes of indiapakistan 's new envoy jalil abbas jilani to us says will bolster tieseconomic timessee all 32 sourcesrelated united states of america j 'ai récemment écrit un post sur " les 11 différences entre sortir avec un garçon et avec un homme " .
si on faisait la même chose avec femme et fille , beaucoup de ces remarques seraient encore valables .
cependant , on ne peut pas nier qu 'il y ait quelques différences fondamentales entre ...
san francisco has always been one of my favorite places to visit .
the charming city is known to be one of the food capitals of the world , and for good reason .
here are my recommends on where to eat and stay : eat : b. patisserie $ opened earlier this ...
j 'ai soufflé une bougie de plus récemment .
je constate que le temps passe vite , et je suis chaque fois ébahie par les nombreux changements qui peuvent survenir au cours d 'une seule et même année .
lorsque des événements inattendus perturbent notre équilibre , il se peut que nous vivions un « cycle ...
les 11 différences entre sortir avec une fille et une femme a weekend in san francisco - where to eat and stay huit leçons de vie qu 'on gagne à apprendre avec le temps deepak chopra enlightens vancouverites at launch of the chopra yoga center are you beautiful on the inside or only the outside ?
letter to a friend : how to get over a breakup after a breakup , the home is where the heart is after a breakup , seeing the light at the end of the tunnel i left my heart in san francisco : where to eat , stay and play in san francisco and napa valley working it out vs .
tossing it out : persevering through relationship ups and downs how so-called " sexual liberation " can result in low self-esteem and confusion cut off from the ocean by the annamite range with rolling mountains that stretch as far as the eye can see , life has always happened at a languid pace in laos .
while stunningly beautiful , the mounta ..... ( 12 / 29 / 2013 12 : 05 : 42 pm ) ewura director general haruna masebu said the report identified water loss as a challenge facing all water firms but dawasco is at its worst .
president paul kagame of rwanda is encouraging his kenyan counterpart uhuru kenyatta not to go to the international criminal court ( icc ) in the hague for his trial which is due to ( ... )
italian engineer giuseppe ciccarelli is fast becoming a man to be reckoned with ( ... )
in north carolina , mccrory will succeed a governor , democrat bev perdue , who narrowly beat him for the job four years ago .
perdue chose not to run for a second term , after a string of controversies dogged mexico , jan brewer of arizona and mary fallin of oklahoma . )
" mystical body mystical voice " - catechesis programassension press : " a biblical walk through the mass " " praying the mass " by jeffrey pinyan history as iita researchers grow ' seed yams in the air ' na correspondent however , growing yam on aeroponics is a novelty for rapidly multiplying the much-needed clean seed yam tubers in large quantities .
the developing roots of the plants in the air were meanwhile enclosed in conditions of total darkness to simulate the situation of soil to the roots .
but now the old men are wheeling out their churro carts and little girls are prancing in sequined virgin mary capes .
the priest has swept his hair back for the occasion , his vestments white as teeth .
nissan pickups are decked out with plastic flowers .
shiny-suit musicians are testing their clarinets .
although he is nearing 65 , helder josé bataglia dos santos , a portuguese businessman ( ... )
if you are interested in becoming more involved in the mission of cchd orlearning more , please contact patrice at 218-724-9111 or pcritchley @ dioceseduluth.org.
missing soldier returns homefamily displaced in kountze fireandrea whitney , reportercouncil backs off on edc proposaldaniel elizondo , editoraggravated robbery suspect arrestedandrea whitney , reporter top storiesnews near youindiaworldbusinesstechnologyentertainmentsportssciencehealthmore top storiesspotlighttop storiesnews near youindiaworldbusinesstechnologyentertainmentsportssciencehealthmore top storiesspotlightindiahindustan timessee realtime coverageindia cancels scandal-hit agustawestland chopper dealtimes of india7 hours agowritten byrajat panditnew delhi : india on wednesday finally cancelled the controversial rs 3,546 crore contract for 12 vvip helicopters inked with agustawestland in february 2010 , which has been enmeshed in allegations of huge kickbacks for over an year now.india scraps agustawestland helicopter deal , agrees to arbitrationreuters indiavvip chopper scam : india scraps rs 3600-crore deal with agustawestlandndtvin-depth : india cancels € 560m agustawestland helicopter orderfinancial timessee all 123 sourcesrelated : agustawestland ishwar pandey gets maiden india test call-upespncricinfo.comstuart binny may be answer to india 's odi prayerstimes of indiasee all 133 sourcesrelated yuvraj singh of privacy and our company will act accordingly .
see faqsburundi réalités des milliers d ’ opposants ont encore protesté dimanche à bangkok pour amener le premier ministre yingluck shinawatra à quitter le pouvoir avant l ’ élection de shinawatra a décidé d ’ anticiper les élections pour les tenir le 2 février , elle déclare vouloir empêcher le premier ministre de renouveler son mandat et de perpétuer l ’ influence de son frère thaksin vivant en exil volontaire .
yingluck shinawatra , qui est accusée de diriger la thaïlande suivant les ordres de son frère thaksin , ancien premier ministre du pays , exilé depuis son éviction " je déteste yingluck et souhaite me débarrasser d ’ elle , parce qu ’ elle travaille pour son frère , pas pour le peuple thaïlandais " , a dit à reuters l ’ un " le gouvernement est prêt à dissoudre le parlement si la majorité le veut " , a " si les manifestants ou un important parti politique n 'accepte pas cela ou n 'accepte pas les résultats des élections , cela ne fera que prolonger le conflit " , le chef de la mobilisation contre yingluck shinawatra déclare avoir exigé dimanche la démission de la première ministre thaïlandaise , avant l 'ouverture m. thangsuban affirme avoir rencontré mme shinawatra , grâce à l 'armée .
des milliers de manifestants se sont rassemblés dimanche à bangkok , la capitale de ils ont encerclé des bâtiments de l ’ administration publique , des stations de télévision et le quartier de la police .
des soldats non armés ont été mobilisés pour renforcer la police anti-émeute , qui a fait usage de gaz lacrymogènes et de m. thangsuban a lancé un mot d ’ ordre de grève générale pour la journée de gouverner le pays suivant les ordres de son frère thaksin vivant en exil à au moins deux personnes auraient été tuées samedi lors des affrontements entre partisans du régime et des militants de l ’ opposition et de la société la mobilisation dirigée contre le régime de yingluck shinawatra est entrée yingluck shinawatra est populaire auprès des électeurs ruraux , tandis que ses opposants sont plus appréciés des classes moyennes et des électeurs urbains .
le porte-parole de la police nationale a annoncé que 2.730 éléments de la marine et des forces aériennes seront déployés sur les lieux où se tiennent les burundi réalités ( c ) 2006 all rights reserved emil constantinescu a primit premiul de excelență la conferința anuală a institutului de diplomație culturală | cadran politic home eveniment emil constantinescu a primit premiul de excelență la conferința anuală a institutului de diplomație culturală președintele emil constantinescu a primit premiul de excelență pentru activitatea de o viață în domeniul diplomației cultural , la conferința anuală a institutului de diplomație culturală din berlin din 17-22 decembrie 2013 .
conferinţa anuală a institutului de diplomaţie culturală din berlin ( icd ) care se desfăşoară în capitala germaniei în perioada 17-22 decembrie 2013 , având ca temă “ cooperarea transcontinentală – poduri pentru o comunitate globală unită ” şi la care participă peste o sută de personalităţi politice şi academice din întreaga lume , a programat în seara zilei de 19 decembrie ceremonia de acordare a “ premiului de excelenţă pentru activitatea de o viaţă în domeniul diplomaţiei culturale ” profesorului emil constantinescu , preşedintele academiei de diplomaţie culturală .
în diploma care i-a fost decernată cu acest prilej este menţionată înalta admiraţie pentru contribuţia de preeminent avocat al păcii de-a lungul unei ilustre cariere care a avut un profund impact asupra comunităţii globale prin promovarea valorilor morale şi a dialogului între culturi şi religii .
cu această ocazie , preşedintelui constantinescu i-a fost decernat şi trofeul “ pace prin cultură şi educaţie ” .
trofeul este o sculptură din cupru , realizată de un tânăr artist plastic român , cristian răduţă , reprezentând un sul de papyrus pe care este marcată harta lumii .
diploma şi trofeul i-au fost înmânate de către e.s. francesco rutelli , fost viceprim-ministru al italiei , preşedintele boardului “ institutului de diplomaţie culturală ” din berlin , şi de mark donfried , directorul icd .
dr. petru lucinschi , preşedintele moldovei ( 1996-2000 ) , prof. dr .
arnold ruutel , preşedintele estoniei ( 2000-2004 ) şi prof. dr .
mircea dumitru , rectorul universităţii din bucureşti au prezentat câte o laudatio în care au elogiat activitatea laureatului premiului “ pace prin cultură şi educaţie & # 8211 ; 2013 ” .
după laudatio , oana lianu , o tânără artistă din românia , a interpretat vocal şi la nai fragmente din “ rapsodia română ” a lui george enescu şi a fost proiectat un film dedicat activităţii preşedintelui emil constantinescu , realizat de echipa icd. the two dioceses .
bishop brookhart acted as officiant for the service , which featured music by musikanten montana , a choral ensemble in helena , and bishop thomas was the homilist eternal reunite for new series of the big reunion without louise redknapp eternal are reforming for the big reunion but louise redknapp is nowhere to be seen . ( 12 / 27 / 2013 8 : 08 : 08 am ) homelatest newscosta blanca newscosta levante newsclassifiedscosta almeria newscosta del sol newsspanish national newsbritish scenecork talkinside spainmed tv guideliving in spainyellow pagespropertyphoto gallery 12 / 31 / 2013 vaticanpope : a year that ends is one more step toward the hope of meeting godat the te deum of thanksgiving pope francis reflects on the christian vision of the passage of time . "
let us ask ourselves : how have we lived this time that he has given us ?
have we used it mainly for ourselves , for our own interests or have we also spent it for others ?
and god ? " .
the " contrasts " that exist in the city of rome.12 / 31 / 2013 chinathe myth and the lies of mao zedong still oppress chinaby bao tongthe great statesman deflates the rhetoric surrounding the figure of the great helmsman revealing his crimes and the pursuit of world supremacy at all costs .
the millions of deaths in the great leap forward and the blood spilled by the cultural revolution , the oppression of intellectuals , the ban on peasants ’ possession of land , and on trade unions for the workers .
the myth of mao resists and is supported by the current leadership because it guarantees absolute power .
the painful and ruthless analysis of bao tong , a former collaborator of zhao ziyang , for years in prison and under house arrest for having sided against the tiananmen massacre.12 / 30 / 2013 chinaxinjiang authorities try to force six women to abort for violating one-child policydespite beijing 's announced reforms , the authorities continue to abuse women in the name of family planning .
one woman managed to escape , whilst the others received or will receive treatment .
" my son was crying when he was born , " one man said , but " the abortion drug [ . . . ] had already been injected " and he " died an hour after he was born . "
local authorities confirm the facts.12 / 30 / 2013 koreaarchbishop of seoul : in new year we pray for north koreain his message for the new year , msgr. andrew yeom soo- jung invites korean catholics to put aside " greed and selfishness " to find that " a life lived in love is the key to happiness .
we should all follow the example of the holy family . "
the lack of inflation is a key issue as it has been accompanied by a collapse in nominal gross domestic product growth , he said .
the fourth challenge for asia in the new year is with its politics .
the problem of us underemployment may lessen in 2014 , with better quality , higher-paying jobs on the market .
newseconomyfinancehealth carereal estateretailwealthautosearningsenergymediapoliticscommentaryspecial reportsasiaeuropemarketspre-marketsu.s.asiaeuropestockscommoditiescurrenciesbondsfundsetfsinvestingfinancial advisorspersonal financecnbc explainsportfoliowatchliststock screenerfund screenertechmobilesocial mediaenterprisegamingcybersecuritysmall businessfranchisingfinancingmanagementvideolatest videodigital workshopu.s. videoasia videoeurope videoceo interviewsanalyst interviewsfull episodesclosed captioningshowswatch livecnbc u.s.cnbc asia-pacificcnbc europecnbc worldfull episodescnbcabout cnbcsite mapvideo reprintsadvertisecareershelpcontactprivacy policyterms of serviceindependent programming reportlatest news releasesrsscertain market data provided by thomson reutersdata also provided bydata is a real-time snapshot * data is delayed at least 15 minutesglobal business and financial news , stock quotes , and market data and analysis © 2014 cnbc llc . all rights reserved.a division of nbcuniversalsilsbee high school homecoming parade 2010 on the bee michigan deq could set higher standards for dioxane pollution cleanup in 2014 mon dec 30 , 2013 2 : 16 pm est up next for on deck ?
unknown mon dec 30 , 2013 6 : 16 pm est remember a vet mon dec 30 , 2013 6 : 16 pm est escaped parolee still at large was up for release in april mon dec 30 , 2013 6 : 16 pm est what now for heidelberg , as it battles fires and tax problems ?
sun dec 29 , 2013 10 : 16 am est owner killed in farmington hills party store remembered as a ’ good guy ’ sun dec 29 , 2013 4 : 16 pm est city of detroit mon dec 30 , 2013 04 : 16 am est southfield apartment tenants get gas shut-off notices fri dec 27 , 2013 4 : 16 pm est police accuse waterford twp. motorist of pointing gun at a truck driver tue mar 26 , 2013 10 : 16 pm edt detroit area ’ s year in review : down but not out in 2013 sun dec 29 , 2013 10 : 16 pm est kirk herbstreit likes msu ’ s ability to ’ come out swinging ’ ; michigan is a mystery mon dec 30 , 2013 8 : 16 pm est mich. seeing uptick in flu cases mon dec 30 , 2013 8 : 16 pm est lions fire jim schwartz ; ’ we ’ re trying to get to another level , ’ mayhew says mon dec 30 , 2013 6 : 16 pm est prisoner who escaped correctional facility was to be released in april mon dec 30 , 2013 2 : 16 pm est shrine ’ s monsignor easton has died mon dec 30 , 2013 2 : 16 pm est man arrested in flint on charges he assaulted his grandmother mon dec 30 , 2013 10 : 16 pm est man arrested in flint on suspicion he impersonated federal agent mon dec 30 , 2013 8 : 16 pm est angry , frustrated customers censure lansing bwl at city council meeting on ice storm outages mon dec 30 , 2013 8 : 16 pm est outage numbers down to 700 ; bwl expects full restoration by end of tuesday mon dec 30 , 2013 10 : 16 pm est ticketed for parking in the street ?
east lansing to suspend overnight parking tickets in powerless neighborhoods mon dec 30 , 2013 6 : 16 pm est lansing man charged in attempted theft of generator mon dec 30 , 2013 6 : 16 pm est officials express hope to end new year ’ s gunfire mon dec 30 , 2013 6 : 16 pm est outage numbers down to 800 ; bwl expects full restoration by end of tuesday mon dec 30 , 2013 2 : 16 pm est former pontiac silverdome director dies in car accident ; ’ he will be sorely missed ’ mon dec 30 , 2013 6 : 16 pm est choices abound for new year ’ s eve revelers mon dec 30 , 2013 4 : 16 pm est new year brings submission at the ringwald mon dec 30 , 2013 4 : 16 pm est what ’ s on your wish list for bay and saginaw counties in 2014 ?
mon dec 30 , 2013 4 : 16 pm est pcs.production.1.20131122.1458 ( pewsuwvmwapp01 ) award-winning video by katie eldredge and hannah read on the bee poland shocked canada 2-0 at the hopman cup in perth , as grzegorz panfil toppled world no.11 milos raonic . ( 12 / 29 / 2013 1 : 54 : 57 pm ) samir brikho , ceo of amec , says the company is reducing its level of dependency on oil and gas through renewable energy projects , especially in the u.s. newseconomyfinancehealth carereal estateretailwealthautosearningsenergymediapoliticscommentaryspecial reportsasiaeuropemarketspre-marketsu.s.asiaeuropestockscommoditiescurrenciesbondsfundsetfsinvestingfinancial advisorspersonal financecnbc explainsportfoliowatchliststock screenerfund screenertechmobilesocial mediaenterprisegamingcybersecuritysmall businessfranchisingfinancingmanagementvideolatest videodigital workshopu.s. videoasia videoeurope videoceo interviewsanalyst interviewsfull episodesclosed captioningshowswatch livecnbc u.s.cnbc asia-pacificcnbc europecnbc worldfull episodescnbcabout cnbcsite mapvideo reprintsadvertisecareershelpcontactprivacy policyterms of serviceindependent programming reportlatest news releasesrsscertain market data provided by thomson reutersdata also provided bydata is a real-time snapshot * data is delayed at least 15 minutesglobal business and financial news , stock quotes , and market data and analysis © 2014 cnbc llc . all rights reserved.a division of nbcuniversalneighbors not surprised by accident on busy west lr street - fox16.com mclean county authorities say they are close to wrapping up a number of burglary cases in the northern part of the county .
it ’ s time to look to the future .
garrison school is in the midst of a growth spurt .
space is at a premium at both the high school and elementary school .
the city of garrison has placed a moratorium on construction of what it calls oversized pole barns or buildings in the city .
privacy policyterms of useabout uscontact usemploymentlinksventure marketing © 2013 bhg , inc . all rights reserved .
gay marriage opponents vow to push for ban | kob.com vugar khalilov : investigators told me , " how can you be not guilty if the journalists keep saying that you are bakievist ? !
vugar khalilov , the director-general of flexi communications pr agency , has demanded from the president of the rfe / rl radio free europe / radio liberty ) and from the prosecutor general of kyrgyzstan to investigate who and why has libeled him in the program of the rfe / rl 's kyrgyz service ( radio " azattyk " ) what resulted in his imprisonment almost for 5 months in the jail of the kyrgyzstan 's national security ministry ( gsnb ) .
at the end of the day the court has completely acquitted the british citizen , however activity of the pr agency v.khalilov established in kyrgyzstan has been still paralyzed .
vugar khalilov has told to fergana.ru how the investigation was carried on , what he was accused of , and also about specifics of the information war in kyrgyzstan which , in its opinion , has in certain extent led to the “ april events ” .
tolekan ismailova : “ the investigation of southern events is strategic issue ” islam karimov & co are the ones radicalising central asia dosym satpayev : uzbekistan is one of the major destabilization factors in the region arkady dubnov : the afghanis tolerate armed occupiers but it is getting increasingly more difficult to do so boris akunin : if they do not want me to write a book , dedicated to uzbekistan in the beginning of the century , i am not going to arkadiy dubnov : « the countries , lacking the culture of discussion , are not able to cooperate » antonietta gobbis : i can do things in tashkent that i cannot do in my hometown of florence kyrgyz prime-minister : “ my premiership in hands of ak jol party ” artist vyacheslav useinov : one has to swim against the current natalia bushuyeva : i did my best to work as if there were no censorship in uzbekistan bairam shihmuradov : as long as berdymuhammedov does not stop at it sergei yezhkov : speaking my mind and being heard is all i aspire for roza otunbayeva : we do not insist on the president 's resignation honestly and sans frontiers is the motto of a new and unusual internet project in kazakhstan ex-premier felix kulov elaborates on his plans to return to the opposition nigara hidoyatova : uzbek agriculture is in for years of trouble deputy kadyrjan batyrov : the reforms are the only consolidating force in the country ismail dadajanov : being in an uzbek jail is not my idea of fun rihanna and cara delevingne party together in barbados — see the pic !
look at these beaming beauties in barbados !
good pals cara delevingne and rihanna enjoyed a fun night out on the town , captured in an adorable snapshot , on saturday , dec .... ( 12 / 29 / 2013 6 : 05 : 45 pm ) profile of an organization / service , poem , etc . ) and how you think it fits the editor will let you know whether the proposed piece is a good fit and mailed to you ) in order that we may generate an invoice for your work .
you alger annaba blida boumerdès oran tipaza mostaganem constantine témouchent jijel tissemsilt béjaïa el tarf mila tizi ouzou skikda guelma bordj bou arreridj bouira souk ahras chlef relizane aïn defla mascara sétif saïda oum el bouaghi médéa tlemcen sidi bel abbès khenchela batna tébessa m 'sila tiaret biskra laghouat naâma el oued djelfa el bayadh ghardaïa tindouf béchar ouargla illizi adrar tamanrasset documentaire algerie algeria les algeriens les algerien des kamikaz documentaire algerie algeria les algeriens les algerien des kamikaz documentaire algerie algeria les algeriens les algerien des kamikaz documentaire algerie algeria les algeriens les algerien the gulf might be known for its love of falcons , camels and horses .
but how about dogs ?
the saluki -- is thought to take its name from the ancient city of sa ...
if you need the answers of the questions , you can send messages to us or by the online services : http : / / crusher.quartz-crusher.com / contact / index.html quarries and crushers in al ain -- grinding mill chinaquarries & crushers .
wbg crushers have supplies to all buildings and road ...
with over 150 trucks / trailers and fully equipped two crushers in fujairah andone in al ain ... ?
free online chat welcome to tarmac middle east al ...
the middle east or mideast is a region that encompasses western asia and all of or part of northern africa , depending on the context .
the term is considered to be eurocentric and used as a synonym for near east , in opposition to far east .
the corresponding adjective is middle-eastern and the derived noun is middle-easterner .
until we finda way to move yahour love for each otherwill have to improovethis ya roots rock reggaegot the groove , yahyou better take warningno time to loose , wo yeahwatch the middle eastit start from therethis ya third world slaughterheadin ' for the west frontier , yahuntil we find a wayto leave the west , o yesour love for each othermust be the strongestso much doctrineso much opinion , o yesbut it 's one jah , one glory troops sent to the middle easttroops sent to dietroops sent to the middle easttroops sent to dieso the rich can have their oiland pollute the sea and skyso george bush can sit in his plush officeand .. ? ? dignitywhile we watch the war on tvwhile we watch the war on tvhuman need not corporate greedhuman need not profithuman need not corporate greedhuman need not profitmoney goes to more and more weaponsnot for people ... ? ? needdemocrats , republicansare fighting moreit 's not what our taxesshould pay forthe rich are screwing us overthe rich are screwing us overthe u.s. doesn 't need to bethe world 's refereethe u.s. doesn 't need to bethe world 's refereefighting in the middle east everydaybecause of the u.s. and the u.k.large corporations are demanding morepower is what they all live fordying for the rich man 's wardying for a rich man 's wardying for a rich man 's wardying for a rich man 's war200,000 troops in the middle east400,000600,000too fucking manywhen 're you gonna to wake up and realize ... ? ? when your best friend gets killed ? stop the bloodshed before we all diewhy ? why ?
in my promised landin the middle eastwhat will we do about terrorism ? in my promised landin the middle eastwhat can we do about fanaticism ? you and i on parallel linesyou and i , we are the keydreams are not enoughto lead and guide usto peacein the middle eastoh , oh , oh ... in the middle eastoh , oh , oh ... desire for peacesuch yearning for peacedoes your country dowhat you believe in ? in my land there is warand we 're losing our souland ideologyis losing meaningyou and i on parallel linesyou and i , when can we meet ? dreams are not enoughto lead and guide usto peacein the middle eastoh , oh , oh ... in the middle eastoh , oh , oh ... sholem sholemween sholemsholem sholemwen essalamsholem sholemween sholemsalamyou and i on parallel linesyou and i , we are the keydreams are not enoughto lead and guide usto peacein the middle eastoh , oh , oh ... wen essalam ? oh , oh , oh ... in the middle eastflare lights , flowers , mothers , fathers , homeland , green fields and tearsborders , rivers , desert , dead seawe are the keyflare lights , flowers , mothers , fathers , homeland , green fields and tearsborders , rivers , desert , dead seawhen can we meet ? yerushalaymyerushalemoh , oh , oh ... in the middle eastoh , oh , oh ...
( it 's not the first time this video is uploaded to youtube .
i did it a year ago , in a now deleted account . )
the preceding was disproved for all " n " by showing that no matter what number is used for " n " , the result will always be odd .
there 's only two songs in me and i just wrote the thirddon 't know where i got the inspiration or how i wrote the wordsspent my whole life just digging up my music 's shallow gravefor the two songs in me and the third one i just madea rich man once told me " ; hey life 's a funny thing " ; a poor man once told methat he can 't afford to speaknow i 'm in the middle like a bird without a beak ' causethere 's just two songs in me and i just wrote the thirddon 't know where i got the inspiration or how i wrote the wordsspent my whole life just digging up my music 's shallow gravefor the two songs in me and the third one i just madeso i went to the presidentand i asked old what 's-his-namehas he ever gotten writer 's blockor something like the samehe just started talkinglike he was on tv " ; if there 's just two songs in ya , boywhaddaya want from me ? " ; so i bought myself some denim pantsand a silver guitarbut i politely told the ladies " ; you 'll still have to call me sirbecause i have to keep my self-respecti 'll never be a starsince there 's just two songs in meand this is number three " ; fbi chief admits use of drones in skies over u.s.by jim kouri obama 's " ban the bomb bluster " : no bomb obamaby j.d. longstreet top storiesnews near youindiaworldsouth sudanpervez musharrafbarbara bushiraqkim jong-unsydneydubaisyriademocracyphilippinesbusinesstechnologyentertainmentsportssciencehealthmore top storiesspotlighttop storiesnews near youindiaworldbusinesstechnologyentertainmentsportssciencehealthmore top storiesspotlightworlddaily news & analysissee realtime coveragepervez musharraf fails to appear before court citing security threatdaily news & analysis- & lrm ; 32 minutes ago & lrm ; musharraf could not come to the court as a one kg bomb was recovered near his house on the route he was scheduled to take .
pervez musharraf.related pervez musharraf strategi toshio asazaki kuasai pasar nikon di indonesiaokezone- & lrm ; dec 22 , 2013 & lrm ; " sekarang saya akan menunjukkan produk-produk unik satu-persatu kepada konsumen , seperti yang kami lakukan beberapa waktu lalu ( nikon 1 aw 1 ) , " tutur pria yang mulai bekerja di nikon corporation pada 2011 ini .
nikon pun sadar penjualan kamera ... see realtime coveragesee all 7 sourcesrelated : kamera toshio asazaki , nakhoda pertama nikon indonesiaokezone- & lrm ; dec 19 , 2013 & lrm ; nikon corporation ( nikon ) mencoba memperkuat posisinya di indonesia .
setelah lebih dari 60 tahun berjualan produk kamera hanya mengandalkan distributor , perusahaan optik dan kamera asal jepang ini akhirnya memiliki kantor sendiri di tanah air.الفجرمنافسة شركات الهواتف الذكية تهدد مصنعي الكاميرات بالإفلاسالفجر- & lrm ; 21 hours ago & lrm ; ... المصنعة للكاميرات إلى الإختفاء في المستقبل القريب حسبما ذكرت ( international data corporation ) حيث تقول بأنه " فقط الشركات التي تمتلك ماركات قوية و لها القدرة على المنافسة من تستطيع الإستمرار , و وحدها شركات canon , nikon و سوني من تمتلك هذه المواصفات " .un genocidio fraguando desde hace un siglo y recrudecido mucho más ... rebelión- & lrm ; dec 23 , 2013 & lrm ; la subsidiaria de la compañía china minmetals , minxia non-ferrous metal inc . , la cual multaron con 1 millón 198 dólares . ...
puede que muchos ya hayan olvidado que la firma japonesa nikon se negó a entregar una cámara de la marca al niño cubano raysel ... see realtime coveragesee all 438 sourcesrelated : raúl castro maxisciencesphotomicrographie : les plus belles images du concours olympus bioscapes 2013maxisciences- & lrm ; dec 23 , 2013 & lrm ; mettre en valeur le monde invisible à l 'œil nu , tel est l 'objectif de l 'olympus bioscapes digital imaging , un concours annuel organisé par nikon et olympus .
les images recueillies sont toutes ...
" olympus parraine ce concours depuis dix ans afin de ... personalisation whom you set as head and shepherd of your church .
we give you thanks for your grace at work in him in his teaching , in his prayer and in his great love .
markets end mixed in choppy sessionnasdaqwinners of 2013 : boring investorswall street journalsee all 386 sourcesrelated trades but if you become the master of new year 's eve , you 'll become the master of the new year .
although you probably think you know how to party on december 31st , there could be a few things you 're actually doing completely wrong .
are you quiet ?
are you blonde ?
are you neither ?
you should read on .
you really need to know how to do new year 's eve right , so don 't ...
or if you want , you could open it with a saber ...
4 .
plan on relying on a " hangover cure " to get you through new year 's day .
" q : what do you tell someone you didn 't see at new year 's eve ?
a : i haven 't seen you for a year ! " 7 .
have no idea how to fold a new year 's eve hat .
if you 're older than five years old and still don 't know how to fold a beautiful new year 's eve hat , what are you waiting for ?
here 's how to do it via examiner : " what are you doing new year 's eve " - ella fitzgerald " what are you doing new year 's eve " - the head and the heart although rachel from " friends " made her trifle for a thanksgiving party , trifles are a classic new year 's eve dessert .
time to master the art of trifling and make something super delicious .
don 't be a rachel and add meat to your trifle , make it this way according to allrecipes.com : -layer half of the strawberries followed by half of the blueberries , and then half of the bananas .
" the huffington post " is a registered trademark of thehuffingtonpost.com , inc .
all rights reserved.the silsbee bee jk donates xmas gifts to orphans and elders na gadiosa lamtey in zanzibar the centres include mabaoni , unguja centre of welezo and kilimanjaro region children prison , sukamale singida , mwanza residence for old people , bukumbi and centre for old people at msufini , muheza .
jennifer ball is a proud mom , a writer , a teacher and a big fan of martinis .
she is also an ex-wife who happens to be pear shaped .
she blogs about divorce and martinis and being pear shaped at the happy hausfrau .
currently working hard to find ways to put off finishing her tragically hilarious divorce memoir / burn book " what to do when your husband leaves you . "
you can like her on the facebook or find her cowering in the corner on twitter as @ happy _ haus .
a lot of us are guilty of it .
especially those of us with teens , or tweens , or kids of any age who watch kid-centric television shows or who spend a lot of time on instagram .
we start to talk like them .
words , phrases , the flotsam and jetsam of another generation 's ...
my mom once gave me a hand-me-down copy of ladies home journal .
i deemed it far too matronly for me and stacked it with with some other " grown up " magazines in my living room .
one day , when i had a few rare minutes of quiet time , i happened to pick ... secondsgoloading ... > > view all results for " " enter multiple symbols separated by commaslondon quotes now availablego newseconomyfinancehealth carereal estateretailwealthautosearningsenergymediapoliticscommentaryspecial reportsasiaeuropemarketspre-marketsu.s.asiaeuropestockscommoditiescurrenciesbondsfundsetfsinvestingfinancial advisorspersonal financecnbc explainsportfoliowatchliststock screenerfund screenertechmobilesocial mediaenterprisegamingcybersecuritysmall businessfranchisingfinancingmanagementvideolatest videodigital workshopu.s. videoasia videoeurope videoceo interviewsanalyst interviewsfull episodesclosed captioningshowswatch livecnbc u.s.cnbc asia-pacificcnbc europecnbc worldfull episodescnbcabout cnbcsite mapvideo reprintsadvertisecareershelpcontactprivacy policyterms of serviceindependent programming reportlatest news releasesrsscertain market data provided by thomson reutersdata also provided bydata is a real-time snapshot * data is delayed at least 15 minutesglobal business and financial news , stock quotes , and market data and analysis © 2014 cnbc llc . all rights reserved.a division of nbcuniversal ark valley news - sports oas supports and certifies destruction of weapons in costa rica are here as a family and it is together that is there for the asking , ask for it and act how much does it cost to advertise in the best times ?
if i buy advertising , will you accept my press releases or articles for publication ?
our rates are based on receipt of electronic files .
you may e-mail us your completed ad as a high-resolution ’ pdf ’ or ’ jpg ’ file .
you may also provide the file on a cd ad design assistance is available at $ 50 per hour , at a minimum of one our deadline for reserving space is the third day of the month preceding publication .
the deadline for final proof approval or submission of electronic files is the eighth day of the month preceding publication .
prepayment of the first ad insertion is due the third day of the month preceding publication , unless other arrangements are made .
subsequent insertions will be invoiced and due on the last day of the month of publication .
the best times accepts mastercard and visa. third day of the month .
if cancelled , the cost would be adjusted accordingly .
for example , if you had a 12-time agreement for a quarter-page you would be invoiced for the difference between the three-time and 12 time yes .
you may change your ad each month .
we must receive notification of a pending ad change by the fifth of the month .
we am i restricted in what i can advertise in the best times ?
yes , businesses may have an ad flier or other insert included in the best we can also arrange the printing of fliers for inserting .
for printing and " at your service " is an option for advertisers who don 't find display ads and classified ads to be quite the right fit .
the " at your the cost of an at your service business card ad is an affordable $ 200 per we 've made it easy on you by eliminating the need for a contract .
to become an " at your service " advertiser , click on business card ad asmara — the eritrean embassy in the republic of south sudan has evacuated nationals from warzones , especially bentieyu and bor cities , to juba in collaboration with the united nations .
a hard-driving ghanaian businessman who ’ s somewhat of a jack-of-all-trades , william ato essien , was in london last week for the mining on top africa seminar to lay out his new venture , ( ... )
the roadblocks to constructing the cross-border dam are being gradually lifted thanks to harare ’ s goodwill . ( ... )
it was a cold night in garrison .
but the lack of a teaching contact for garrison teachers remains a hot topic in the community and weighs heavily at board meetings .
it will soon be illegal to smoke or use tobacco products of any kind on all county premises .
even though there ’ s no snow on the ground doesn ’ t mean one can ’ t get into the christmas spirit .
temeke team yesterday outclassed rukwa by 94-16 goals at the ongoing national netball championship held at the national stadium in dar es salaam .
temeke looked more determined to win the game through their shooters mwanaidi hassan and materina mhagama and by the time the first .
full story disclosing this yesterday , tff president jamar malinzi said the job is effect from january 1 , next year and mwesigwa , who holds a degree in interntional relations and a diploma in law , met all the requirements for the job .
the decision to fire the dutch trainer comes two days after the team ’ s 3-1 defeat in the hands of their archrivals simba in ’ nani mtani mjembe ’ match played at the national stadium .
more than 422m / - was collected during the ’ nani mtani jembe ’ match between archrivals simba and yanga played at the national stadium in dar es salaam on saturday .
simba proved that they are a force to reckon with when they hit archrivals yanga 3-1 in a beer promotion friendly match at the national stadium in dar es salaam yesterday .
city rivals young africans sc and simba sc meet in a tension packed friendly at the national stadium in dar es salaam today .
although it is a friendly but it is considered a league match as the two sides rarely meet and a loss will almost instantaneously lead to problems of technical bench cohesion and fan loyalty for the losing side .
in a surprise but business-wise acceptable move , french media firm sgm has pledged to buy all television rights to beam live a caf champions league first leg tie between mainland champions yanga and holders al ahly to be played in dar es salaam next year .
former simba sc striker emmanuel okwi has crossed over to mainland champions yanga as confirmed by the club ’ s information officer baraka kazuguto in dar es salaam yesterday .
simba sc players and officials are expected to travel to zanzibar later today for a five-day camp in preparation for a friendly tie against archrivals young africans to be played at the national stadium in dar es salaam on saturday .
mwalusako has been the club ’ s acting secretary general for almost one year after celestine mwesigwa was sacked .
in his letter to immediate former tff president leodegar tenga , kikwete asked tenga to use his experience as leader of tff to advise the federation leadership on matters concerning football development .
archrivals simba and yanga will lock horns in their ’ nani mtani mjembe ’ campaign match on december 21 at the national stadium in dar es salaam .
bausi scoffed at the cecafa tournament organizers for not setting up the final group stage game simultaneously .
speaking before the departure of the team , the tanzania cycling association ( chabata ) president , jax mhagama , who is also the leader of the delegation , named the cyclists who have left for egypt as laizer loning ’ o and hamis mkoma both of arusha and gerald konda of shinyanga .
square are expected to rock dar es salaam with a historic performance at the leaders club in kinondoni today .
he said at started the program in 2010 but it has only covered few collages. вентилируемые фасады цена | прогнозы на баскетбол бесплатно mel b on spice girls reunion : ' anything is possible ' mel b recently spoke to the daily mail about the future of the beloved girl band and her hopes for a reunion .
" the truth is i was always the one that wanted the spice girls to continue .
i didn ’ t want it to end and i still don ’ t , " mel b told the publication .
" even though i ’ ve always had my own career going on , i ’ m always up for a reunion .
always . "
" it ’ s a shame we ’ re not doing more as a band , " the 38-year-old singer continued .
" there are no cogs turning right now but put it this way , there are always at least two of us talking about doing something .
i spoke to emma the other day ; we ’ re all trying to get together for mel c ’ s 40th in january , and we were saying how we ’ d like to go back on the road .
if we were able to do the olympics closing ceremony , getting on and doing rehearsals for three weeks , then i think anything is possible . "
time & life picturesginger spicegetty photoredferns photoposh spiceredferns photobaby spice , scary spice & ginger spicefilmmagic photobaby spicewireimagegetty photogetty photobaby spicefilmmagic photo sporty spicegetty photoafp / getty imagesposh spicefilmmagic photobaby spicegetty photobaby spice & posh spicegetty photobaby spiceredferns photoscary spiceredferns photoscary spiceredferns phototime life pictures / getty imagestime & life picturesspice girl reunion possiblereports reveal that the spice girls may reunite for a performance .
the top investor in banca monte dei paschi di siena looked set to force a delay in a 3-billion euro capital hike the italian lender needs to carry out .
art cashin is out with a poem to ring in 2014 , and virtually nobody who was in the news this year was spared .
newseconomyfinancehealth carereal estateretailwealthautosearningsenergymediapoliticscommentaryspecial reportsasiaeuropemarketspre-marketsu.s.asiaeuropestockscommoditiescurrenciesbondsfundsetfsinvestingfinancial advisorspersonal financecnbc explainsportfoliowatchliststock screenerfund screenertechmobilesocial mediaenterprisegamingcybersecuritysmall businessfranchisingfinancingmanagementvideolatest videodigital workshopu.s. videoasia videoeurope videoceo interviewsanalyst interviewsfull episodesclosed captioningshowswatch livecnbc u.s.cnbc asia-pacificcnbc europecnbc worldfull episodescnbcabout cnbcsite mapvideo reprintsadvertisecareershelpcontactprivacy policyterms of serviceindependent programming reportlatest news releasesrsscertain market data provided by thomson reutersdata also provided bydata is a real-time snapshot * data is delayed at least 15 minutesglobal business and financial news , stock quotes , and market data and analysis © 2014 cnbc llc . all rights reserved.a division of nbcuniversal search results - investors.com un expert urges somalia ’ s government to finalise and implement human rights roadmap over 60 percent of the country ’ s population .
burao and galkayo and parts of southern somalia .
the majority of the livestock ghanaian immigrant nobert owusu does the nails of norchelle naude at his beauty salon in the center of ventersdorp .
many blacks still depend on whites for jobs .
5 columns 10.222 " wideclick on the images below to download a printable pdf file : the largesse of the federal reserve over the past five years has amounted to one of the largest ever subsidies to the american wealthy .
flight information is provided by flightstats , and is subject to the flightstats terms of use .
caucasusarmenia azerbaijangeorgiaazerbaijanis jailed over rally for man who immolated himself in protestnew georgian prosecutor-general under attack blog archivelatest from svaboda.org беларускую сьвініну зноў пусьцяць у расею бізнэсовец ахвяруе грошы на занядбаны помнік гомель просіць не замінаць яму спаць эўрамайдан зьбіраецца ставіць навагодні рэкорд у выкананьні гімну у паўднёвым судане ўспыхнулі сутычкі radio svaboda ( in belarusian ) features & commentary prof ibrahim lipumba described the adjustments as ’ one unfortunate approach ’ . country is lao people 's democratic republic .
in lao , sathalanalat pasathipatai pasason lao. routes between thailand , vietnam and china now makes it a country to be courted by its internationalizing neighbors .
arr 1220 thursday & sunday.luang phrabang to vientiane dep 1250 ancient cultural artifacts are prohibited to be taken out of laos .
if you have on arrival at wattaya international airport in vientiane , taxis are available to savannakhet and pakse , the khong falls , and low water levels during the dry transportation : nam ou , nam khan , nam tha , nam hgur , and se don .
lao pdr has 13100 km of main road networks .
the 3390 km of national roads link the central telephone office is located on setthathilath road near nam phu the local newspaper to read is the vientiane times and if you want to check as the site known as ( www.vientianetimes ) has nothing to do with the where you can also receive a copy of the chiangmai trader news for years , researcher and writer ben ramalingam has been worried about the state of the world in general and the state of aid and international development in particular .
now his new book , aid on the edge of chaos , sets out his view that many of the things wrong with international aid are the result of thinking about the world in an outdated , mechanistic way - a mindset that cannot cope with the dynamic , complex problems seen today .
all rights reserved | view full sitetrecut şi prezent în politica externa românească | cadran politic home idei contemporane trecut şi prezent în politica externa românească posted by florin constantiniu on mar 25th , 2003 / / comments off istoria românilor alatura exemple de uluitor curaj si de totala neîncredere în fortele proprii istoria românilor alatura exemple de uluitor curaj si de totala neîncredere în fortele proprii .
mircea cel batrân , vlad tepes , stefan cel mare si alti voievozi au cautat alianta unor mari puteri crestine în lupta cu imperiul otoman & # 8211 ; pâna în secolul al xvi-lea , o adevarata superputere a epocii & # 8211 ; dar , când concursul militar al acestor puteri a lipsit , ei nu au sovait sa stea singuri în fata unui adversar de o coplesitoare superioritate ; au facut-o pentru a-si apara tara lor , dar au avut si constiinta unui mare rost european , asa cum o spune raspicat stefan cel mare în solia sa catre venetia din 1477 : & # 8220 ; nu vreau sa mai spun cât de folositoare este pentru treburile crestine aceasta tara a mea ; socotesc ca este de prisos fiindca lucrul e prea limpede ca ea este cetatea de aparare a tarii unguresti si a poloniei si straja acestor doua craii .
afara de aceasta , fiindca turcul s-a împiedicat de mine , multi crestini au ramas în liniste de patru ani & # 8221 ; .
când soarta armelor nu le-a fost favorabila , ei nu s-au descurajat , asa cum reiese si din inscriptia pusa de acelasi stefan la biserica din razboieni , ridicata în 1496 , acolo unde fusese înfrânt cu douazeci de ani înainte de sultanul mehmed al ii-lea : & # 8220 ; s-a ridicat prea puternicul mahmet , împarat turcesc , cu toate puterile sale rasaritene ; si înca si basarab voievod , numit laiota , a venit cu el , cu toata tara basarabeasca ( tara româneasca , numita astfel dupa dinastia basarabilor & # 8211 ; n.n. ) .
si au venit sa prade si sa ia tara moldovei ; si au ajuns pâna aici , la locul numit valea alba .
iar noi , stefan voievod si cu fiul nostru alexandru , am iesit înaintea lor si am facut mare razboi cu ei , în luna iulie 26 ; si cu voia lui dumnezeu , au fost înfrânti crestinii de pagâni .
si au cazut aici multime mare de osteni ai moldovei .
tot atunci si tatarii au lovit tara moldovei din ceia parte & # 8221 ; .
relatarea atât e obiectiva a unui esec & # 8211 ; sa recunoastem & # 8211 ; este cu totul rara la oamenii politici .
în alte împrejurari se constata o adevarata spaima când este evocata posibilitatea unei confruntari cu poarta otomana .
astfel , în 1658 , când domnul tarii românesti , mihnea al iii-lea ( era grec ! ) , le propune boierilor sa se ridice împotriva imperiului otoman , acestia vadesc o totala lipsa de încredere în victorie : & # 8220 ; doamne , bun lucru ar fi acesta !
iar noi ne temem ca nu vom putea plini desavârsit , ci numai vom zadarî sarpele si ne va înghiti cu totul .
caci noi sântem o tara mica si far de oameni , neputincioasa si far de ajutor de nici o parte .
iar turcii sunt puternici , mari si biruiesc toata lumea , de la rasarit la apus & # 8221 ; .
nimic din curajul lui stefan cel mare !
aceeasi gândire politica , exprimata în termeni similari de unul dintre cei mai vârstnici oameni politici români , în 1914 , theodor rosetti , cumnatul lui cuza voda , care , în consiliul de coroana de la sinaia , convocat pentru a fixa atitudinea româniei în razboiul ce tocmai izbucnise , a spus : & # 8220 ; suntem o tara mica , un biet popor , iesit abia de ieri , de alaltaieri , din greutati si din robie .
nu cred ca sta în putinta noastra sa facem politica mare .
acum cei mari s-au încaierat , noi nu avem ce cauta în luptele lor .
sa stam deci linistiti la o parte , sa ne vedem de nevoile si de necazurile noastre si sa ne caznim sa pastram ceea ce cu atâta truda am agonisit & # 8221 ; .
cine urmareste politica externa a româniei în perioada post-decembrista , constata ca ea este dominata de felul de a gândi al boierilor munteni de la 1658 sau & # 8211 ; pâna la un punct & # 8211 ; al lui theodor rosetti , la 1914 .
întocmai ca si dupa primul razboi mondial , când garantiile de securitate au fost cautate cu precadere în exterior ( franta si anglia , mica întelegere , întelegerea balcanica , alianta româno-polona ) , si astazi , se crede ca garantiile de securitate vin din includerea româniei în nato .
doua observatii sunt aici de facut : 1 ) .
nato din perioada post-comunista , nu mai este nato din perioada razboiului rece ; disparitia amenintarii sovietice a lasat teren liber de manifestare a divergentelor si tensiunilor dintre aliati .
încordarea dintre sua si & # 8220 ; vechea europa & # 8221 ; ( franta , germania ) este o dovada graitoare ; 2 ) .
cine ameninta românia în momentul de fata ?
cu bulgaria si ungaria nu mai avem nici un litigiu teritorial ; ucrainei , tratatul din 1997 i-a dat teritorii românesti , la care probabil , nici nu visa ; rusia nu mai este vecina cu românia .
atunci ? & # 8220 ; noile amenintari & # 8221 ; ?
terorismul ?
în realitate , prin urmarea orbeasca a sua , românia se expune loviturilor teroriste .
retorica propagandei americane vrea sa acrediteze ideea ca , în prezent , are loc o confruntare între lumea civilizata si terorism .
nu este adevarat .
terorismul islamic este o componenta a conflictului din orientul mijlociu , iar ostilitatea sa fata de sua , o consecinta a pozitiei adoptate de sua în acest conflict , pozitie perceputa de fundamentalistii islamici ca antiaraba si antiislamica .
în conditiile unei confruntari asimetrice , partea slaba recurge la mijloace neconventionale de lupta , în speta acte teroriste .
din dorinta de a fi admisi în nato , am sacrificat ucrainei teritorii românesti la care kievul nu avea nici un drept .
atunci , în 1997 , sua s-au opus intrarii româniei în nato .
dupa 11 septembrie 2001 , interesat sa transforme nato într-un simplu instrument al politicii externe a sua si sa-si extinda controlul asupra unui numar cât mai mare de tari , washingtonul si-a aruncat privirile si asupra româniei .
guvernantii de la bucuresti , nesiguri de ei , apasati de banuiala de neo- sau criptocomunism , aveau nevoie de o legitimare din partea serifului mondial , sua .
au alergat în întâmpinarea dorintelor lui cu un servilism de prost gust , care a compromis tara noastra .
în jelania sa , theodor rosetti spunea ca românia nu trebuie sa se amestece în certurile dintre cei mari .
guvernantii nostri , tematori ca si theodor rosetti , n-au mers cu logica fricii pâna la capat : mai simplu spus , & # 8220 ; sa stea în banca lor & # 8221 ; .
nu , în dorinta de a fi pe placul washingtonului si a primului lor vasal , marea britanie , au criticat pozitia rationala a frantei .
ei nu înteleg ca , pentru o tara ca românia , coordonatele securitatii sunt un sistem multipolar sanatos si o institutie care sa impuna respectul legalitatii internationale .
activitatea politica si diplomatica a tarii noastre în ultimul timp pare a voi sa ilustreze afirmatia lui emil cioran : & # 8220 ; a fi român înseamna a fi o fiinta cu multa apa în sânge & # 8221 ; .
newseconomyfinancehealth carereal estateretailwealthautosearningsenergymediapoliticscommentaryspecial reportsasiaeuropemarketspre-marketsu.s.asiaeuropestockscommoditiescurrenciesbondsfundsetfsinvestingfinancial advisorspersonal financecnbc explainsportfoliowatchliststock screenerfund screenertechmobilesocial mediaenterprisegamingcybersecuritysmall businessfranchisingfinancingmanagementvideolatest videodigital workshopu.s. videoasia videoeurope videoceo interviewsanalyst interviewsfull episodesclosed captioningshowswatch livecnbc u.s.cnbc asia-pacificcnbc europecnbc worldfull episodescnbcabout cnbcsite mapvideo reprintsadvertisecareershelpcontactprivacy policyterms of serviceindependent programming reportlatest news releasesrsscertain market data provided by thomson reutersdata also provided bydata is a real-time snapshot * data is delayed at least 15 minutesglobal business and financial news , stock quotes , and market data and analysis © 2014 cnbc llc . all rights reserved.a division of nbcuniversal antarctica crude oil consumption by year ( thousand barrels per day ) rdc : le m23 se régénère-t-il à partir du rwanda et de l 'ouganda ?
sur le papier , la rébellion du mouvement du 23-mars ( m23 ) a pris fin après une défaite militaire , début novembre , sanctionnée par la récente déclaration de d 'experts onusiens , indiquent que l 'ex-groupe rebelle tenterait de se refaire une santé en procédant à de nouveaux recrutements au rwanda et en ouganda , où c 'est un document qui ne devrait pas passer inaperçu .
le rapport final du groupe d 'experts des nations unies sur la rdc , encore confidentiel mais dont l 'agence reuters s 'est procuré une copie , affirme non seulement que les rebelles du mouvement du 23-mars ( m23 ) ont bénéficié d 'un " soutien continu " de kigali lors des dernières offensives des forces armées de la rdc ( fardc ) appuyées par la brigade d 'intervention de l 'onu , mais surtout qu ' " ils ont continué à recruter expliquent qu 'elles ne sont pas surprises par les allégations contenues dans le rapport d 'experts onusiens .
" nous n 'avons jamais eu d 'engagement ferme et clair des autorités rwandaises sur la cessation de tout appui aux rebelles du m23 , confie un diplomate européen basé à kinshasa .
nous avons donc toujours supposé que le soutien de kigali , bien que diminué à la suite des pressions le diplomate relève également que ce fut " la reprise par les fardc de la route principale de connexion entre le m23 et le rwanda qui [ diminua ] gravement tout soutien de l 'armée rwandaise aux rebelles congolais . "
même son de cloche à kinshasa .
" jusqu 'au dernier jour de l 'offensive triomphante des fardc , le rwanda a continué à apporter son soutien aux rebelles du m23 " , affirme lambert mende .
pour le porte-parole du gouvernement congolais , le rapport du groupe d 'experts onusiens ne vient que " confirmer ce que les autorités congolaises n 'ont cessé de autant d 'accusations qui , selon les diplomates rwandais , ne constituent qu 'un ramassis de " mensonges " .
interpellé sur le réseau social twitter au sujet de ce représentant adjoint du rwanda au conseil de sécurité à new-york , préfère , lui , citer un autre passage du même rapport qui met en cause l 'armée congolaise : " les forces armées , en particulier les fardc , demeurent parmi les principaux it ’ s here , and fears are that it won ’ t be going away anytime soon .
flu season has arrived , and it ’ s making a statement at garrison high school. the mass , he vowed to live a life of poverty , chastity and obedience as a hermit in the least you saw khao san--wow ? ? ! ! .
but , the bag taking is getting much the " toy boys " have arrived .
it has a swimming pool and “ we ’ ve had dog bites before but never something like this , ” hakim said .
“ it ’ s very sad for us in bullhead city . "
" the huffington post " is a registered trademark of thehuffingtonpost.com , inc .
all rights reserved .. signature _ line bermuda insurers applaud agreement to share tax information with us bermuda premier welcomes uk and us support for island 's economy newseconomyfinancehealth carereal estateretailwealthautosearningsenergymediapoliticscommentaryspecial reportsasiaeuropemarketspre-marketsu.s.asiaeuropestockscommoditiescurrenciesbondsfundsetfsinvestingfinancial advisorspersonal financecnbc explainsportfoliowatchliststock screenerfund screenertechmobilesocial mediaenterprisegamingcybersecuritysmall businessfranchisingfinancingmanagementvideolatest videodigital workshopu.s. videoasia videoeurope videoceo interviewsanalyst interviewsfull episodesclosed captioningshowswatch livecnbc u.s.cnbc asia-pacificcnbc europecnbc worldfull episodescnbcabout cnbcsite mapvideo reprintsadvertisecareershelpcontactprivacy policyterms of serviceindependent programming reportlatest news releasesrsscertain market data provided by thomson reutersdata also provided bydata is a real-time snapshot * data is delayed at least 15 minutesglobal business and financial news , stock quotes , and market data and analysis © 2014 cnbc llc . all rights reserved.a division of nbcuniversal @ import url ( " .. / .. / css / sdstyles.css " ) ; table of contentsfanshawe student union > interrobang > about us © 2014 laurentian publishinggoloading ... > > view all results for " " enter multiple symbols separated by commaslondon quotes now availablego tune in for a jumpstart on the business day for the corporate and financial communities .
christine tan speaks to asia 's top corporate leaders who set the business agenda for the region .
newseconomyfinancehealth carereal estateretailwealthautosearningsenergymediapoliticscommentaryspecial reportsasiaeuropemarketspre-marketsu.s.asiaeuropestockscommoditiescurrenciesbondsfundsetfsinvestingfinancial advisorspersonal financecnbc explainsportfoliowatchliststock screenerfund screenertechmobilesocial mediaenterprisegamingcybersecuritysmall businessfranchisingfinancingmanagementvideolatest videodigital workshopu.s. videoasia videoeurope videoceo interviewsanalyst interviewsfull episodesclosed captioningshowswatch livecnbc u.s.cnbc asia-pacificcnbc europecnbc worldfull episodescnbcabout cnbcsite mapvideo reprintsadvertisecareershelpcontactprivacy policyterms of serviceindependent programming reportlatest news releasesrsscertain market data provided by thomson reutersdata also provided bydata is a real-time snapshot * data is delayed at least 15 minutesglobal business and financial news , stock quotes , and market data and analysis © 2014 cnbc llc . all rights reserved.a division of nbcuniversalthailand finance & banking news 2008 kasn public filethefts and lost property at bangkok 's suvarnabhumi airport in thailand scams and thefts are nothing new at thailands busy airport but be on the lookout as over the last year there have been many robberies , lost property , thefts and taxi scams and these continue to happen .
following the inside thefts of airport trolleys last year the authorities have beefed up the security at the airport .
however there are foreigners and thais who still ply their trade by trying to take what is not theres so watch out and keep your bags safe .
make sure all your valuables are in a safe place and do not leave cameras , passports , valuables etc in your main bags even in the left luggage-- you risk losing them and theres no comeback .
with the world crises & internal headaches biting into thailands economy there has been an upsurge bank robberies in bangkok and even at suvannabhumbi airport so you are warned to beware .
it is up to you to stay safe but we publish items for the unwary traveller as the airport security can still not get their act together although the govt have taken steps to evict around 400 taxis which is a good sign as at september 2009 .
my dept secretary informed on this .
her cousin was detained in bangkok for stealing a box of cigarettes in a duty-free shop in bangkok international airport .
he had paid for chocolates and a carton of cigarettes .
the cashier put a packet of smokes into his bag and he thought it was a free pack .
he was arrested for shop-lifting and the thai police extortion price was rm30,000 for his release .
he spent two nights in jail and paid rm50 for an air-cond cell , 200-300 baht for each visitor , and rm11,000 for his final release .
now would you belive this scam ? ? ? as it was on tv nation channel 13th august ?
a thai man went in a taxi from the airport in the back of the taxi .
the driver has doctored the aircondition in the car to make the passenger 9 / .
the old saying --- if they speak good english be on alert .
don 't take shortcuts as it may lead to costing you a lot more than you thought .
men in uniform can buys these easy--ask for id and get them to write their name and sight their id number .
yell to get attention but don 't give in ?
here is a link issued by king power that alledgedly shows the lady pocketing a wallet but was not produced until 2 months after .
careful examination one may see how a video may have been changed as its very easy to do to suit the situation after the fact ? http : / / www.kingpower.com / 2009 / index.php 6 / .
the economic crises has seen an upsurge in petty crime , atm muggings and scams so be careful as at 2009 and it seems the government cannot ddo its part to intervene .
the view from sunflower gardensremember to be thankful this season the insufficiency of the current budget is known to administrators .
“ based on what we have here , the current funding we agreed to , we ’ re not looking at making a dip or a dive in the deferred maintenance .
it will continue to rise actually , but it will rise at a slower pace , ” said attalla .
între ierarhii bisericii române din secolul trecut , mitropolitul visarion puiu a fost o perso ­ nalitate deosebită .
s-a născut în oraşul paşcani , în 1879 , şi a murit în exil lân ­ gă paris , în august 1964 .
după studii teologice făcute la iaşi şi la bucureşti , şi-a desăvârşit pregătirea teologică la celebra academie ortodoxă de la kiev , făcând o vreme studii şi în centrul ...
în urmă cu un secol , take lo ­ nescu s-a remarcat în ţară şi apoi pe plan european ca o stră ­ lucită personalitate politică .
s-a născut într-o familie modestă , la ploieşti , la 13 / 25 octombrie 1858 .
pe linie ma ­ ternă se trăgea dintre românii bal ­ canici .
a terminat studiile liceale la cole ­ giul sfântul sava , perioadă în care a fost atras spre literatură publicând nuvele , versuri ...
nicolae de hohenzolern ( 1903-1977 ) , un prinţ al româniei prin europa cel de-al patrulea dintre cei şase copii , băieţi şi fete , ai foştilor monarhi ai româniei , regele ferdinand şi regina maria , s-a născut la sinaia la 5 august 1903 .
în calitate de fiu al familiei moştenitoare a tronului româniei , era nepot al unor capete încoronate ale europei având drept bunici pe linie maternă atât pe regina victoria a angliei , cât şi pe ţarul alexandru al ii-lea ...
despre românii moldoveni care locuiesc în rusia sovietică sau mai bine zis în republica autonomă moldovenească , înfiinţată în anul 1924 , ştim deocamdată relativ puţin .
în decursul unui deceniu de existenţă , întinderea teritoriului acestei republici a fost schimbată de mai multe ori şi o dată cu ea s-a modificat , bineînţeles , şi numărul total al populaţiei .
republica moldovenească ...
george emil palade & # 8211 ; primul român laureat al premiului nobel george emil palade a avut astfel un rol hotărâtor în evoluţia unei noi ştiinţe , despre care , un savant român afirma recent : “ biologia celulară la ora actuală este ştiinţa fundamentală a medicinii .
nu se poate vorbi de nici un proces medical fără ea & # 8230 ; pentru că tot ceea ce înseamnă viaţă este studiat prin această nouă ştiinţă ” .
kenya moore says she doesn ’ t ‘ want a daughter ’ due to dysfunctional relationship with her own mother get involved the catholic mirror : : diocese of des moines tff gives clubs two weeks to work on transfer hitches na joseph mchekadona he said simba sc has five places to register new players but the club has submitted names of six new players .
the players are uhuru selemani , ivo mapunda , ali badru , awadh juma , kenyan defender donald musoti and ghanaian goalkeeper yaw berko .
" should old acquaintance be forgot and something blah blah blah ! ! ! "
as we squint bravely at the bright face of a new year , the song asks , how shall we treat our memory of dear friends , distant or departed .
we 're verging on 12 : 01 am at this point , the sloppiest , most emotionally unashamed moment of the night , perhaps even of the calendar year . you are perfectly vulnerable , greased up for the swelling new orleans-funeral-styled crescendo of auld lang syne . you can be forgiven for a little eyeball leakage .
that is to say , let 's drink to one another , to our past , our present and our future .
fazliddin kurbanov , an uzbekistani immigrant in the usa was detained for alleged support of terrorism .
is kurbanov ’ s case a typical one or something extraordinary ?
can one speak of tendencies ?
why do refugees , seeking refuge from persecutions in the freest country in the world , wind up under the authorities ’ watchful eye ?
are the charges pressed against them serious ?
if they are , what makes them take the criminal path ?
who are these people ?
terrorists , freedom fighters or victims of special services back home ?
sadly , there are no full answers to these questions ?
the first reception center for refugees in all of central asia is to be established in kyrgyzstan newspaper migrant nsk is published in novosibirsk for the natives of central asia human rights activist tolib yakubov and a colleague of his left uzbekistan for alma-ata here , the constitutional court has three ways to go – to close the jdp off , to deprive it of the state financial aid or to reject the lawsuit .
" the huffington post " is a registered trademark of thehuffingtonpost.com , inc .
all rights reserved.importers advertising classifieds-wanted to buy largest export database classifieds in thailand .
if you want anything let us in thailand ] [ read services offered ads ] [ read ads ] for our buy , sell , exchange newspaper read in bangkok , pattaya to products ] [ arriving bangkok ] [ see online ads ] [ back paintings ] [ wood doors ] [ motorcycle exports ] boxes & eskies ] [ bike t shirts ] [ jeans ] [ china minibikes & off roaders ] [ oil paintings & reproductions ] tops ] [ lacquerware pictures and frames ] [ jockey get involved irin | africa | west africa | mali trouble in timbuktu - multimedia specialfood and nutrition crisis in niger and the western sahel britelite windows , doors and conservatories set ourselves the target of offering the finest products at value for money .
under the antarctic ice - beauty of the nature the antarctic ice sheet is one of the two polar ice caps of the earth .
it covers about 98 % of the antarctic co ...
this video production is copyrighted to lindblad expeditions and was shot and edited onsite by videographer sarah culler of culler video productions. www.you ...
suggestions that modest increases in sea ice around antarctica offset significant losses in arctic sea ice are based on a bogus " apples and oranges " comparis ...
" operation high jump " antarctic expedition - " the secret land " ( 1948 ) [ full documentary ] long before i ever sawthe frost upon your facei was haunted by your beautyand it drew me to this placei felt the chill of mysterywith one foot on your shoreand then and there resolved to gowhere no man had beforechorusmaybe i was snowblindbut it seemed the wind spoke trueand i believed it 's stories thenas dreamers sometimes doin antarcticain antarcticawho knows what the powers may bethat cause a man to gomindless of the dangersout across the virgin snowseduced by this ambitioni easily forgetthe hopeless quest of shackletonthe dreamlike death of scottchorusmaybe i was snowblindperhaps it sapped my willbut something of my innocenceis wandering there stillin antarcticain antarcticain antarcticain antarctica gaping in the horizon , entire continent cloached on ice movewith giant ice sheets constantly on the moveseas of this continent so cold and invinciblewhere icebergs more as monuments , towards a dry damned earthbehind the gates and mighty portalsof the arctic polar circlebuilds the frozen , frozen layers of snowa perfect platform to grow against the seasonstowering in the horizonan entire continent cloached on icewith giant ice sheets floating nearernearer with its tide and icy waves , wavesthe snowbelts of antarctica risewith its dark polar winter stormsshadow of antarctica spreadswith its masses of permafrostthe climate shifts to colder for the icier ageglaciers stretches far washing everything awaythe darkest face of ice , ahh , the coldest place of all the rain begins , the tide it pullsand it drags me down , [ incomprehensible ] keep rolling in , keep rolling inalone you float , she won 't let goand it spins you outkeep rolling in , keep rolling in , keep rolling inunderneath a web of satellitesconcrete structures puncture holes in the skynothing lives here and no one comes here anymoreredesign me , i lost your grippeeled apart by the owedstick beside me on the roadredesign me , i lost my grippeeled apart by the owedstick beside me on the roadshe winks and glowsif i could run from this , i swear i 'd take you with mebut this place has got the best of us againand it won 't just go awaywe 're driving in with our hearts half mastand there 's nothing left to sayredesign me , i lost my grippeeled apart by the owedstick beside me on the roadredesign me , i lost your grippeeled apart by the owedstick beside me on the road all i haveis strictly forbiddenand all i haveis strictly insanewe know what we wantbut that 's not always good for usinsanityis not always dispairall i have means nothing to meand all i give , is so much morewhen nothing is leftthere 's nothing to loosewhen there 's nothing to loose , there is peace of the mindwe all fall into oblivionand history slowly fadeswhat 's done doesn 't matterwhat matter 's not doneall we havebelongs to no oneall i have means nothing to meand all i give , is so much morewhen nothing is leftthere 's nothing to loose i climbed the mountains and scaled the icereleased defiancemy blood ran white , cold and numbi saw the shadows of demigodswhispering answers that time forgotforever truei ’ m frozen bluethere ’ s not much timei died for youa true believer , the king of lieswe all betrayed youyour blood ran whitei ’ m frozen bluethere ’ s not much timei died for you antarcticai gave him the gunwe was in we was ini gave him the gunand this was inno place in the world that you knowsay i got a problemhead like an ovenyou seecould take me a while to settle itbut i ’ ll never settle itwith you talking to mewhen the last mobster is gonewe go too in an icy dawnyou can ’ t consider it landand you can not call it the seai ’ m alone with what seems like your suitcaseand in your suitcaseis a handfor mewhen the last mobster is gonewe go too in an icy dawnwhere the first flat starts to crackwe step out we don ’ t get backa deserted complex of townhomes built high in the airremembering you and your family therethe plummeting view down the cliffside stairto a swimming pool that opens to the ocean belowthis was no place in the world that you knowsay i got a problemhead like an ovenyou seecould take me a while to settle itand until i settle itwon ’ t you leave me hung on the treewhen the last mobster is gonewe go too in an icy dawnwhere the first flat starts to crackwe step out we don ’ t get backantarcticai gave him the gunwe was in we was ini gave him the gunand this was in ... antarcticai gave him the gunwe was in we was ini gave it to himand this was in it 's time to lay the kids down to sleepand pray the lord their souls to keepfor if they cry in fear that i might not come backit 's in the haunted forest where the witch cooks her kidsand i 'm delirious as she sings me her songthe cops and the dogs are close behindto save me from her knivesthey pull me out just in timebut in antarctica it 's a place where i don 't feel alonein antarctica our worries are buried in the snowand the witch can 't find me hereand all of my friends are thereand i 'll find my heart in antarcticaand i 'll find my heart in antarcticai 've been in this car far way too longit 's twisted my back all wrongi can 't open my handsthey are far way to wakeand fall it only comes twice a yearonce in autumn and once for feari blame it on all my tearsi blame it on all my tearsin antarctica it 's a place where i don 't feel alonein antarctica our worries are buried in the snowand the witch can 't find me hereand all of my friends are thereand i 'll find my heart in antarcticaand i 'll find my heart in antarcticaand we 'll never part in antarctica aren 't we leaving today ? abandoning the worldno more cities , we 'll kill technologyno more boys and no more girlsi pray for the snowyou and i drown in the blue and coldand fall so in love ... teach me how to whisper ... teach me how to whisper ... are we leaving today ? we 're learning to dielearning to solve everythingthrough beautiful goodbyesi pray for the snowwe 'll fall so in love ... teach me how to whisper ... teach me how to whisper ... teach me how to whisper ...
antarctica ven paniyileaen sarukuthu nenjamnee penguin 'na pen dolphin 'naaaen kuzhambuthu konjamhey ..
nisha nisha nishaho ..
nisha nisha nishaadi penne en manathu engaeradar vilakkumaaadi en kaathal aazham ennasonar alakuma ? adi penne en manathu engaeradar vilakkumaaadi en kaathal aazham ennasonar alakkuma ? adi penne en manathu engaeradar vilakkumaaadi en kaathal aazham ennasonar alakkuma ? hey ..
nisha nisha nishaho ..
nisha nisha nishaazhagalinthidum karuvigalseyal izhanthidum avalidamani ilakanam asaivathai paarthaenaval uruvathil kuviyalilmalai sarivugal thoarpathaalvizhum aruvigal azhuvathai paarthaenaval maelae veyyil veezhthaalnila vøliyaai maaripøgumaval asainthaal antha asaivilum isai pirakkumantarctica ven paniyileaen šarukuthu nenjamnee penguin 'na pen dølphin 'naaaen kuzhambuthu kønjamthada thadavena raanuvampugunthidum oru šaalaiyaiathirvudan nuzhainthaayadi ènniliru vizhigalum kuzhaliyalpada padavena vedithidairuthayam thudithaayadi kannilunnaipøle oru pennaikaanbenaa èndru vazhdhennee kidaithaal , èn thaesam pølae unnai naesipaen .. antarctica ven paniyileaen šarukuthu nenjamnee penguin 'na pen dølphin 'naaaen kuzhambuthu kønjamhey ..
nisha nisha nishahø ..
nisha nisha nishaadi penne èn manathu èngaeradar vilakkumaaadi èn kaathal aazham ènnašønar alakuma ? adi penne èn manathu èngaeradar vilakkumaaadi èn kaathal aazham ènnašønar alakuma ?
as the two-year-old conflict grinds on , a look at the rebels during breaks in the fighting .
capt. william swenson was awarded the honor for his bravery during the battle of ganjgal , one of the deadliest battles in the afghan war. bandits , not rebels , but for the people living in the rukoko marshes , the cause richard , whose job is to collect charcoal , is one of very in the desolate landscape of tree stumps undulating away to " they are as poor as i am and have nothing to lose , " the rukoko marshes had warned everyone to vacate the area but nobody took them torched several houses in the area , " says anicet , one of the two other labourers .
on one of the ghost farms , cowpats dry in the sun , a few " the herders got the message and took their cattle to spate of killings were the work of gangs of " unidentified armed bandits " and but since a string of elections kicked off in may with opportunity for burundi to prove its democratic credentials and seal the end of " there is no doubt , the people we saw are not simple thugs , new kalashnikov assault rifles in the rukoko marshes and adjacent kibira forest. officer says as he trundles on through the swampy terrain .
how govt loses billions of shillings in export revenue na polycarp machira most of the dealings also happen during the weekend when there is little or no surveillance at all at the dar es salaam port and other places of inspections .
on a visit to kurasini and nearby areas in the city , one gets surprised by the numerous unauthorized yards used by the clearing companies . & ldquo ; we do stuffing at a reasonable price , that is why we get many customers , and as you also know this is bongo we provide exclusive services too & rdquo ; said a manager of one of the clearing and forwarding companies ( name withheld ) who requested anonymity due to the sensitivity of the matter .
players in the sector now link the secret stuffing of goods to the rampant ilegal trading in elephant ivory .
but the tanzania revenue authority ( tra ) is in the darkness as far as the secret dealings .
the pakistanis have monopolised the local market and now dictate terms of trade to producers and suppliers of raw materials as they have formed a network aimed at ensuring that the local tanneries are starved of raw materials .
by so doing , they let the raw skins pile at the abattoirs , creating the impression that the local tannery cannot absorb all the raw materials .
he added that a lot of problems normally begin when it is approaching budget session as the exporters know that the government may come up with a decision to slap a total ban on the exportation of raw skins and hides .
a recent visit by the guardian on sunday to the three major tanneries in the country reveals that unless serious actions are taken , the tanneries may cease operations , due to lack of raw materials .
refurbished in the late 90s , it is a very large and well-equipped tannery built to handle raw hides and skins from raw to finish .
mariam joseph , one of the casual workers at the tannery who talked to this reporter , expressed fear that there may not be any more work at the tannery unless the situation changes .
the mother of three children has worked at the tannery for at least two years .
the situation is not different at moshi leather industrywhere management has stalled the earlier expansion plans due to shortage of materials .
at himo tannery , at least two of three threshing machines for goat and sheep skins are currently not working due to lack of raw materials .
with the capacity to process 500 pieces per machine in a day , it operates at 150 pieces per day .
onesphory paulo , the company ’ soperations manager regretfully said sometimes they close machines due to the problems . & ldquo ; it is becoming commonto switch off all the machines until we get stock and resume .
so it may reach a time when the materials will not be available at all , & rdquo ; he said .
alzheimer 's disease linked to head traumaguardian expresshow are concussions linked to alzheimer 's disease ? huffington post uksee all 19 sourcesrelated alzheimer 's disease the us food and drug administration ( fda ) has approved the use of a new magnetic device , called the cerena transcranial magnetic stimulator ( tms ) that will hopefully help fight off the debilitating pain .
the extreme dryness of the air causes any heat that is radiated back into the atmosphere to be lost instead of being absorbed by the water vapor in the atmosphere .
the source of this energy is the sun , and because its heating effect is greater at the equator than at the poles , it creates a circulation in the atmosphere .
hot moist air rises over the equator and flows at a high level towards the poles , where it cools and sinks .
the equator is therefore a region of low pressure , and the poles are regions of high pressure .
the atmosphere is not a closed system .
it interacts with the land , the ocean , and the ice ; and the ice in turn interacts with the ocean.winds create currents in the ocean .
the annual cycle of freezing and melting of the sea ice around antarctica creates a vertical circulation in the ocean .
" antarctica is the coldest , highest , windiest , driest , and iciest continent on earth " pet of the week : trinity sun apr 15 , 2012 01 : 18 am edt warm weather brings out golfers thu jan 5 , 2012 11 : 18 am est sprucing up dc park fri oct 7 , 2011 7 : 18 pm edt wausa man sentenced for misbranding meat for school kids sun dec 29 , 2013 11 : 18 pm est man arrested for vandalizing in lincoln neighborhood fri dec 27 , 2013 3 : 18 pm est court halts appeal in nebraska workers ’ comp case fri dec 27 , 2013 1 : 18 pm est offices close wed. for new years day mon dec 30 , 2013 7 : 18 pm est new us laws run the gamut mon dec 30 , 2013 5 : 18 pm est lex man dies of stab wound ; 3 men in custody mon dec 30 , 2013 5 : 18 pm est fewer fireworks stands open for new year ’ s mon dec 30 , 2013 5 : 18 pm est omaha zoo to host new year ’ s celebration mon dec 30 , 2013 5 : 18 pm est new year ’ s eve event first for music promotion group mon dec 30 , 2013 5 : 18 pm est ’ throw bags ’ deployed at area lakes fri dec 27 , 2013 1 : 18 pm est bach expects ’ safe and secure ’ olympics in sochi mon dec 30 , 2013 11 : 18 am est will you make a greener impact going forward ?
sun dec 29 , 2013 05 : 18 am est whats your resolution ?
sun dec 29 , 2013 05 : 18 am est looking to eat healthy or get fit this new year ?
sun dec 29 , 2013 05 : 18 am est bond set in fremont child sex case mon dec 30 , 2013 5 : 18 pm est new details released in infant ’ s death mon dec 30 , 2013 5 : 18 pm est monster jam preps mon dec 30 , 2013 7 : 18 pm est td run by 7-year-old voted top nebraska story mon dec 30 , 2013 11 : 18 am est officials : nebraska ’ s hog inventory up 3 percent fri dec 27 , 2013 7 : 18 pm est kearney archway museum to close for 2 months fri dec 27 , 2013 5 : 18 pm est the pilgrims were thankful they abandoned communism ; and we too be thankfulby montana news billings accidents from car vs car to car vs pedestrianby montana news inv metals receives positive metallurgical results and plans pfs on loma larga ...
promerica negotiates to buy control of ecuador lender produbancobloomberg 16 : 47 27-dec-13 how to get there : from suvannabhumi airport , bangkok , buses leave all the time for pattaya and cost 173 baht to jomtien or & cost 200 baht to the bus tgerminal on pattaya north rd .
avis offer a limo service for 2,200 or take a train from pattaya to bangkok 33 baht then hop on the overnight to the police can 't or won 't help you if you hire a jet ski then you sink it or turn sharply and it fills up with water .
the motto in thailand " whatever you hire whatever is damaged stolen or lost , you pay " so you hire a bike , or jetski at your own risk .
you can however negotiate a lesser amount which you are nuts if you don 't do but never say you will pay as then the price remians the same or can now go higher .
to hire a jet ski can cost you around 800baht per 1 / 2 hour but in september 2009 they want 1000baht per 1 / 2 hour .
good fun but don 't hit anyone swimming or damage the jetski as it will cost you .
there is no such thing as insurance for jet ski hire so you do so knowing if something goes wrong you pay .
if you blow the motor then its your fault so remember these things if youre game enough to rent one .
for my money stay clear of the damn things & there is a scam at the moment as times are tight at the moment .
as you will find when it happens to you hiring a jetski can be bliss or a nightmare .
many of the jetskis are thrashed by their thai owners and they can be bought second hand at jssr auction for 100,000baht or so .
but most people who hire them are never asked to see a check sheet of damage or any dents rips etc in the coulings etc so once you bring it back the nice ride can turn into a nightmare .
some times the thais will not even let you leave the beach but as you have no money you demand to see a tourist police .
in pattaya they have 2 foreigners on hand at the beach rd police station .
insist on it or send someone to bring them back ?
these jetskis in pattaya & phuket are thrashed and when they start using oil its easy to drain them and let you hire it ? ? ? --guess who pays & the asking price for a a new motor min 77,000baht .
[ pattaya useful tel numbers ] [ pattaya digital film ] [ pattaya english breakfasts ] [ pattaya best food ] [ pattaya tesco , big c ] [ pattaya beach ] [ pattaya tourist handy tips ] [ pattaya beach road ] [ pattaya best restaurants ] [ pattaya buffet dinners ] [ pattaya tesco , big c ] [ pattaya beach ] [ pattaya tourist handy tips ] [ pattaya beach road ] [ pattaya best restaurants ] [ pattaya bars ] [ pattaya jet ski hire scam ] [ pattaya hire cars / bikes ] [ pattaya driving license ] [ pattaya car hire ] [ pattaya motorcycle hire ] [ pattaya pickups & loads ] [ pattaya car / motorcycle reg office ] [ pattaya police & foreign volunteers ] [ pattaya scams ] [ pattaya property scams ] [ buying cars in thailand ] [ buying motorcycles in thailand ] [ pattaya bike week 2009 ] [ bang saen bike week 2008 ] [ fishing news ] [ check out bang saen ] [ more bang saen pics ] congo-k : exclusive news about congo-k with africa intelligence congo-k ’ s hydrocarbons minister crispin atama was clearly one of the big losers ( ... )
surely it started off wanting to stop the amnesty bill and succeeded in forcing the government to listen to " the voice of the people " .
it was the voice of the people because everybody but the & # 8230 ; dr gopa sabharwal , vice chancellor of nalanda university , talks to sarika malhotra about the setting up of the new nalanda university , a truly international institution of higher learning , and a place where new knowledge & # 8230 ; yingluck vowed not to give up working for reconciliation in the crisis-hit nation , where demonstrators have sought to unseat her government in a bid to rid the country of the influence of her polarizing brother thaksin — a billionaire former premier .
how should we handle national parks to support tourism ? na beatrice philemon right now mount kilimanjaro is the tallest free-standing mountain in the world so it can truly be regarded as the roof of africa and right now is a world heritage site , its outstanding features are its three major volcanic centres , shira in the west , mawenzi in the east and the snowcapped kibo in the centre .
if people will continue to cut trees especially in the national parks , it will be a big problem for animals and people in the future .
if there ’ s no rainfall animals will die .
bee-keeping is important to the residents of kilimanjaro as a source of medicine , sugars and supplemental income .
it is of high importance to conserve the resources in parks since humans are not self sufficient and so are the animals in parks .
tourism is one of the activities that have best withstood the onslaught of the crisis and one of the principal sectors for the creation of wealth and employment in the world , especially in developing countries .
america is under a curse : when a natioin no longer believes in godby j.d. longstreet tampa bay buccaneers head coach greg schiano reacts on the sideline in the first half of an nfl football game against the new orleans saints .
a two-year tenure in tampa , fla . , is all greg schiano got to prove his worth as an nfl head coach , a brief ...
tampa bay buccaneers greg schiano mark dominik timeline of articles results and drama trumped processes and effort in firing of greg schiano by ...
stolen identities used to get millions in bogus tax refundsby montana news al-shabaab leader calling for more bloodshed and destructionby jim kouri interested in showing off your cooking prowess ?
there ’ s still time to sign up for wally ’ s cook-off .
top storiesnews near youworldu.s.businesstechnologyentertainmentrobin robertsthe hobbitduck dynastykhloé kardashiandwyane wademartin scorsesekeira knightleybroadway theatresharksjustin biebersportssciencehealthspotlighttop storiesnews near youworldu.s.businesstechnologyentertainmentsportssciencehealthspotlightentertainmentbbc newssee realtime coveragebeyonce defends using challenger disaster audio in songbbc news- & lrm ; 12 minutes ago & lrm ; singer beyonce has justified her use of audio footage from the 1986 challenger space shuttle disaster in a track from her recently released " surprise " album.related beyoncé tuesday 's highlights : new year 's eve celebrationslos angeles times - by ed stocklynew year 's tv : ' walking dead ' and other marathonsusa todayin depth : what 's on tuesdaynew york timessee all 63 sourcesrelated dick clark ’ s new year ’ s rockin ’ eve new year 's eve in kampalauganda onlineit 's not too late to plan a new year 's eve celebrationmore new year 's eve eventsthe detroit newsin depth : why not toast your good health on new year 's eve ? dallas morning newssee all 77 sourcesrelated new year 's eve ani difranco cancels songwriting retreat at former plantationbillboardani difranco cancels plantation retreat after sparking outragehuffington postin depth : ani difranco cancels retreat at former slave plantationaceshowbizsee all 49 sourcesrelated ani difranco entertainmentwisesee realtime coveragekeira knightley claims feminism was a ' dirty word 'entertainmentwise- & lrm ; 30 minutes ago & lrm ; keira knightley has opened up about her view of women and feminism in a candid new interview .
the oscar-nominated british actress has claimed she felt previously feminism was seen as a " dirty word , " something she found " weird " .related keira knightley keira knightley splashes 4 millilon pounds on housebusiness standardknightley 's 72-hour twitter ' binge 'independent onlineopinion : keira knightley buys 4 mn pounds padtimes of indiasee all 120 sourcesrelated keira knightley kris wanted khloe to get nose jobbelfast telegraphkhloe hurt by her mom 's nosejob crackthe provincein depth : khloe kardashian : i need a fresh startcnn ( blog ) see all 200 sourcesrelated khloé kardashian © 2014 diocese of des moines , 601 grand ave , des moines , ia 50309 • 515.243.7653 • irin | film | conflict | kachin - still on the run 2 .
result of a study carried out by línea directa aseguradora amongst its customers during 2011 .
if your vehicle is off the road due to an accident , we will supply you with another one .
if you lose all the points on your driving license , we pay you up to € 500 to regain your license .
the skies over margate will be ablaze with colour at midnight on new year ’ s eve , ushering 2014 in with a spectacular firework display .
wondering what music to buy in 2014 ?
andy welch rounds up some of the new - and old - faces to watch out for the war and peace revival is to return to folkestone racecourse in july 2014 a plaque is set to be fitted on dartford train station to mark the spot where mick met keith and a legendary rock n roll band ’ s story began .
lilia martha cisneros muller - realtor in playa del carmen cnn-world - more headlinesyour lavish new year ’ s eve parties mon dec 30 , 2013 11 : 50 am est four men rescued west of guadeloupe after being lost at sea for six days click here for leafguard of the midland 'sfan page on facebook !
a few years ago , i had the honor of being a part of the usaf heartland of america band 's christmas show at the holland center .
at the end of the first half of the performance , i 'd come out dressed as the conductor from the polar express , we 'd invite all the kids to join me on stage , and i 'd get to read the book to them while the band flawlessly performed the music .
auxiliary bishop cautions youth on shortcuts to cash na aisia rweyemamu the prelate issued the warning in dar es salam yesterday at the dar catholic youth festival held at mbezi on the seashore .
it is not bad for the youth to keep in tandem with new methods of communicating but the problem is the lack of patience and focus in using advances in science and technology .
he urged them to be goodwill envoys in advocating for peace in the country .
become a subscriber today to continue enjoying all of the products the spectrum has to offer newslocal newsbusinessnation & worldnews galleriesstory archivemultimediavideosnews galleriessports galleriespeople galleriesoutdoor galleriesthen and now galleriesevent galleriesseasonal galleriesall galleriessend us your photosobituariesplace an obituarylifefeaturesentertainmentfaithfamilycelebrationspeople galleriescomicspuzzleshoroscopeseventssportsprep sportsoutdoorsgolfdixe state universitysouthern utah universityoutdoorshiking guideexploreoutdoor tipsnational & state parksoutdoor galleriesopinionblogs the search is on for a hit and run driver in almeria city .
the incident happened last week at night time at 11.15 pm . © 2012 cadran politic · rss · designed by theme junkie · powered by wordpress bulgaria news headlines bulgaria 's travails should be a sobering reminder to ukrainians : the eu doesn 't fix everything billionaire harold simmons , one of the richest men in america and a major contributor to the republican party , has died at 82 . the mortgage interest deduction is one of the largest tax expenditures in the u.s. tax code but the rate at which it is claimed and the average amount deducted vary widely across and within states .
more the push by niamey to renegotiate the agreements that tie niger to french nuclear giant areva is rekindling tensions around president mahamadou issoufou . ( ... )
the drama of areva ’ s hostages turned out well in niger on oct .
30 .
and the end of october was also the date set by the authorities in niamey and the french nuclear energy giant to complete negotiations on renewing mining agreements for areva ’ s two subsidiaries in the country . ( ... )
retained over a year ago to conduct surveys in the lullemende basin in the center ( ... )
the exclusion of the modem fa lumana party headed by the speaker of niger ’ s parliament , ( ... )
« previouslupta pentru influență politică și păpușile jocului strategic surkovian © 2011 cadran politic · rss · designed by theme junkie · powered by wordpressstock broker center - online brokers - barrons.com family dogs in fatal bullhead city attack to be euthanized mon dec 30 , 2013 6 : 19 pm est signed contracts to buy us homes level off mon dec 30 , 2013 6 : 19 pm est harsher droughts and rising numbers of conflicts with farmers are threatening the future of pastoralism in the sahel , but experts say that integrating crop and livestock systems can help sustain the livelihoods of herders and farmers .
two teens die in fatal natrona county collision mon dec 30 , 2013 10 : 41 pm est study : few americans understand fracking sun dec 29 , 2013 4 : 41 pm est campbell county hit hard by flu mon dec 30 , 2013 8 : 41 pm est 2 kemmerer teens dead in crash on icy road mon dec 30 , 2013 6 : 41 pm est nance and pokes down northern colorado , 72-59 mon dec 30 , 2013 2 : 41 pm est wyoming gets out of a drought in 2013 mon dec 30 , 2013 08 : 41 am est how do you connect with local government ?
sun dec 29 , 2013 10 : 41 am est lawyer moyer angles for trout but tilts at windmills wed oct 30 , 2013 02 : 41 am edt watch out for wildlife wed oct 23 , 2013 12 : 41 am edt sportsman touts ’ man month ’ wed oct 23 , 2013 12 : 41 am edt new y ’ stone ’ bile limit takes effect in 2014-15 wed oct 23 , 2013 12 : 41 am edt loveland police looking for information in series of thefts mon dec 30 , 2013 9 : 08 pm est denver sets up fireworks show for new years eve mon dec 30 , 2013 9 : 08 pm est vending machine customers react to new rules mon dec 30 , 2013 9 : 08 pm est man charged in fatal hit & run crash on christmas mon dec 30 , 2013 7 : 08 pm est no major storms for colorado mon dec 30 , 2013 5 : 08 pm est hospital warns of poss .
hep c exposure mon dec 30 , 2013 3 : 08 pm est warrant : mapps had victim ’ s credit card , $ 6k mon dec 30 , 2013 9 : 08 pm est spangler : minute to win it science challenges mon dec 30 , 2013 9 : 08 pm est feds giving co nation ’ s highest bonus for expanding kids ’ health coverage mon dec 30 , 2013 7 : 08 pm est pd : man assaults good samaritan in wheelchair mon dec 30 , 2013 7 : 08 pm est hospital asks some patients to get hep c test mon dec 30 , 2013 5 : 08 pm est colorado marijuana shops planning to open on new year ’ s day mon dec 30 , 2013 7 : 08 pm est official : backlog of gun id applications cleared mon dec 30 , 2013 2 : 18 pm est tv pitchman bound for jail ... again tue oct 22 , 2013 06 : 18 am edt contact 1stheadlines pawtucket was on an upward swing in 2013 | the valley breeze few topics are more polarizing than the pit bull debate , and pawtucket was at the forefront of the conflict in 2013 .
al alix , the bearded pit bull owner who was cited after complaints about his dog chubs , is suing the city over its 2004 ban on pit bulls , a law local officials have said led to a dramatic drop in the number of bites by pit bulls .
the arrival of tunstall and its hundreds of call center jobs was a big win for the city .
luring a $ 4.2 million medical center to division street proved a more arduous task , as leaders hammered out a tax treaty to make it happen. or have no professed faith .
he said he focuses on “ how i can be there for them and lead them to is do they have a faith background .
“ and i also renewal to go to holy sites and be more active texas is the nation ’ s leading state for relocations mon dec 30 , 2013 8 : 27 pm est overall number of rigs drops in the eagle ford and across the u.s. mon dec 30 , 2013 6 : 27 pm est cibolo to consider making a deal with walmart sat sep 7 , 2013 12 : 27 am edt ’ beautification day ’ to feature crime stats , clean up efforts fri jul 19 , 2013 8 : 27 pm edt sample 40-plus cultures at the folklife festival sun jun 9 , 2013 12 : 27 am edt ’ beautification day ’ to feature crime stats , clean up efforts fri jul 19 , 2013 6 : 27 pm edt fiesta celebration at mission san jos a fitting finale mon apr 29 , 2013 02 : 27 am edt create memories in bastrop sun aug 18 , 2013 8 : 27 pm edt take a trip back in time to smithville sun aug 18 , 2013 8 : 27 pm edt rodriguez , two other incumbents win re-election to hisd board sun aug 18 , 2013 8 : 27 pm edt pasadena , lamar ok bond issues sun aug 18 , 2013 8 : 27 pm edt parker apologizes for ’ nazi ’ gesture mon dec 30 , 2013 2 : 27 pm est popular texas tax break expiring at end of ...
mon dec 30 , 2013 08 : 27 am est texas ag abbott kicks off gubernatorial run sun jul 14 , 2013 8 : 27 pm edt manziel leaves mannings ’ football camp a day early sun jul 14 , 2013 8 : 27 pm edt ag abbott set to formally begin gubernatorial run in san antonio today sun jul 14 , 2013 10 : 27 am edt zara tanzania adventures ( zara tours ) has constructed a new and modern pre-school for maasai children in endulen village , in ngorongoro district , arusha region .
according to ansell the company would be contributing 20 per cent of the total cost of the school and & ldquo ; is proud to be working with partners to bring the maasai pre-school to the community . & rdquo ; zara tanzania adventures ( zara tours ) , founded in 1987 , is currently one of the leading mt kilimanjaro outfitters in tanzania and the largest safari operators in the country .
tajikistan a boy & # 039 ; s family joins msf to help him fight tb meningitis arvind kejriwal announces rs one crore compensation for slain copdaily news & analysismanoj kumar to meet arvind kejriwal to get justice ! times of indiasee all 78 sourcesrelated delhi newseconomyfinancehealth carereal estateretailwealthautosearningsenergymediapoliticscommentaryspecial reportsasiaeuropemarketspre-marketsu.s.asiaeuropestockscommoditiescurrenciesbondsfundsetfsinvestingfinancial advisorspersonal financecnbc explainsportfoliowatchliststock screenerfund screenertechmobilesocial mediaenterprisegamingcybersecuritysmall businessfranchisingfinancingmanagementvideolatest videodigital workshopu.s. videoasia videoeurope videoceo interviewsanalyst interviewsfull episodesclosed captioningshowswatch livecnbc u.s.cnbc asia-pacificcnbc europecnbc worldfull episodescnbcabout cnbcsite mapvideo reprintsadvertisecareershelpcontactprivacy policyterms of serviceindependent programming reportlatest news releasesrsscertain market data provided by thomson reutersdata also provided bydata is a real-time snapshot * data is delayed at least 15 minutesglobal business and financial news , stock quotes , and market data and analysis © 2014 cnbc llc . all rights reserved.a division of nbcuniversalpolice catch rainbow mall sexual assault suspect " praying the mass anew " bulletin catchesis series on the roman missal , third edition she however pointed to exorbitant costs keeping the service out of reach for the majority of tanzanians .
a coffin-maker at manzese in dar es salaam , shaaban orufu said the funeral homes buy the coffins from the makers and re-sell them to their clients .
a sample of the charges by some of the firms range between 300,000 / - and 900,000 / - for a coffin , 300,000 / - for a group of mourners per day , 200,000 / - for a minibus to carry the coffin and other people within dar es salaam .
arusha journos drilled on migration , refugee issues na lusekelo philemon ippmedia.com © 1998-2013 .
all rights reservedbook online with discounts for the top hotels and the best and cheapest guest houses in chiangmai thailand meals ..
rates : single 1,300 baht per night to 3,900 baht bouble 1,000 baht per but most states and localities don ’ t bother to seek medicaid reimbursement for that limited class of prisoners , an omission that deprives them of millions of dollars in potential federal reimbursement .
it ’ s not the inmates themselves but rather the states and localities that are the beneficiaries of the federal medicaid reimbursement .
heads of government reaffirmed their belief in the rule of law as an essential element for the protection of the people of the commonwealth and as an assurance of accountable government .
they also reaffirmed their support for an independent , impartial , honest and competent judiciary , recognising that an independent , effective and competent legal system , prioritising timely administration of justice , is integral to upholding the rule of law , engendering public confidence and dispensing justice .
heads denounced the dehumanizing and cowardly use of sexual violence in armed conflict and as a weapon of war .
new year gift from legowomen citizennasa budget cut may shutdown cassini and mars curiosityheadlines & global newsin-depth : 2013 : the year in sciencefinancial expresssee all 27 sourcesrelated nasa the ceo of engineering firm amec has warned of multiple barriers preventing the u.k. from creating a shale gas industry to rival that in the u.s. cnbc 's jackie deangelis discusses the day 's activity in the commodities markets .
nat gas continues to climb in the face of a cold winter .
oil was down on the day and gold managed to close above $ 1,200 / ounce .
newseconomyfinancehealth carereal estateretailwealthautosearningsenergymediapoliticscommentaryspecial reportsasiaeuropemarketspre-marketsu.s.asiaeuropestockscommoditiescurrenciesbondsfundsetfsinvestingfinancial advisorspersonal financecnbc explainsportfoliowatchliststock screenerfund screenertechmobilesocial mediaenterprisegamingcybersecuritysmall businessfranchisingfinancingmanagementvideolatest videodigital workshopu.s. videoasia videoeurope videoceo interviewsanalyst interviewsfull episodesclosed captioningshowswatch livecnbc u.s.cnbc asia-pacificcnbc europecnbc worldfull episodescnbcabout cnbcsite mapvideo reprintsadvertisecareershelpcontactprivacy policyterms of serviceindependent programming reportlatest news releasesrsscertain market data provided by thomson reutersdata also provided bydata is a real-time snapshot * data is delayed at least 15 minutesglobal business and financial news , stock quotes , and market data and analysis © 2014 cnbc llc . all rights reserved.a division of nbcuniversalsmalltownpapers - the oakes times , oakes north dakota javascript must be enabled for the correct page display a string of sexual assaults by men disguised as policemen led to a california law requiring uniform stores to ask for police id before making a sale .
oklahoma taxpayers will be able to go to website that will list corporate tax breaks and disclose how the state is spending its money .
" the huffington post " is a registered trademark of thehuffingtonpost.com , inc .
all rights reserved.jobs wanted in thailand to us as we know of many vacancies in thailand .
we wish to place the beginning of our mission on the internet under the protection of st. francis xavier , whose feast day we celebratetoday ( dec .
3 ) and who died desiring to go to china .
heis thepatron of foreign missions and isvenerated in china and throughout asia .
this effectiveness -at a distance- adapts well to our brand of news service , while being far yet near to the heart of the church in chinaand her people .
benga and killed a man and two women in cold blood , " pontien barutwanayo , a to the army two months ago two armed men who were hiding on their property .
the isale is part of bujumbura rural province , a stronghold of in a separate incident in gitega province two policemen on " there was an exchange of fire and one of the policemen was was " deeply concerned about signs of a returning climate of impunity , the & ldquo ; god is peace : let us ask him to help us to be peacemakers each day , in our life , in our families , in our cities and nations , in the whole world , & rdquo ; he noted .
the pope ’ s message reflects serious concern for a world where greed and rapacity is increasingly the norm , where killings are embarked on at the slightest excuse .
we are well aware of the increased poaching activity that has continued to defy efforts to protect the dwindling elephant and rhino populations in the country .
indeed as the nation prepares for the challenges of the coming year , it must come up with more effective strategies to fight the ever defiant poachers and so redeem its image , tarnished by the reports that accuse government officials of collusion in the dirty trade .
if albina kurmanbekova returns to kyrgyzstan , she knows that bridenapping awaits her . ( 12 / 16 / 2013 3 : 12 : 51 am ) metso and ferrostaal to boost mauritania 's loading capacity for iron ore with a new railcar dumper facility for snim the evolution of north dakota ’ s fund says as much about the state ’ s nordic heritage as it does its status as the nation ’ s second-ranked oil-producing state .
a third of north dakota ’ s residents are of norwegian descent , the highest percentage of any state , and norway is one of the world ’ s top oil and gas producing countries .
" thank you for having our lives at heart ! " : this is the greeting from china , sent to asianews by a priest recently released from prison . very similar messages come in frommany parts of asia where the human person is humiliated and the church and religions persecuted .
the economic crisis weighs heavily on many families in the world , and today , asking for your support embarrasses us . but without this service , many voices would be drownedand many lights dimmed . friends share everything , suffering and joys . even the poorest can dare to open up the horizon of their mission and heart .
it was a tough week for bar owners in douglas and makoti .
both communities ’ establishments were the target of burglars .
the first step to adopting a curfew for the city of garrison has been taken .
the pot at the end of the rainbow was overflowing .
the minister for justice and constitutional affairs , mathias chikawe stresses a point when speaking to journalists at his office in dar es salaam yesterday. church in the village of kichet , in dhading district , on 23 december , a few believe hindu fundamentalists set the fire as a warning to those thinking of are reluctant to meet our requests and are ignoring cases when the victims are government spokesman and information minister madhav poudel downplayed that the interfere with the investigation .
we are trying to figure out if the culprits were see also12 / 20 / 2011 nepalthe christian christmas in the himalayas by kalpit parajuli12 / 27 / 2013 nepal " collective " christmas for christians , hindus and buddhists by christopher sharma12 / 27 / 2011 nepalchurches overflow this year in the largest christmas celebrations in nepal ’ s history by kalpit parajuli 12 / 27 / 2012 nepaljesus ' birth celebrated by nepali christians , hindus and buddhists by kalpit parajuli 12 / 10 / 2012 nepalchristmas : nepalis discover the joy of giving to the poor by kalpit parajuli " if you count all your assets , you always show a profit . " ~ robert quillen my sons give me the best neck hugs in the world .
i love neck hugs from my boys .
and almost anyone can brighten my day with a smile , so in turn i try to smile at everyone i meet everyday .
" our greatest glory is not in never falling , but in rising everytime we fall . " ~ confucius.guest : 65.19.229.28 posted : 2007-12-27 09 : 15 : 05 two blondes standing on the river bank .
one on each side of the river .
one yells to the other , " hey , how do i get to the other side of the river " ?
the other blonde scratches her head and shouts --- " dummy , you are on the other side of the river ! ! "
be not angry that you cannot make others as you wish them to be , since you cannot make yourself as you wish to be. of knowing that you stood for the things in which you believed the pursuit of happiness is the chase of a lifetime !
of all the things you wear , your expression is the most important .
if ever it feels like the end of the world , just remember , somewhere the sun is already greating a new day ..
privacy policyterms of useabout uscontact usemploymentlinksventure marketing © 2013 bhg , inc . all rights reserved .
lr zoo announces death of jigsaw the giraffe - fox16.com or was it just ' malta taghna ...
kollha ' ?
why did labour disappoint so early in the day with its meritocracy pledge in the first nine months of its administration ? ( 12 / 29 / 2013 1 : 38 : 58 am ) 7 .
the " friend suggestions " tell you to befriend people you don 't even know .
rss terms of servicesilsbee football vs. west orange-stark on the bee © 2013 indexmundi - all rights reservedanswers to frequently asked questions : | the spectrum | thespectrum.com alcaldes y gobernadores de oposición prueban que fascismo nace en medios privadosla disposición expresa de alcaldes y gobernadores de la oposición de trabajar en conjunto con el gobierno , dirigido por el presidente nicolás maduro , demostró una vez ... hace 31 años en vargas el cielo ardió con la tragedia de tacoahace 31 años , en arrecife , estado vargas , se produjo el accidente de la planta termoeléctrica ricardo zuloaga , también conocida como planta de tacoa , perteneciente a la ... tras 49 años de su partida la lucha libertaria del comandante carache está hecha millones un disparo de fusil de manera accidental le causó la muerte al comandante carache , el " chimiro " de sus camaradas , el jefe del frente guerrillero simón bolívar ...
tras 49 años de su partida la lucha libertaria del comandante carache está hecha millones un 13 de diciembre dos imperios europeos bombardearon puerto cabello este ataque , que se extendió durante 20 minutos sin una formal declaración de guerra , precedió al desembarco de tropas extranjeras que tomaron por asalto el castillo libertador y el fortín solano en puerto cabello , donde fueron arriadas las banderas de venezuela e izadas las inglesas y alemanas ética chavista orienta a los alcaldes a trabajar de esquina en esquina con el pueblo chávez dio esas declaraciones a pocas semanas de haberse efectuado las elecciones de gobernadores , alcaldes y diputados regionales del 31 de octubre de 2004 , en las cuales la revolución logró obtener la victoria en 21 de las 23 gobernaciones , así como en 270 de las 334 alcaldías celac : la madre de las repúblicas propuesta por bolívar y concretada por chávez la madre de las repúblicas que propuso bolívar y chávez concretó " ¡ somos una sola gran patria , o no somos ; o somos una patria , o no seremos patria ; o hacemos la única patria grande o no habrá patria para nadie en estas tierras ; entendámoslo definitivamente ! "
de pilín león a negra matea : 11 años del rescate del buque petrolero en el zulia in most legislatures , lawmakers vote either " yes " or " no " on bills , but in illinois , senators and representatives can hit a third button for a " present " vote .
now that quirk - not unique to illinois - has sparked heated exchanges among democrats vying for president . , natural family planning outreachworld organization of the billings ovulation methodbillings ovulation method association - usafamily of the americas nixed year 's resolutions | annabelle gurwitch i will not be paying down my debt this year .
it 's un-american not to own a 40 " flat screen and several game systems , so it would be wrong to deny myself .
anyway , why try and be responsible , i saw wolf of wall street and scorsese didn 't make a movie based on the life of the fbi agent who brought eric balfour down , because that guy didn 't get a book deal .
di caprio looked so much more dashing in his 3k bespoke suit than the gov 't. schmuck , it would be worth it to go to jail for a few years to get to look so stylish .
that was the message of the movie , right ?
i am making a personal plea to tattoo and piercing aficianado ambassador dennis rodman to keep visiting his bff .
the vicious and specious execution of his uncle and his associates has proven the effectiveness of basketball diplomacy .
can you also schedule in a visit to syria sometime soon , dennis ?
stopping in to visit taliban leaders in afganistan might be an inspired trip for you as well .
blackberry ceo john chen discusses the foxconn deal and how he will persuade enterprise customers not to leave the blackberry server .
he also weighs in on the security of the network .
newseconomyfinancehealth carereal estateretailwealthautosearningsenergymediapoliticscommentaryspecial reportsasiaeuropemarketspre-marketsu.s.asiaeuropestockscommoditiescurrenciesbondsfundsetfsinvestingfinancial advisorspersonal financecnbc explainsportfoliowatchliststock screenerfund screenertechmobilesocial mediaenterprisegamingcybersecuritysmall businessfranchisingfinancingmanagementvideolatest videodigital workshopu.s. videoasia videoeurope videoceo interviewsanalyst interviewsfull episodesclosed captioningshowswatch livecnbc u.s.cnbc asia-pacificcnbc europecnbc worldfull episodescnbcabout cnbcsite mapvideo reprintsadvertisecareershelpcontactprivacy policyterms of serviceindependent programming reportlatest news releasesrsscertain market data provided by thomson reutersdata also provided bydata is a real-time snapshot * data is delayed at least 15 minutesglobal business and financial news , stock quotes , and market data and analysis © 2014 cnbc llc . all rights reserved.a division of nbcuniversalobama calls out rep. pearce on immigration reform | kob.com plans for temporary use of brackley ’ s old fire station are being considered yourself a monthly salary which , if you are the director , will be can be reduced but it is up to bangkok immigration who will determine this a few months .
consideration is undertaken at the immigration bureau in bangkok or the province of the company 's principal place of business .
you are granted a unfortunately , denial of a visa extension cannot be formally appealed by an expiration of the temporary visa .
an application can be resubmitted after the applicant has remedied the areas of the application , which the immigration long stayers but you can only apply for the new retired visa outside the country .
the age is 50 years and you cannot apply in thailand although we have you come to thailand as you cannot obtain a retirement visa using a tourist you need 65,000 baht a month or 800,000 baht in cash in the bank here , no allow senior citizens to live for an extended time if they invest in a condo or this .
there is no " minimum income " like there is for a retirement tax and business statements assume you are employed in thailand ) : applicant has no criminal record in his or her overseas domicile .
this most tourism visas are issued on arrival at don muang airport for tourists but always use the thai embassy near you to apply for a longer with little or zero notice so please ask us for up-to-date info .
what may be the case for one person may be totally opposite for another person .
for law services bangkok .
on applying , a guarantee is required in any form , deemed proper , by the yuki oda in tokyo and liu liu in beijing contributed to this report .
why did the gop miscalculate so badly in the shutdown battle ?
gop desperate to defund obamacare now because they know its popularity is about to skyrocket i began my work in politics and the progressive movement working for civil rights and the end of the vietnam war in the 1960s .
and i worked hard to end one of the greatest foreign policy outrages of my lifetime -- the war in iraq . i believe that u.s ....
is there a difference between a third world autocrat and a wall street mogul ?
why the gop is running into a political box canyon -- and political marginality why attempts to obstruct gun violence bill will damage the gop the verdict is in : gop austerity proposals are toxic for our economy pourquoi george bush n 'a pas fait campagne pour romney ?
why the long primary slog is so much worse for gop in 2012 than for democrats in 2008 why rising gas prices could backfire on the gop in november why the war on birth control is a political disaster for the gop why gop collapse on the payroll tax could be a turning point moment the iraq war is over ...
lesson for progressives : yes we can .
democrats refuse to buckle to gop demands for huge cuts in social security , medicare and medicaid mayors who attempt to end occupy protests are on the wrong side of history why the united states is not greece or italy -- and shouldn 't act like it three reasons why it 's better for the economy if the super-committee fails to get a deal what do the earthquake , infrastructure and antiquated accounting have to do with jobs ?
gop willing to create economic catastrophe to protect tax loopholes for ceo 's who fly corporate jets sochi 2014 : luge hopeful qualifies as tonga 's first winter olympian a rising ghanaian artiste joey b has chalked down his success to a statement by michael owusu addo popularly known as sarkodie .
he describes his statement as a " prophesy " . ( 12 / 27 / 2013 5 : 00 : 14 am ) a tongan ex-rugby player who got a new name thanks to a marketing ploy for " coconut powered " men 's underpants in europe has qualified to compete at the winter olympics in russia next year . ( 12 / 19 / 2013 1 : 34 : 28 pm ) mcharo said the purpose is to motivate farmers to keep on growing the crop .
a better deal for kids in the budget ?
democrats and republicans say yes kazakhstan : nursultan nazarbayev to follow the way of german fuhrer ?
kazakhstan : review or chance to get out of the political crisis ?
the government of kazakhstan is determined to repossess energy assets the majilis or lower house of the parliament of kazakhstan commenced work mistress ' body may supplement the extradition request for rahat aliyev president nursultan nazarbayev is the head of the nur otan party kazakhstan : is the president 's daughter about to divorce rahat aliyev ?
why would nursultan nazarbayev want to be president for life ?
expert opinions nursultan nazarbayev is putting together a team of senior state officials to leave the country to « daddy has restored the balance » : on the latest staff changes in kazakhstan astana and beijing pooled efforts and rerouted oil and gas export from central asia kazakhstan is not going to chair the osce in 2009 nazarbayev : since the movie was made by a comedian , laughing at it is all right the tengiz carnage : some details of the scuffle in kazakhstan individuals who do not contribute to the aca may subscribe separately .
provision is made for free subscriptions for persons who wish to receive the paper but cannot afford it .
chesterfield girl , vsu gospel chorale to sing at mcauliffe inaugural mon dec 30 , 2013 5 : 28 pm est vandals hit hanover ’ s battlefield green mon dec 30 , 2013 11 : 28 am est faces in the business community : rebecca hough mon dec 30 , 2013 01 : 28 am est faces in the business community : micheal sparks mon dec 30 , 2013 01 : 28 am est faces of the business community : tommy pruitt mon dec 30 , 2013 01 : 28 am est faces in the business community : woody woodson mon dec 30 , 2013 01 : 28 am est many drivers not deterred by high cost of diesel sun dec 29 , 2013 01 : 28 am est free cab rides offered for new year ’ s eve mon dec 30 , 2013 7 : 28 pm est police searching for man who robbed fas mart store mon dec 30 , 2013 3 : 28 pm est overnight shooting ends in standoff on the richmond / henrico line mon dec 30 , 2013 3 : 28 pm est man shot in the head during waverly hunting accident mon dec 30 , 2013 7 : 28 pm est tim tebow gets new position , as sec analyst with espn mon dec 30 , 2013 7 : 28 pm est netflix to eliminate heaps of movies and tv shows from streaming mon dec 30 , 2013 1 : 28 pm est good samaritan helps dog hit by car on side of road , reunites with family mon dec 30 , 2013 7 : 28 pm est church document linksworldwide marriage encounterfor your marriageretrouvaillecatholic familylandthe integrated catholic life : a catholic e-magazine about integrating faith , family & workbirthrightproject rachel ( hope after abortion ) faith & family : the magazine of catholic livingewtn kidschristopher west 's websitetheology of the body institutetheology of the bodyinternational alliancetheology of the body for teenstheology of the bodytheology of the body for teens leadeship trainingone more soul pulling up to the driveway to ray and mary price ’ s a-frame house located on river road in rural oliver county , set the stage for an adventurous and creative encounter .
privacy policyterms of useabout uscontact usemploymentlinksventure marketing © 2013 bhg , inc . all rights reserved .
smalltownpapers - greybull standard , greybull wyoming course tips hat to veterans wed nov 20 , 2013 2 : 12 pm est study of determination tue nov 19 , 2013 8 : 12 pm est jail renovations to be put to a vote mon nov 18 , 2013 8 : 12 pm est one person dead in cahokia mon dec 30 , 2013 10 : 12 pm est police continue search for missing collinsville man mon dec 30 , 2013 6 : 12 pm est belleville trash service to be delayed one day mon dec 30 , 2013 6 : 12 pm est attention travelers : kampsville ferry closed due to ice accumulation mon dec 30 , 2013 4 : 12 pm est mondelez sells snackwell ’ s brand ; no terms mon dec 30 , 2013 10 : 12 pm est murphysboro man loses everything in sunday fire mon dec 30 , 2013 8 : 12 pm est illinois students develop ’ snow day ’ app mon dec 30 , 2013 8 : 12 pm est thompsonville woman dies in crash mon dec 30 , 2013 6 : 12 pm est illinoisans to get state financials in tax returns mon dec 30 , 2013 6 : 12 pm est questions about ’ 14 laws ?
ask our expert mon dec 30 , 2013 10 : 12 am est what happens in an arrest for suspected dui ?
mon dec 30 , 2013 10 : 12 am est top of the morning , dec .
30 , 2013 mon dec 30 , 2013 08 : 12 am est murder investigation in vermilion county mon dec 30 , 2013 8 : 12 pm est champaign county ’ s most wanted : shantez long mon dec 30 , 2013 8 : 12 pm est new years eve snow shouldnt dampen the party : bar operator mon dec 30 , 2013 10 : 12 pm est snowstorm moving into chicago just in time for new years eve mon dec 30 , 2013 6 : 12 pm est cta riders got $ 1.2 million in free rides thanks to ventra snafus mon dec 30 , 2013 6 : 12 pm est bruce rauner ad promotes charters , but cps clout call dogs him mon dec 30 , 2013 10 : 12 pm est winfield parish rescues church ’ s old frames for a picture-perfect ending mon dec 30 , 2013 10 : 12 pm est bricklayer ran construction company mon dec 30 , 2013 6 : 12 pm est too many activities for kids ?
mon dec 30 , 2013 6 : 12 pm est quinn anticipates campaign jabs in 2014 mon dec 30 , 2013 8 : 12 pm est hoges 2013 eulogy : start of something special for bears ?
mon dec 30 , 2013 6 : 12 pm est report : lovie smith considered favorite for buccaneers job mon dec 30 , 2013 4 : 12 pm est chicago weather : new year ’ s eve snowstorm threatens party plans mon dec 30 , 2013 10 : 12 pm est family dog killed in glenview coyote attack mon dec 30 , 2013 8 : 12 pm est cfd finds no evidence of hazardous materials at dirksen federal building mon dec 30 , 2013 8 : 12 pm est whole foods targets dominick ’ s shoppers mon dec 30 , 2013 10 : 12 pm est where to celebrate new year ’ s eve mon dec 30 , 2013 8 : 12 pm est cta offers new year ’ s eve penny rides mon dec 30 , 2013 6 : 12 pm est who is the blackhawks ’ first half mvp ?
mon dec 30 , 2013 4 : 12 pm est springfield ’ s ’ first night ’ safe way to start new year mon dec 30 , 2013 8 : 12 pm est hundreds of new laws to go into effect mon dec 30 , 2013 2 : 12 pm est a charity for the sole sun dec 29 , 2013 8 : 12 pm est law enforcement prepping for concealed carry sun dec 29 , 2013 12 : 12 pm est man killed in lemont crash mon dec 30 , 2013 2 : 12 pm est washington mayor surveys the damage : ’ our heart goes out to them ’ tue nov 19 , 2013 04 : 12 am est panthers raking through the rubble tue nov 19 , 2013 04 : 12 am est luciano : picking up the pieces is washington ’ s new mantra tue nov 19 , 2013 02 : 12 am est secretary of state ’ s office waives fees for replacement documents tue nov 19 , 2013 02 : 12 am est solutions hypnotherapy opens in quincy just in time for new year mon dec 30 , 2013 8 : 12 pm est money on the way to divert non-violent offenders in illinois mon dec 30 , 2013 8 : 12 pm est jim drozdz remembered mon dec 30 , 2013 8 : 12 pm est violators of the new illinois hands-free driving law will be ticketed mon dec 30 , 2013 8 : 12 pm est bill backlog growing again and so are payment delays mon nov 25 , 2013 12 : 12 am est trucks sighted at ubungo as upcountry travel worsens na malela kassim pili mswaki , who was travelling to lushoto in tanga region said on arrival at the terminal yesterday , he found a fusso truck that was destined to the region waiting for travellers .
meanwhile travellers heading to mwanza and musoma by musoma bus express demanded partial fare refund after the bus operators failed to depart at the scheduled time .
he claimed to be repaid on condition that he had suspended the trip until the next day .
year-end generosity might pay off at tax time , as long as you follow the irs 's rules on tax deductions for donations .
college costs are sky-high and rising ; " superfunding " is the new way to save for them , according to a jp morgan asset analyst .
in a shift of rainmakers on wall street , asset and hedge fund managers are edging out bankers when it comes to the size of year-end bonuses .
the odds of winning are astronomical , but tell that to the optimists and dreamers who lined up for the mega millions jackpot .
barbara marcin of gabelli funds , explains why she is betting long-term on xylem and apple .
" apple is continuing to show its strategy of delivering on the high end , " she says . $ 375 to eat at applebee 's ?
chain restaurants cash in on new year 's eve newseconomyfinancehealth carereal estateretailwealthautosearningsenergymediapoliticscommentaryspecial reportsasiaeuropemarketspre-marketsu.s.asiaeuropestockscommoditiescurrenciesbondsfundsetfsinvestingfinancial advisorspersonal financecnbc explainsportfoliowatchliststock screenerfund screenertechmobilesocial mediaenterprisegamingcybersecuritysmall businessfranchisingfinancingmanagementvideolatest videodigital workshopu.s. videoasia videoeurope videoceo interviewsanalyst interviewsfull episodesclosed captioningshowswatch livecnbc u.s.cnbc asia-pacificcnbc europecnbc worldfull episodescnbcabout cnbcsite mapvideo reprintsadvertisecareershelpcontactprivacy policyterms of serviceindependent programming reportlatest news releasesrsscertain market data provided by thomson reutersdata also provided bydata is a real-time snapshot * data is delayed at least 15 minutesglobal business and financial news , stock quotes , and market data and analysis © 2014 cnbc llc . all rights reserved.a division of nbcuniversal cambodia crude oil consumption by year ( thousand barrels per day ) the french examining magistrate emmanuelle ducos questioned hicham ibni oumar and mohamed ibni oumar saleh in paris on july 18 concerning a complaint they filed last year for “ kidnapping ( ... )
chad president idriss deby has just formed a new government with a lot of newcomers ( ... ) for tourists .
any other visa like non immigrant you need to get in your own so please ask us for up-to-date info .
for law services & [ [ cambodia visas ] [ visa news ] [ marriage & visa ] [ visa of privacy and our company will act accordingly .
see faqsmontana news association to contact montana news association el huffington post : última hora , noticias y opinión en español ¿ usas un dispositivo móvil ?
dirígete a http : / / m.huffpost.com / es / para recibir las noticias de el huffpost para móviles ..
la moncloa asegura que en dos años rajoy ha recibido tantas cartas de crítica como de felicitación ...
en total , 135.000 misivas ...
¿ qué diría tu carta al presidente ?
que el gobierno celebre y ponga su empeño en ganar el referéndum catalán nada incomodaría más al independentismo y , sin embargo , no habría respuesta más democrática a su reto ni nada le quitaría la razón con más firmeza que una derrota en las urnas .
hay muy buenas razones de la razón y del corazón para que cataluña permanezca en españa .
apoyamos la celebración de un referéndum con la máxima responsabilidad , conscientes de que si la opción elegida fuese la independentista , el gobierno de españa estaría obligado a negociar de buena fe las condiciones de una ruptura que no deseamos .
las piernas me temblaban desde el estómago y tenía la sensación de poder caerme en cualquier momento , fruto de ese aflojamiento de las fuerzas tras pasar un momento de auténtico miedo .
¿ sabes quién ha intermediado para vuestra liberación ?
no te lo imaginas ...
¡ ruiz gallardón !
no es que seas increíble si no fuera por tu cuerpo .
eres increíble gracias a tu cuerpo .
hay una diferencia clara .
crecí en una cultura en la que las mujeres poco agraciadas eran consideradas espíritus especiales .
una clasificación degradante que daba a entender que lo único que podía merecer la pena de ti era tu interior .
deberíamos andar con extraños , como cambio de actitud .
y llenar las calles y los lugares públicos de este nuevo espíritu .
no modificaremos el capitalismo financiero , ni evitaremos las deslocalizaciones empresariales , pero nos lo pasaremos mejor y tendremos más oportunidades .
el colectivo por fin comienza a asumir la realidad como base de su posición política , a expresar su aceptación de la nueva situación política , a asumir su responsabilidad en las consecuencias derivadas de su actividad [ delictiva ] , a aceptar la legalidad , a aceptar sus condenas ; en definitiva , a aceptar el estado de derecho .
una vez que el área euro , especialmente sus países periféricos , han dejado atrás la recesión , las previsiones anticipan que , por primera vez desde el inicio de la gran recesión , todos los países aportarán crecimiento a la economía mundial .
son las economías emergentes las que pueden comenzar ahora a ser foco de riesgo .
nos venden como algo positivo el posible incremento de la velocidad máxima a 130 kilómetros por hora en algunos tramos de autopistas .
esta posibilidad , que debe ser posteriormente reglada , en verdad oculta el favor que la administración hace a las empresas concesionarias de las autopistas , arruinadas .
cuando una pareja se rompe , nuestra legislacio ́ n y jurisprudencia lleva muchos an ̃ os resolviendo todo tipo de disputas sobre derechos y obligaciones en asuntos " cotidianos " : bienes muebles , inmuebles , reparto de dinero , custodia de hijos , etc .
pero no en el caso de bienes " peculiares " , como son los embriones en el caso de una pareja que haya sido sometida a técnicas de reproducción asistida .
en ' todo un viaje ' la actriz silvia abascal , víctima de un derrame cerebral , ha escrito una impactante declaración de amor a la vida y una rabiosa celebración del presente .
lo que el libro no ha podido recoger son las últimas alegrías : silvia ha vuelto al trabajo , como protagonista de un anuncio , y esa es una gran noticia .
la cosecha seriéfila del 2013 no pasará a la historia como abundante ni como especialmente buena .
como no todo es quejarse , aquí va mi lista de las diez mejores series del año con el deseo de que al final del 2014 podamos dar gracias al dios catódico por más estrenos , temporadas , capítulos e interpretaciones .
profesor de investigación , csic , en el instituto mediterráneo de estudios avanzados ( imedea ) para mí el estilo de vida mediterráneo parte del principio , no enunciado pero ejemplarizado durante milenios , de sostenibilidad , de la necesidad de disfrutar de lo que la vida ofrece de una manera pausada , comedida y compartida , para conseguir un estilo de vida perdurable .
siete de las declaraciones más dudosas del gobierno y la oposición durante el 2013 " leve mejoría " de schumacher , que no está " fuera de peligro " getty images " nadie puede obligar a nadie a ser madre " la moncloamonago irrumpe en el debate sobre el aborto para dividir más al pp grecia pondrá fin al rescate en 2014 y avanza que no pedirá más ayudasgetty la audiencia de madrid devuelve el ' caso blesa ' al juzgado de silva ... efe ... pero el juez seguirá apartado de la investigación hernando : " en 2013 las cosas han empezado a cambiar en españa " efe la tarifa de gas natural se mantiene congelada en el primer semestrephotos.com más déficit hasta noviembre que el permitido para todo el año encuentra la palabra del año en esta sopa de letra ( y si no pincha ) fundeu 23 signos que demuestran que tu mascota es tu primer hijogetty images via getty images 10 razones por las que no está nada mal la nochevieja en casashutterstock los gatos asilvestrados causan la extinción de animales en islas pequeñasgtres efectivamente , esto va a acabar mal ( vídeo ) youtubelos mejores ' fails ' del año no hay mejor forma de presentar a un perro ( vídeo ) youtube ¿ de verdad que el orgasmo es la mejor sensación del mundo ? photos.com somerton woman dies in yuma house fire mon dec 30 , 2013 8 : 07 pm est appeals court denies arpaio ’ s bid for a rehearing mon dec 30 , 2013 6 : 07 pm est bridge-replacement work to start on greenway parkway mon dec 30 , 2013 12 : 07 pm est man pleads not guilty in ahwatukee carjacking case mon dec 30 , 2013 6 : 07 pm est ahwatukee 2013 people of the year mon dec 30 , 2013 4 : 07 pm est chandler compadres are real santas to many youths thu dec 26 , 2013 12 : 07 pm est 12 / 31 : say goodbye to 2013 at westgate new year ’ s eve thu dec 26 , 2013 12 : 07 pm est mother of boy who died counters grief by giving to children tue dec 24 , 2013 2 : 07 pm est dna helps id man suspected of firing at phoenix officer wed oct 17 , 2012 10 : 07 pm edt adoptable animals in the valley mon dec 30 , 2013 2 : 07 pm est ban likely on wood-burning for the holidays mon dec 23 , 2013 6 : 07 pm est ban on wood-burning for the holidays mon dec 23 , 2013 2 : 07 pm est pinal county attorney seeks to hold mom in daughter ’ s stabbing death mon dec 30 , 2013 6 : 07 pm est marana woman killed in rollover outside phoenix fri dec 27 , 2013 8 : 07 pm est boyce thompson arboretum has lots on tap for new year ’ s day excursions fri dec 27 , 2013 2 : 07 pm est scottsdale council discussing ways to redevelop los arcos area mon dec 30 , 2013 12 : 07 pm est tempe man pleads not guilty in fatal party shooting mon dec 30 , 2013 4 : 07 pm est tempe 2013 people of the year mon dec 30 , 2013 12 : 07 pm est 2013 was a remarkable year for tempe fri dec 27 , 2013 2 : 07 pm est ’ hitler ’ s astrologer ’ author to sign book in tempe thu dec 26 , 2013 2 : 07 pm est in this case , it 's an alabama man who had his intestines transplanted to not only save his life but allow him to truly live it .
" the huffington post " is a registered trademark of thehuffingtonpost.com , inc .
all rights reserved.kbmr-am traffic russia cancels export duties for gas and diamonds to armenia the best thing about exploring a destination that ’ s not known to many is that you go there without any expectations .
you don ’ t have anyone telling you about the ‘ must visit ’ spots or the ‘ must shop ’ things . ( 12 / 24 / 2013 2 : 32 : 35 am ) 5.how us can join el salvador in combating international gangs kmfm is kicking off the new year with a shake-up of its visit our events , fetes and fairs section to see which event is closest to you .
don 't miss out on all the bargains !
placemat for use in the community meal , or for families one in the diocese of helena , one in washington ’ s diocese of yakima and another a traveling a knight or damehood might seem like a quaintly medieval way of rewarding a career in business - but the system has proved controversial .
newseconomyfinancehealth carereal estateretailwealthautosearningsenergymediapoliticscommentaryspecial reportsasiaeuropemarketspre-marketsu.s.asiaeuropestockscommoditiescurrenciesbondsfundsetfsinvestingfinancial advisorspersonal financecnbc explainsportfoliowatchliststock screenerfund screenertechmobilesocial mediaenterprisegamingcybersecuritysmall businessfranchisingfinancingmanagementvideolatest videodigital workshopu.s. videoasia videoeurope videoceo interviewsanalyst interviewsfull episodesclosed captioningshowswatch livecnbc u.s.cnbc asia-pacificcnbc europecnbc worldfull episodescnbcabout cnbcsite mapvideo reprintsadvertisecareershelpcontactprivacy policyterms of serviceindependent programming reportlatest news releasesrsscertain market data provided by thomson reutersdata also provided bydata is a real-time snapshot * data is delayed at least 15 minutesglobal business and financial news , stock quotes , and market data and analysis © 2014 cnbc llc . all rights reserved.a division of nbcuniversal egypt the egyptian population is exacerbated by islamic terrorists , says catholic church spokesman - asia news tawadros ii is discussing with the police the possibility of advancing greiche , the country is now being hammered by islamic terrorism .
" every day there is an attack , but the one against the police station was the worst , are trying to sow terror in the population , " the priest said , " in order to government 's decision to add the muslim brotherhood on its list of terrorist 2005 , the muslim brotherhood was on the us and europe 's list of terrorist as it should have been , it was all systems go in new mexico ’ s 80-68 win over grand canyon university .
in their final game of 2013 , the lobos feasted early and never trailed against the antelopes .
new mexico ’ s big men alex kirk and cameron bairstow had a combined 28 points and 19 rebounds .
“ there ’ s no question in my mind that the people who want the law enforced are on the defensive , ” said steven camarota at the center for immigration studies , which wants to reduce immigration .
but propeack thinks the tide has turned .
“ we ’ re not so much setting a trend as riding a wave , ” she said. the best in the state , and the growth in numbers eritrea 's ambassador to the uk and ireland rejects a report accusing eritrean officials of conniving in the trafficking of as many as 30,000 eritreans in the sinai desert . ( 12 / 5 / 2013 8 : 52 : 44 am ) the escalating crisis proves that secession is not a panacea for peace and democracy . ( 12 / 27 / 2013 6 : 12 : 49 am ) online abonelike-gazetehoşgeldi̇n 201401 ocak 2014 çarşambaanasayfaekonomifinansdış haberlerpolitikatoplumsektörlerkategori̇lerfinansne , nerede , ne zamangündembi̇k i̇lanlarıdünya ihtdış i̇lişkileremtiai̇şletme-yönetimmevzuatnews in englishgüncelyorum i̇ncelemebölgelerdenözel dosyalarresmi gazetetiger monitorbankacılık sektörübilişimdemir-çelik sektörüenerji sektörügıda sektörühaberleşme sektörühizmetleri̇nşaat sektörükimya-petrokimya sektörümadencilik sektörümağazacılık-perakendecilik sektörümedya sektörüotomotiv sektörüplastik-kauçuk sektörüsanayisavunma sanayiisigortacılık sektörütarım ve hayvancılıktaşımacılık sektörütekstil sektörüturizm sektörü17 : 48 - putinden , gül ve erdoğana yeni yıl mesajı17 : 32 - yılın yazar , fikir insanı ve sanatçıları açıklandı17 : 29 - filistinin prag büyükelçisi hayatını kaybetti17 : 24 - bulgaristanda asgari ücret 340 leva oldu17 : 22 - türkiye , avrupa ’ nın 11. zengini ! 17 : 16 - kuzu paralel devlet twitlerine açıklama getirdi17 : 15 - ötv artışı sektörü kötü etkileyecek16 : 38 - sayıştay tcdd raporu : gerekirse soruşturulsun16 : 03 - resmi burslu öğrencilere yeni yıl sürprizi15 : 54 - fakıbabadan türgeve 3 milyon liralık arsadünya ihtrobot giysi umut ışığı oldubergmannsheil üniversite kliniği 'nde deneme çalışmaları süren ve bilimkurgu filmlerini anımsatan özel bir giysi , omurilik felçlilerine birçok hareketi yeniden öğrenme imkânı sunuyorlufthansa , thy ile işbirliğini sınırlandırıyorrekabet koşullarını gerekçe gösteren alman havayolu şirketi lufthansa , türk hava yolları ( thy ) ile işbirliğini sınırlandırma kararı aldıenerjisa meets social safeguards in dam projecthusband-wife team of consultants helps the sponsor of the kandil dam project in southern turkey to meet and exceed international safeguards for families that lost homes and land.enerjisa , baraj projesinde sosyal koruyucu tedbirler aldıuluslararası danışman evli çift , güney anadolu ’ da yapımı süren kandil barajında projeyi yürüten firmanın alması gereken sosyal tedbirler konusunda yol gösterdi.chase in “ inferno ” ends in istanbul ’ s sunken palacedan brown ’ s new blockbuster takes readers on a wild roller coaster ride through three european cities as protagonist robert langdon seeks to stop a mad scientist from destroying the human race.cultural roads lead to aegean coastal towninhabitants restore old stone greek houses , churches and monasteries to their past splendor in ayvalik , on the northern turkish aegean coast , turning them into mansions , tavernas , and boutique hotels.sinan ’ s works continue to amaze visitors to istanbulottoman architect mimar sinan built magnificent mosques , mausoleums , schools of islamic learning , convents , bridges , turkish baths and soup kitchens for the poor.contractor renews istanbul with building projectsreal estate developer and contractor haluk sert renovates old buildings and makes the city ’ s slum neighborhoods livable with his as yapi group.turkish women filmmakers seek recognitionesra saydam and nisan dag , u.s.-educated and trained independent turkish film makers , produce movies in the u.s. and turkey for international audiences.russian artist displays works on his schoonerevgeny solodkiy shows his paintings of ocean-going vessels caught in storms , and huge rollers ramming into coastal cities on the deck of his two-mast sailboat and motor yacht.astas holding invests in prime real estate projectsled by businessmen vedat asci , the family-owned conglomerate has interests in contracting and real estate development , tourism , foreign trade , textiles machinery , energy and education.haydarpasa train station is closing with new terminalplans are underway to turn the istanbul 's asian railway terminal into a major shopping , cultural and tourist hub with five-star hotels , public parks , a convention center , shopping plazas and art museums.ilgaz national park offers winter resort facilitiessurrounded by pine forests , the ski resort offers local and foreign tourists a vacationland paradise at a high altitude in northern turkey with its spa hotels and mountain trails .
fashion school trains future designers and stylistsistanbul moda academy , located in the fashion district of nisantasi , provides academic and professional training for students who want to work in turkey 's huge ready-wear and apparel industry.father and son team up at art exhibitionin his 55th anniversary as an artist , mehmet guleryuz is to exhibit his works at a gallery owned by his son , kerimcan guleryuz .
the empire project art gallery will display his works march 7-april 27.1234sonraki sayfa dünya onlinedünya grubu hakkındaonline künyedünya gazetesi künyesiabonelikalışverişrssreklami̇letişimdiğer sitelerimizkobiden.comdunyastore.compcworld.com.trcomputerworld.com.trbyte.com.trdunyagida.com.trdunyainsaat.com.trdünya ekonomi tv : : : . : : : . : : : welcome to apanews.net : tv , news , photos how can i get my organization ’ s event listed in your calendar ?
what if i have submitted an item and it doesn ’ t appear ?
we reserve the right to edit or abbreviate submitted items .
see stateline infographic : state of the death penalty in 2013 “ there ’ s lots of ways for ( death row inmates ) not to be executed when the legislature has decided this punishment is not proper , ” dieter says .
“ it ’ s messy for a time … but it ’ s hard to see that a few years later they ’ d bring back the execution chamber . ” is “ a real blessing and a joy to participate in as a parish and as a diocese .
i know that my “ it ’ s really great to see that as a big group , ” a lot of cool people who are really into their ten new traffic cameras in abu dhabi to catch errant motoriststhe national10 intersections in abu dhabi get new camerasemirates 24 / 7see realtime coveragesee all 16 sourcesrelated abu dhabi ten things i know about you is a feature in the interrobang that puts the spotlight on a different student each week .
fill out the form below and you will be entered into our monthly draw for a $ 10 out back shack / oasis gift certificate .
your entry may be chosen to appear in an issue of the interrobang , or on the interrobang & # 146 ; s website .
note : you must be a full-time fanshawe student in 2013 / 14 to be eligible for the draw .
that ’ s good news for californians and for the obama administration .
how much can consumers expect to pay for individual coverage ?
in 1914 sir ernest shackleton and a crew of 27 set sail for the last unclaimed prize in the history of exploration : the first crossing on foot of the antarctic continent .
“ geopolitics of xxi century will be cosmo-humanist in its essence ” – about the power of information and policy of millennium iii with acad .
albert ignatenko tiberius puiu is a journalist and a translator , a member of the romanian society of balkan and slavic studies and of the association of scandinavian and baltic studies .
he published a book on “ ukraine and the ukrainians , ” which gives an objective account of the history of ukraine and tackles the issue of the holodomor , the great famine of 1933 .
he was awarded an honorary diploma by the ukrainian ... © 2013 cadran politic · rss · designed by theme junkie · powered by wordpress news : : news & events : : diocese of des moines justice ak ganguly writes to cji , denies chargestimes of indiaafter bjp and tmc , now congress wants action against ak gangulyzee newsopinion : minority report | just questionslivemintsee all 292 sourcesrelated supreme court of india protests outside justice ak ganguly 's office , effigy burntzee newsak ganguly put his hand on my back , tried to embrace me : law internibnlivesee all 277 sourcesrelated supreme court of india justice ganguly case : govt mulls sending presidential reference to schindustan timessexual harassment govt to send prez ref for probe against ak gangulysahara samaysee all 13 sourcesrelated supreme court of india home | about | search | site map | blog | discuss gondola shuttered ; skico searches for replacement part mon dec 30 , 2013 5 : 08 pm est pitkin county has spent $ 78k on front range flood aid so far mon dec 30 , 2013 07 : 08 am est aspen skiing cos message to expert riders : no straightlining mon dec 30 , 2013 07 : 08 am est changing of the historical guard sun dec 29 , 2013 07 : 08 am est turn to the left , turn to the right : ski fa-fa fa-fa-fashion sat dec 28 , 2013 07 : 08 am est alleged gun buyer in clements case due in court tue apr 30 , 2013 11 : 08 am edt teen accused of beathing grandma arrested mon dec 30 , 2013 3 : 08 pm est crimestoppers tip leads to arrest mon dec 30 , 2013 11 : 08 am est sage grouse meeting in rifle thu oct 31 , 2013 9 : 08 pm edt thief at cmu caught on camera thu oct 31 , 2013 3 : 08 pm edt avs goalie varlamov ’ s agent says allegations false thu oct 31 , 2013 1 : 08 pm edt preparing for tax season mon dec 30 , 2013 9 : 08 pm est carbondale eyes energy tax to fund projects mon dec 30 , 2013 11 : 08 am est da ’ s staffer pens 2nd novel mon dec 30 , 2013 03 : 08 am est devil ’ s thumb burns off snow , luring golfers to clear fairways mon dec 30 , 2013 03 : 08 am est work on riverfront trail to fruita begins sun dec 29 , 2013 03 : 08 am est vail daily column : you can be part of the competition mon dec 30 , 2013 9 : 08 pm est have fun , be safe for new years mon dec 30 , 2013 7 : 08 pm est the custodian of the two holy mosques king abdullah bin abdulaziz al saud has expressed his thanks to prince sultan bin salman bin abdulaziz , chairman of board of directors of disabled children 's association and its employees for the special versions prepared by the association on charitable works and support provided to the association by late prince sultan bin abdulaziz al saud ( may allah bless his soul ) .
crown prince naif was also briefed on nshr role to disseminate and promote the culture of human rights .
the audience was attended by a number of princes and officials .
the meeting was attended by director general of the office of minister of defense , lieutenant general abdulrahman bin saleh al-bunyan .
deland library readies for renovations mon dec 30 , 2013 10 : 10 pm est ex-dcf official reappointed mon dec 30 , 2013 10 : 10 pm est volusia , flagler officials say fireworks and new yeart mix mon dec 30 , 2013 10 : 10 pm est local new year ’ s eve parties to start early , end late mon dec 30 , 2013 6 : 10 pm est new year ’ s day no holiday from trash collection mon dec 30 , 2013 4 : 10 pm est air force reservist sues for discrimination mon dec 30 , 2013 6 : 10 pm est winter home burglarized mon dec 30 , 2013 6 : 10 pm est tepid fireworks sales for new years mon dec 30 , 2013 6 : 10 pm est report : sec network hires tim tebow mon dec 30 , 2013 8 : 10 pm est report : sec network hires tebow as analyst mon dec 30 , 2013 6 : 10 pm est f-16 now on display at titusville air museum mon dec 30 , 2013 8 : 10 pm est tim tebow joins sec network , still pursuing nfl mon dec 30 , 2013 10 : 10 pm est dad of tsarnaev friend killed in fla. writes obama mon dec 30 , 2013 10 : 10 pm est lights out for 60 and 40-watt bulbs mon dec 30 , 2013 8 : 10 pm est suspect in kissimmee kidnapping and assault arrested mon dec 30 , 2013 4 : 10 pm est suspect in kissimmee kidnapping and assault sought mon dec 30 , 2013 2 : 10 pm est year in review : objs top rail stories of 2013 mon dec 30 , 2013 6 : 10 pm est maitland promenade ii bought for $ 31.2m mon dec 30 , 2013 4 : 10 pm est year in review : top conventions megacon 2013 mon dec 30 , 2013 4 : 10 pm est aaa : expect higher gas prices to ring in the new year mon dec 30 , 2013 2 : 10 pm est ’ glimmer of hope ’ for medical marijuana in florida video mon dec 30 , 2013 10 : 10 pm est toddler drowns in pond behind his home get alerts mon dec 30 , 2013 10 : 10 pm est aaa to offer free tows to drunk drivers on new year ’ s eve mon dec 30 , 2013 4 : 10 pm est mount dora ’ s jordan ozerities to play in fiesta bowl with ucf sun dec 29 , 2013 2 : 10 pm est turn to nature for a respite from stress sun dec 29 , 2013 2 : 10 pm est fhp : leesburg man killed in single-vehicle crash sat dec 28 , 2013 10 : 10 pm est winter park capen house is on the move tue dec 10 , 2013 12 : 10 am est report : seaworld aquatica guests ripped off by credit-card skimmer sat dec 28 , 2013 4 : 10 pm est crackdown underway for intoxicated drivers tue dec 24 , 2013 6 : 10 pm est angry mom fires gun into the air fri dec 27 , 2013 12 : 10 pm est will seaworld face long-term ’ blackfish ’ backlash ?
wed dec 11 , 2013 8 : 10 pm est there ’ s a few new kids on the block thu oct 17 , 2013 12 : 10 pm edt newseconomyfinancehealth carereal estateretailwealthautosearningsenergymediapoliticscommentaryspecial reportsasiaeuropemarketspre-marketsu.s.asiaeuropestockscommoditiescurrenciesbondsfundsetfsinvestingfinancial advisorspersonal financecnbc explainsportfoliowatchliststock screenerfund screenertechmobilesocial mediaenterprisegamingcybersecuritysmall businessfranchisingfinancingmanagementvideolatest videodigital workshopu.s. videoasia videoeurope videoceo interviewsanalyst interviewsfull episodesclosed captioningshowswatch livecnbc u.s.cnbc asia-pacificcnbc europecnbc worldfull episodescnbcabout cnbcsite mapvideo reprintsadvertisecareershelpcontactprivacy policyterms of serviceindependent programming reportlatest news releasesrsscertain market data provided by thomson reutersdata also provided bydata is a real-time snapshot * data is delayed at least 15 minutesglobal business and financial news , stock quotes , and market data and analysis © 2014 cnbc llc . all rights reserved.a division of nbcuniversal congo crude oil consumption by year ( thousand barrels per day ) is it lack of follows or is it peer pressure ?
or perhaps is it a combination of the two ?
so what is the life span of a religion ?
looking at the pictures of the many “ dead ” gods , i can ’ t help but wonder if one day soon the figures of christianity will one day lay among athena and freya , a myth that we foolish people of the past believed in .
it is a pleasure to be here with you all on the verges of the rippling waters of te whanganui-a-tara .
it was an inspired choice to hold this event at te wharewaka o poneke . ( 12 / 4 / 2013 10 : 10 : 14 pm ) in projects throughout the county - not only leading to a healthier trekking out to the countryside - it can begin at home , even with a aspokesman said : " kwt aims to encourage people of all ages and abilities to get outdoors and reap the health benefits that the wildlife trust has also campaigned for a white paper on the homelatest newscosta blanca newsnews southletters to the editorsocial sceneclassifiedsairport servicewebcams on the coastcosta levante newscosta almeria newscosta del sol newsspanish national newsbritish scenecork talkinside spainmed tv guideliving in spainyellow pagespropertyphoto gallery uruguay president signed the law to legalize marijuana on christmas eve get ready for the marijuana boom to hit uruguaybusiness insider 01 : 47 29-dec-13 newseconomyfinancehealth carereal estateretailwealthautosearningsenergymediapoliticscommentaryspecial reportsasiaeuropemarketspre-marketsu.s.asiaeuropestockscommoditiescurrenciesbondsfundsetfsinvestingfinancial advisorspersonal financecnbc explainsportfoliowatchliststock screenerfund screenertechmobilesocial mediaenterprisegamingcybersecuritysmall businessfranchisingfinancingmanagementvideolatest videodigital workshopu.s. videoasia videoeurope videoceo interviewsanalyst interviewsfull episodesclosed captioningshowswatch livecnbc u.s.cnbc asia-pacificcnbc europecnbc worldfull episodescnbcabout cnbcsite mapvideo reprintsadvertisecareershelpcontactprivacy policyterms of serviceindependent programming reportlatest news releasesrsscertain market data provided by thomson reutersdata also provided bydata is a real-time snapshot * data is delayed at least 15 minutesglobal business and financial news , stock quotes , and market data and analysis © 2014 cnbc llc . all rights reserved.a division of nbcuniversal kent homes news december 2 , 2013 i am waiting to see if the jamaican government and the 13 jamaicans who were kicked out of trinidad will take their case to the ccj just as was done with barbados where a single jamaican was denied entry .
i am waiting !
it is known that we in the caribbean can at times ... © 2014 diocese of des moines , 601 grand ave , des moines , ia 50309 • 515.243.7653 • revoluția din decembrie  89 : pacatul originar , sacrificiul fondator & # 8211 ; emil constantinescu | cadran politic home vitrina cu cărți revoluția din decembrie  89 : pacatul originar , sacrificiul fondator & # 8211 ; emil constantinescu  nu am pretentia ca sunt detinatorul unui adevar politic , juridic sau istoric incontestabil , si sunt gata sa discut si sa accept orice documente , fapte sau marturii care pot lumina mai bine sau chiar altfel realitatea .
educatia mea stiintifica si religioasa m-a ajutat sa cercetez faptele în mod obiectiv , eliberat de ura sau intoleranta .
recunosc însa o anume încrâncenare în ceea ce am scris venita din durerea unui om care a trait în miezul evenimentelor si se simte lovit de acceptarea cinica a crimelor , abuzurilor , coruptiei si minciunii , sau de indiferenta la fel de cinica cu care sunt înca privite de catre o mare parte a societatii românesti & # 8230 ; .
am scris aceste carti de pe pozitia victimelor mintite sau speriate , care nu-si cunosc sau nu-si pot apara drepturile .
le-am scris de pe pozitia milioanelor de români cinstiti care cred în adevar , în dreptate si în demnitate .  emil constantinescu « previousa fi musulman .
islam , pace şi democratie & # 8211 ; alteţa sa regală prinţul el hassan bin talal next aleksandr dugin & # 8211 ; „ russia strongly reject any presence of usa navy in the blacksea ” © 2010 cadran politic · rss · designed by theme junkie · powered by wordpress diocese of duluth - catholic church in northeastern minnesota as new york gov. andrew cuomo ’ s tax reform and fairness commission put it , “ good tax policy , including a more equitable tax code , would limit exemptions and tax expenditures for the few and lower taxes for all taxpayers . ”
ivory coast ’ s energy and oil minister , adama toungara , met his ghanaian counterpart emmanuel buah in abidjan on nov .
6 to resume talks on the maritime boundary dispute between the two nations . ( ... )
ghana ’ s petroleum commission now has a new acting managing director , theophilus ( ... )
the coming year should see the eurozone slowly start to improve .
but the big question remains : what took it so long ?
the euro is within sight of a two-year high set in october and charts indicate that a sustainable uptrend is at hand .
newseconomyfinancehealth carereal estateretailwealthautosearningsenergymediapoliticscommentaryspecial reportsasiaeuropemarketspre-marketsu.s.asiaeuropestockscommoditiescurrenciesbondsfundsetfsinvestingfinancial advisorspersonal financecnbc explainsportfoliowatchliststock screenerfund screenertechmobilesocial mediaenterprisegamingcybersecuritysmall businessfranchisingfinancingmanagementvideolatest videodigital workshopu.s. videoasia videoeurope videoceo interviewsanalyst interviewsfull episodesclosed captioningshowswatch livecnbc u.s.cnbc asia-pacificcnbc europecnbc worldfull episodescnbcabout cnbcsite mapvideo reprintsadvertisecareershelpcontactprivacy policyterms of serviceindependent programming reportlatest news releasesrsscertain market data provided by thomson reutersdata also provided bydata is a real-time snapshot * data is delayed at least 15 minutesglobal business and financial news , stock quotes , and market data and analysis © 2014 cnbc llc . all rights reserved.a division of nbcuniversalvisa requirements for visiting nepal immigrant visas ] [ work permits ] [ visa to iran : hassan rohani appelle au dialogue avec les occidentaux le nouveau président élu en juin dernier , et qui prêtait serment ce dimanche après-midi 4 août , a déclaré que la seule façon de communiquer avec son pays était le dialogue et non les sanctions .
il faisait référence aux sanctions économiques infligées à l 'iran depuis que la république a lancé son programme nucléaire controversé .
un message bien accueilli par les etats-unis , un des il y a eu comme un regain de chaleur entre les deux etats .
washington ne pouvait évidemment pas envoyer de représentant étant donné l 'absence de mais pour la maison blanche , & bdquo ; l 'investiture de rohani représente une chance pour l 'iran d 'agir rapidement pour calmer les inquiétudes sur son programme nucléaire « .
washington assure aussi qu 'il serait un partenaire de bonne volonté si le nouveau gouvernement choisissait de répondre à ses obligations internationales .
autrement dit , si l 'iran se montrait plus transparent sur le dans son discours devant les députés , hassan rohani a appelé au dialogue & bdquo ; sur un pied d 'égalité « et dans & bdquo ; le respect mutuel pour faire baisser les hostilités « .
et cela après huit ans de tension avec ahmadinejad . & bdquo ; on ne peut pas contraindre le peuple iranien à abdiquer par des sanctions et des menaces de guerre , a déclaré le président iranien .
un peuple qui , par sa solidarité nationale .
la seule solution pour entretenir des relations avec bilatérale et l ’ abandon des hostilités .
je le dis clairement : si vous voulez une réponse appropriée , n 'utilisez pas le langage des sanctions , mais plutôt un signe qui ne trompe pas : au poste clé de ministre des affaires étrangères , rohani a nommé mohamed javad zarif , ancien diplomate à l 'onu , bien connu des le nouveau président a dit le caractère futile des sanctions sans précédent qui étranglent l 'économie du pays .
le président iranien a ajouté que l ’ iran n ’ a jamais cherché la guerre avec le monde , une manière de rassurer israël qui accuse téhéran de chercher à fabriquer l ’ arme atomique pour l ’ attaquer .
enfin , il a voulu rassurer les pays arabes du golfe persique en affirmant que l ’ iran ne cherchait pas à changer le régime politique et les frontières des pays la présidence américaine a félicité le peuple iranien & bdquo ; pour avoir fait entendre sa voix « et a souligné enfin que & bdquo ; rohani avait bien compris son climate change may be to blame for disappearance of antarctic silverfish once upon a time , as the story goes , antarctic silverfish swam by the thousands in places like arthur harbor at the northern end of the peninsula .
like other parts of the polar food web ãƒâ ¢ € ã ¢ € â  such as adélie penguins and shrimp-like krill ãƒâ ¢ € ã ¢ € â  the silverfish rely on sea ice for parts of their lifecycle .
for example , the sea ice offers cover when the eggs hatch in november , torres noted .
ãƒâ ¢ € ã … â € œit tells me that the population isnãƒâ ¢ € ã ¢ â € žâ ¢ t getting any new recruits , ãƒâ ¢ € ã ‚ â  he said .
ãƒâ ¢ € ã … â € œwhat weãƒâ ¢ € ã ¢ â € žâ ¢ re looking at is a population that is not a healthy one.ãƒâ ¢ € ã ‚ â  the researchers are keenly interested in figuring out where the charcot and avian silverfish populations come from .
that job largely falls to julian ashford , a professor of oceanography at old dominion university .
ãƒâ ¢ € ã … â € œit may be that similar events are driving the pleuragramma , ãƒâ ¢ € ã ‚ â  ashford noted .
ãƒâ ¢ € ã … â € œwhen this fish is missing from the smorgasbord for penguins and other seabirds , [ the predators ] tend to decline in numbers , ãƒâ ¢ € ã ‚ â  he said .
ãƒâ ¢ € ã … â € œthe silverfish is the only antarctic coastal pelagic fish that is accessible to all predators .
it is extremely important.ãƒâ ¢ € ã ‚ â  new year honours list : do uk knighthoods matter ? text sizepublished : tuesday , 31 dec 2013 | 5 : 57 am et newseconomyfinancehealth carereal estateretailwealthautosearningsenergymediapoliticscommentaryspecial reportsasiaeuropemarketspre-marketsu.s.asiaeuropestockscommoditiescurrenciesbondsfundsetfsinvestingfinancial advisorspersonal financecnbc explainsportfoliowatchliststock screenerfund screenertechmobilesocial mediaenterprisegamingcybersecuritysmall businessfranchisingfinancingmanagementvideolatest videodigital workshopu.s. videoasia videoeurope videoceo interviewsanalyst interviewsfull episodesclosed captioningshowswatch livecnbc u.s.cnbc asia-pacificcnbc europecnbc worldfull episodescnbcabout cnbcsite mapvideo reprintsadvertisecareershelpcontactprivacy policyterms of serviceindependent programming reportlatest news releasesrsscertain market data provided by thomson reutersdata also provided bydata is a real-time snapshot * data is delayed at least 15 minutesglobal business and financial news , stock quotes , and market data and analysis © 2014 cnbc llc . all rights reserved.a division of nbcuniversal croatia news headlines number , for rent or purchase .
individuals wear a bracelet or still , " piece of me " is not immune to nostalgia , one of the prime currencies in las vegas entertainment .
it includes several callbacks to the 1990s and early 2000s , including plaid shirts tied around dancers ' waists and a recap of the skin-tight sparkling bodysuit spears wore in the " toxic " music video .
on his way out , shane sodeman , of san diego , complained that spears hadn 't donned the sexy school girl outfit or the skintight orange jumpsuit she wore in sexier days .
a version of the suit was on display in the lobby .
she spent downtime marching around stage and posing , banishing the specter of her disastrous 2007 mtv performance , which also took place in las vegas and was a career low point .
casino executives say the gig may be extended if it proves a success .
reform for a chance to live - an undocuqueer experience “ we ’ re not technophobic and i think drones can be employed for our benefit , ” says becker , “ but we can ’ t forget our privacy rights . ”
president uhuru kenyatta has ordered the military to evacuate kenyans trapped in south sudan , as the government confirmed that at least two kenyans had died and six others injured in the deepening crisis .
mourning the passing of the usa : the darkened city on a hillby j.d. longstreet stateline -- tuesday is a big election day for states , and not just wisconsin © 2013 indexmundi - all rights reserveddocument sans nomgoloading ... > > view all results for " " enter multiple symbols separated by commaslondon quotes now availablego ' tis the season for festive gatherings — and probably indulging in a second glass of wine .
thinking of driving ?
try one of these apps first .
newseconomyfinancehealth carereal estateretailwealthautosearningsenergymediapoliticscommentaryspecial reportsasiaeuropemarketspre-marketsu.s.asiaeuropestockscommoditiescurrenciesbondsfundsetfsinvestingfinancial advisorspersonal financecnbc explainsportfoliowatchliststock screenerfund screenertechmobilesocial mediaenterprisegamingcybersecuritysmall businessfranchisingfinancingmanagementvideolatest videodigital workshopu.s. videoasia videoeurope videoceo interviewsanalyst interviewsfull episodesclosed captioningshowswatch livecnbc u.s.cnbc asia-pacificcnbc europecnbc worldfull episodescnbcabout cnbcsite mapvideo reprintsadvertisecareershelpcontactprivacy policyterms of serviceindependent programming reportlatest news releasesrsscertain market data provided by thomson reutersdata also provided bydata is a real-time snapshot * data is delayed at least 15 minutesglobal business and financial news , stock quotes , and market data and analysis © 2014 cnbc llc . all rights reserved.a division of nbcuniversal u.s. population grows at slowest rate since the great depression america 's population is growing at its slowest rate in decades , and the sluggish economy is mostly to blame , according to one expert .
the armenian government ordered aid to the farms in armavir province affected by hailstorm african union peacekeepers in somalia patrol in a tank as control only parts of mogadishu .
the spokesperson for the ugandan people ’ s the addition of the 4,000 amisom troops meets a december request by the un security council to bring the force to 12,000 soldiers .
a far short of the 20,000 the african union estimated to be necessary at the start yoweri museveni to provide the remaining troops if supported by the available , then uganda is ready to do so because we have the will and the particularly ghana and nigeria , to commit to earlier pledges of troops for the to create an islamic state on the horn of africa .
burundi réalités ( c ) 2006 all rights reserved dış haberler haberleri online abonelike-gazetehoşgeldi̇n 201401 ocak 2014 çarşambaanasayfaekonomifinansdış haberlerpolitikatoplumsektörlerkategori̇lerfinansne , nerede , ne zamangündembi̇k i̇lanlarıdünya ihtdış i̇lişkileremtiai̇şletme-yönetimmevzuatnews in englishgüncelyorum i̇ncelemebölgelerdenözel dosyalarresmi gazetetiger monitorbankacılık sektörübilişimdemir-çelik sektörüenerji sektörügıda sektörühaberleşme sektörühizmetleri̇nşaat sektörükimya-petrokimya sektörümadencilik sektörümağazacılık-perakendecilik sektörümedya sektörüotomotiv sektörüplastik-kauçuk sektörüsanayisavunma sanayiisigortacılık sektörütarım ve hayvancılıktaşımacılık sektörütekstil sektörüturizm sektörü17 : 48 - putinden , gül ve erdoğana yeni yıl mesajı17 : 32 - yılın yazar , fikir insanı ve sanatçıları açıklandı17 : 29 - filistinin prag büyükelçisi hayatını kaybetti17 : 24 - bulgaristanda asgari ücret 340 leva oldu17 : 22 - türkiye , avrupa ’ nın 11. zengini ! 17 : 16 - kuzu paralel devlet twitlerine açıklama getirdi17 : 15 - ötv artışı sektörü kötü etkileyecek16 : 38 - sayıştay tcdd raporu : gerekirse soruşturulsun16 : 03 - resmi burslu öğrencilere yeni yıl sürprizi15 : 54 - fakıbabadan türgeve 3 milyon liralık arsadış haberlerputin 'den , gül ve erdoğan 'a yeni yıl mesajıcumhurbaşkanı gül ve başbakan erdoğan 'ın yeni yılını kutlayan rusya devlet başkanı putin , yeni yıl mesajında iki ülke arasındaki politik diyaloğun ve karşılıklı ilişkilerin geliştiğini vurguladıfilistin 'in prag büyükelçisi hayatını kaybettiçek cumhuriyeti 'nin başkenti prag 'daki bir apartman dairesinde meydana gelen patlamada yaralanan filistin büyükelçisi cemil el-cemal 'in öldüğü bildirildibulgaristan 'da asgari ücret 340 leva olduavrupa i̇statistik ofisi ( eurostat ) verilerine göre , yapılan zamma rağmen avrupa 'da en düşük asgari ücret bulgaristan 'da veriliyorirak 'ta bu kez askerle aşiret çatıştıenbar 'ın çeşitli bölgelerinde kendilerine " aşiret devrimcileri " adı veren silahlı kişiler ile felluce 'nin el-kereme köyüne girişi sırasında bölgede bulunan askerler arasında çatışma çıktıletonya yeni yılda euro bölgesi 'ne resmen girdii̇ngiltere 'den i̇skoçya 'ya ' ayrılmayın ' mesajıi̇ngiltere başbakanı david cameron , i̇skoç halkının , 18 eylül 2014'de birleşik krallık 'tan bağımsız olup olmayacağına karar vereceği referanduma ilişkin , i̇skoç halkına , ' kalmanızı istiyoruz ' mesajı verdimısır , referandumu danıştay 'a taşıdımısır i̇dari mahkemesi , referandumun durdurulması için açılan dava dosyalarını , danıştay 'a gönderdiabd , güney sudan için kaygı duyuyorbeyaz saray , güney sudan 'daki güvenlik vaziyetinden " derin kaygı " duyduğunu belirtti.yunanistan ab dönem başkanlığı 'nı devraldıyunanistan , avrupa birliği dönem başkanlığı görevini litvanya ’ dan devraldı .
yunanistan , 30 haziran 2014 tarihine kadar ab dönem başkanlığı 'nı yürütecekabd 'de 40 bin yeni kanun yürürlüğe giriyorabd 'de yeni yılla birlikte 40 bin yeni kanun yürürlüğe giriyor .
ülkenin farklı eyaletlerinde yürürlüğe girecek birbirinden ilginç yasalar dikkati çekiyorkazakistan yeni yıla havai fişeklerle girdikazakistan türkiye saatiyle 20 : 00'de 2014'e girmenin coşkusunu yaşadıetiyopya 'da gazeteciye hapis cezasıetiyopya 'da gazetecileri koruma komitesi , ' asılsız söylentiler yaydığı ' gerekçesiyle hapse mahkum edilen etiyopyalı gazetecinin serbest bırakılmasını istedi2 ülke 2014'e ' merhaba ' dediyeni yıla ilk giren ülke yeni zelanda oldu .
avustralya ’ nın başkenti sidney ise dünyada yeni yılı karşılayan ilk büyük şehir olduhannover 96 tayfun korkut ile anlaştıalmanya 1 .
futbol ligi ( bundesliga ) takımlarında hannover 96'nın teknik direktörlüğüne eski milli futbolcu tayfun korkut getirildisosyal yardımlardan faydalanmaları zorlaştırılıyori̇ngiltere 'de göçmenlerin sosyal yardımlardan haksız yararlanmasına engel olmak amacıyla yeni düzenlemeler yürürlüğe girecek12345678sonraki sayfa wall street journal2014'te almamanız gereken 10 şeyyabancıların sahip olduğu 10 amerikan markasıdünya 2014 yılına böyle ' merhaba ' dedişampanya hakkında bilmediğiniz 5 şeyeuro bölgesi 'nin üye sayısı yarın 18 oluyordış haberleravustralyaasyayabancı şirketleruluslararası piyasalaruluslararası kuruluşlarortadoğuafrikaglobal ekonomiamerikaavrupabilançolar dünya onlinedünya grubu hakkındaonline künyedünya gazetesi künyesiabonelikalışverişrssreklami̇letişimdiğer sitelerimizkobiden.comdunyastore.compcworld.com.trcomputerworld.com.trbyte.com.trdunyagida.com.trdunyainsaat.com.trdünya ekonomi tvhome page - fox16.com wendi.guest : 97.123.74.168 posted : 2012-03-21 08 : 17 : 58 we are also coming at the end of april for bnsf . my kids and i will stay here in mo until the end of the school year and will then start the search for homes in june . are there houses to rent , or is it mostly apartments ?
we are a family of 5 and would like to buy , but will most likely need to rent first . it looks beautiful in mt from all the pics and we are looking forward to he move ! !
newseconomyfinancehealth carereal estateretailwealthautosearningsenergymediapoliticscommentaryspecial reportsasiaeuropemarketspre-marketsu.s.asiaeuropestockscommoditiescurrenciesbondsfundsetfsinvestingfinancial advisorspersonal financecnbc explainsportfoliowatchliststock screenerfund screenertechmobilesocial mediaenterprisegamingcybersecuritysmall businessfranchisingfinancingmanagementvideolatest videodigital workshopu.s. videoasia videoeurope videoceo interviewsanalyst interviewsfull episodesclosed captioningshowswatch livecnbc u.s.cnbc asia-pacificcnbc europecnbc worldfull episodescnbcabout cnbcsite mapvideo reprintsadvertisecareershelpcontactprivacy policyterms of serviceindependent programming reportlatest news releasesrsscertain market data provided by thomson reutersdata also provided bydata is a real-time snapshot * data is delayed at least 15 minutesglobal business and financial news , stock quotes , and market data and analysis © 2014 cnbc llc . all rights reserved.a division of nbcuniversalmarkets data center future source - barrons.com how will we use it ?
with whom will we be communicating ?
now that we know the basics of this new language , maybe we are ready to begin the conversation .... again ?
the mit center for art , science & technology ( cast ) and the mit department of architecture co-sponsored a video that was featured at the " advances in archite ...
find out more about me and my books at my website http : / / www.shoorayner.com.
what is geometry really about ?
is it pictures or visual patterns ?
or constructions ?
or simply theorems ?
in this lecture , we suggest that geometry is , at its ... 자유롭게 표현해 달라고 하셔서 시간의 흐름과 시점의 흐름으로 크게 방향을 잡았고 일종의 감독판 개념으로 더 자유롭게 손댄것이라 이펙트도 더 과하게 넣고 인트로와 크레딧은 즉흥적으로 만들었는데 .. 본영상 느낌과는 조금 다르지만 나름 마음에 드네요 순천만 다이제스트 " garden of the earth " 는 조금더 무난하게 표현되었습니다. garden of the earth 영상은 ' ( 주 ) 시공미디어가 2013.04에 출간한 이라는 책 속에서 만날 수 있습니다 ' dmz wild 임완호 감독순천만 총괄 / 광주 대학교 조대연 교수 ‘ poet of geometry ’ by cole gerst is an amazing tribute to buckminster fuller & # 215 ; goloading ... > > view all results for " " enter multiple symbols separated by commaslondon quotes now availablego stateline — as drought lingers , plains states rush to save ogallala aquifer see usgs mapusgs map [ x ] & # 160 ; where water levels are changingthis map gives a geographic snapshot of where and how widespread the impacted places are.return to the article . & # 160 ; & # 160 ; if the ogallala dries up ?
folks in the region don ’ t mince words .
“ that would be devastating , ” said nebraska state sen. tom carlson , who has proposed the task force .
“ we can ’ t let it happen .
we won ’ t let it happen . ”
“ the implications are profound , ” said kansas gov. sam brownback in an interview .
“ it is time to act . ”
for more than two decades , that ’ s what brownback has been trying to do — first as the state ’ s agriculture secretary , where he learned about the problem in the late 1980s , then as a u.s. senator and now as governor in the nation ’ s breadbasket .
but conserving such a vast resource is as difficult as it is important , particularly as brownback looks to expand kansas ’ economy , the straightforward goal of any state executive .
the ogallala ’ s future may ultimately come down to the collective actions of a checkerboard of tiny jurisdictions like sheridan , the guinea pig in brownback ’ s policy .
the king also received al shafi family , led by undersecretary of 46th regiment of national guard shafi bin salem al shafi and his brothers , who expressed their thanks to and appreciation of the king for his condolences to them on the death of their father , sheikh salem bin shafi al shafi , commander of the 46th regiment .
the king prayed to allah almighty to bless the soul of the deceased commander .
ain-al-yaqeen | about us | archive ain al yaqeen this is kent | profile for sevenoaks chronicle | sevenoaks chronicle chronicle “ documents found in meth house bare inner workings of dark money group ” — pro publica and frontline does one not have to belong to the assn ?
in other words if you own a house there can you be fully responsible for it ?
do you own the land it sits on ?
can you modify the house inside or out any way you wish ?
can you add on to the exterior to the house such as double the garage size ?
can you build a separate garage out back ?
can you opt out of paying assn. dues ?
if you own the land the house sits on how do you know the lot size ? .guest : 75.104.160.36 posted : 2011-03-08 03 : 17 : 35 you can call them and ask any questions that you have about their operations .
you can buy a home that isn 't a part of the association .
as for the other i know that you don 't own the land under the house ( its cheap for a reason ) .
if you aren 't part of the association , i guess that you can do anything to your house that you want .
since i don 't expect to build onto my home i wouldn 't know how that works .
i do know that i have landscaped my yard , i have added features to the yard , my neighbor 's have a rather large shed behind the house and i have seen others that have made changes .
so , i would check things out .
condo : 524-3336.guest : 216.129.224.130 posted : 2011-03-12 04 : 03 : 37 in a recent story about the montana census , no one is bad mouthing st. marie 's residents .
however , any unoccupied house , the fixup on those buildings has a time limit on them .
in the end if something isn 't first you say no one cares , then you say that you like things the way they are .
all i was trying to say is , if the people i will even take a fixer upper as long as i can live in it while i fix it .
there is alot of people who are looking for good housing in a good community .
a place they can make a home .
corporate india has stake in aap politicsdeccan heraldaam aadmi party 's subsidy bonanza : eye on national polls ? ndtvopinion : on aap and subsidieslivemintin-depth : delhi govt orders audit of three distribution companies ' booksbusiness standardsee all 506 sourcesrelated arvind kejriwal ccil gets qccp statuslivemint - by anup royindia cbank grants qualified central counterparty status to ccilreutersin-depth : rbi grants special to ccil as counterpartyeconomic timessee all 9 sourcesrelated reserve bank of india google wishes happy new year 2014 with an animated doodletimes of indiawe told you so .
the google doodle did transform to mark the new yearindian expresssee all 70 sourcesrelated google volunteers build ms word 's assamese clone , jahnabidomain-bmicrosoft word has an assamese clonebusiness standardin-depth : microsoft word has an assamese clone named jahnabiindian expresssee all 24 sourcesrelated microsoft word atp chennai open : top seed stanislas wawrinka sailed into the quarter-finalsskysportswawrinka moves to quarterfinals , youzhny pulls outdeccan chroniclein-depth : tennis : youzhny concedes ; easy win for wawrinkabusiness standardsee all 53 sourcesrelated stanislas wawrinka sushil kumar to compete in 74kg category at rio olympics , yogeshwar dutt in ... ndtvsushil kumar to compete in 74kg in rio games , yogeshwar in 65kgzee newssee all 9 sourcesrelated sushil kumar more science storieshealthoneindiasee realtime coveragenewborn baby dies due to overheated warmeroneindia4 hours agowritten bypallavi senguptameerut , jan 1 : a newborn baby was allegedly burnt to death due to an overheated incubator where he was kept .
the incident happened in lala lajpat rai hospital in meerut.overheated baby warmer kills infant in meeruttimes of indiababy dies as hospital warmer overheatsindian expresssee all 9 sourcesrelated : meerut ( 3 ) right effort : in order to win an olympic medal , one must train religiously and with unparalleled dedication .
that is the quality of right effort .
whatever we set our minds to , right effort is what we need to get us there .
diligence is the quality of right effort and is required to get the job done .
caraqueños despedirán el año con gran concierto en la plaza bolívareste 31 de diciembre , caracas despedir & aacute ; al a & ntilde ; o 2013 con el gran concierto somos gente de paz , te quiero caracas , evento organizado por la alcald ... más de 70.000 personas bailaron el mono en caicaraen la tradicional fiesta del mono de caicara , en el municipio cedeño en el estado monagas , llevada a cabo el pasado sábado 28 de diciembre , más de 70.000 personas ... diversiones de isla de coche declaradas patrimonio cultural intangible de nueva espartaa partir de este domingo 29 , el festival de diversiones de la isla de coche , tradicional manifestación colectiva del municipio villalba del estado nueva esparta , será ...
caraqueños despedirán el año con gran concierto en la plaza bolívar diversiones de isla de coche declaradas patrimonio cultural intangible de nueva esparta iaem aspira a consolidarse como plataforma de expresión cultural en 2014 la institución adscrita al ministerio de la cultura destacó que estrecharán lazos con los centros nacionales de danza , música y teatro , a fin de convertirse en la productora de eventos del estado la parranda de san pedro recibirá un gran homenaje en el 2014 el presidente nicol & aacute ; s maduro anunci & oacute ; este s & aacute ; bado que la parranda de san pedro , tradici & oacute ; n celebrada desde los tiempos de la esclavitud en los pueblos de guarenas y guatire , en miranda , recibir & aacute ; un gran homenaje en el 2014 , tras consolidarse este a & ntilde ; o su ingreso oficial a la lista representativa de patrimonio cultural inmaterial de la humanidad ante la unesco , hecho que fue anunciado el pasado 5 de diciembre . & nbsp ; la zaragoza : un fiesta religiosa llena de baile , color y tamunangue en sanare , la capital del municipio andrés eloy blanco , del estado lara , amaneció más temprano que de costumbre este sábado , por la celebración de la zaragoza , fiesta popular en honor a los santos inocentes heroína manuela sáenz vuelve a decirlo todo a 216 años de su natalicio dilia waikarán , actriz de teatro , cine y televisión , interpretará nuevamente el monólogo manuela sáenz : vine a decirlo todo , en una presentación que realizará este viernes a las 11 : 00 de la mañana en el foro libertador , en ocasión de los 216 años del natalicio de esta heroína latinoamericana fundación villa del cine estrenará tres películas en el 2014 parliament waives sim card tax , raises airtime tax rate na emmanuel onyango he queried the rationale for the government to bring back its own bill which it had proposed and was approved , as it should have been amended at the beginning , sparing losses incurred with the start of its implementation .
djibouti + 1 other l ’ ambassadeur des etats-unis participe à une distribution de nourriture à djibouti djibouti – pour aider à combattre l 'insécurité alimentaire dans la région d 'arta à djibouti , l ’ ambassadeur des u.s.a à djibouti a procédé aujourd ’ hui à la distribution des rations alimentaires vitales à 200 familles vulnérables .
ces rations alimentaires ont étés données par l ’ agence des etats-unis pour le développement international ( usaid ) dans le cadre d 'une contribution importante de nourriture pour 2013 , et distribuées par le programme alimentaire mondial des nations unies ( pam ) .
djibouti djibouti : système de suivi et surveillance de la sécurité alimentaire - bulletin septembre 2013  l ’ insécurité alimentaire affecte 59 % des ménages ruraux en septembre 2013  les résultats de l ’ évaluation montrent que 36,4 % des ménages ont une consommation alimentaire agrafer les marchés alimentaires en afrique de l 'est : le maïs blanc est la céréale de base principale consommées en tanzanie , au kenya et en ethiopie .
en ouganda , le maïs blanc est cultivé principalement en tant que culture commerciale pour l 'exportation dans la région .
le riz importé est un aliment de base majeur pour djibouti et la somalie , qui consomment principalement belem-le riz importé rouge .
la tanzanie est également un producteur majeur et source de riz dans la région tandis que le kenya et l 'ouganda sont de petits producteurs .
homelatest newscosta blanca newscosta levante newscosta almeria newscosta del sol newsnews briefsclassifiedsspanish national newsbritish scenecork talkinside spainmed tv guideliving in spainyellow pagespropertyphoto gallery the project to save and protect important sand dunes in marbella is now finally to proceed .
the decision to preserve the dunas de artola was taken by & # 8230 ; there is to be no horse racing at the hipódromo costa del sol racetrack in mijas in 2014 and the remaining staff at the track is to & # 8230 ; " the mother of the redeemer goes before us and continually strengthens us in faith , in our vocation and in our mission .
by her example of humility and openness to god 's will she helps us to transmit our faith in a joyful proclamation of the gospel to all , without reservation .
in this way our mission will be fruitful , because it is modeled on the motherhood of mary .
to her let us entrust our journey of faith , the desires of our heart , our needs and the needs of the whole world , especially of those who hunger and thirst for justice and peace " .
the committee said the shortfalls include the calling of the meeting and the presentation of the agenda which expelled rage as the chairman of simba were against section 33 of the club ’ s constitution .
the simba sc chairman was also implicated in a dubious deal with azam tv in which he claimed to sold the rights to the firm to air footages of simba for only 330 million / - for three years .
newseconomyfinancehealth carereal estateretailwealthautosearningsenergymediapoliticscommentaryspecial reportsasiaeuropemarketspre-marketsu.s.asiaeuropestockscommoditiescurrenciesbondsfundsetfsinvestingfinancial advisorspersonal financecnbc explainsportfoliowatchliststock screenerfund screenertechmobilesocial mediaenterprisegamingcybersecuritysmall businessfranchisingfinancingmanagementvideolatest videodigital workshopu.s. videoasia videoeurope videoceo interviewsanalyst interviewsfull episodesclosed captioningshowswatch livecnbc u.s.cnbc asia-pacificcnbc europecnbc worldfull episodescnbcabout cnbcsite mapvideo reprintsadvertisecareershelpcontactprivacy policyterms of serviceindependent programming reportlatest news releasesrsscertain market data provided by thomson reutersdata also provided bydata is a real-time snapshot * data is delayed at least 15 minutesglobal business and financial news , stock quotes , and market data and analysis © 2014 cnbc llc . all rights reserved.a division of nbcuniversalmontana news association judge in bar instead of on the benchby montana news “ if i was sitting in a commissioner ’ s position , ” he says , “ i wouldn ’ t have done anything to get federal money if it wasn ’ t the right thing for my state . ”
while it ’ s unclear whether ritz ’ s stance on the standards actually swayed the election , bennett saw it as a ploy to attract the support of tea party republicans who have been skeptical of the standards .
but david coleman , president of the college board and one of the creators of the english standards , emphasizes that it doesn ’ t have to be that way .
research and markets has announced the addition of the " papua new guinea oil and gas markets outlook to 2025 - ( 12 / 5 / 2013 7 : 08 : 00 am ) as we survey our country at the end of 2013 , i don 't have to tell you about the crises we face . many of you are experiencing them every day .
clearly , if we are going to save the middle class and protect our planet , we need to change the political dynamics of the nation .
we can no longer allow the billionaires and their think tanks or the corporate media to set the agenda . we need to educate , organize and mobilize the working families of our country to stand up for their rights . we need to make government work for all the people , not just the 1 percent .
“ i ’ m sad for the flagyl 250mg repercussions of my actions , i ’ m sad for the people of lululemon who i care so much about that have really had to face the brunt of my actions .
i take responsibility for all that has occurred , and the impact it has had on you . ”
i find a similarity in that you both seem to be advocating to move on and try out some different types / brands / styles of clothing , if lululemon is not for you & # 8230 ; its just that the way wilson said it was pretty much the worst way to say it .
i don & # 8217 ; t know about you , but as a dude i still kinda get perturbed at ford commercials being all preachy on what a man is .
if you see a comment that appears to violate these guidelines , please click on the " flag " for that comment , and one of our moderators will review it .
airbnb is the archetype of this trend .
its service allows people with a spare room to use it as an ad hoc " bed and breakfast . "
it rents these rooms to complete strangers , who in turn get to stay with complete strangers .
what a delightful and desirable use of one 's home !
so " welcome " to the sharing economy -- also known as the collapse of the american dream .
city of billings has a serial home invader / assaulter / rapest on their handsby montana news peta cautions pet owners about leaving animal compainions out in the heatby montana news obama to drastically cut immigration and border security budgetsby jim kouri & ldquo ; & hellip ; the situation at ubt is one of the reasons why we revisited our guidelines , & rdquo ; he said. on may 5 .
after the mass , the knights of columbus provided a brunch for the communicants ’ cheval de gaited , chevaux de gaited , chevaux c 'est la marche , quelle est la gait canada gose dressage de chevaux et les individus et les choses qui rendent ce happen gants canada goose comment airports skycap votre jacket “ people realize the government is institutionalizing a system to rip them off , ” says o ’ scanlon , a republican .
the public is upset and problems in new jersey led to a brief suspension of its traffic cameras last summer .
but o ’ scanlon , the new jersey legislator , says proponents focus too much on violations and not enough on safety .
in many intersections , lights for all directions overlap on red for one second , o ’ scanlon says , so violators who cross into an intersection within a second of the light turning red are not likely to hit cross-traffic .
" the huffington post " is a registered trademark of thehuffingtonpost.com , inc .
all rights reserved.thailand visa newsletters & helpline visas : all borders are open .
don 't be fooled if you use a lawyer to procure your double or the privilege or should we say con ?
some lawyers ? are actually notaries & a few are ex clerks gone out on their own ? ? ?
typical price is 12,000 baht. in thailand you will be asked to repatriate that person back to the country of origin is close by if you are inspected as by law , the original is supposed to be displayed if the thai wife / husband decides to go on the dole or other welfare programs--- the us will pre-nup won 't save you so before you fall in love think of the futureyou could be costs are from the managers .
get it in writing .
if very few condos have been guards and a receptionist and office someone has to pay for all this , plus how they are paid .
if the project has different size condos in the same to work for you that you also require an additional 4 thais on your the labour office inspects you then you have your own files .
if you let your lawyer do then he / she may ask for a backhand to the amount of israelis in khao san rd & arabian minorities in sukhumvit ? we receive these guidelines we will send out to our readers .
to depts are lax but chiangmai is not .
plead ignorant if you haven 't been but if not you are liable for a 5000 baht fine or 200 baht for each as you will not be on their records .
this applies in rules for all to see on your work premises .
duration you to be in a better position should you find out your lawyer is overcharging you or you wish to change from your present law and vat certificate in a prominant place in your office .
as said before if you use a photcopy of your vat cert on the wall have case is different and what may work for one person may not the fiancee agreement ; if the marriage doesn 't take place you may not be person likes the usa before you take the plunge as laws in the us --- once married you are liable if she / he leaves the marriage for the rest of your life---- & a pre nuptial ---forget you buy and or sell use the services of a or open a bank account you must be the holder of a if you dress like a hippy & go to immigration be of privacy and our company will act accordingly .
see faqsthe silsbee bee des milliers de sympathisants de l 'ex-rébellion séléka ont manifesté dimanche la manifestation a eu lieu à la suite de la mort , dimanche matin , de trois combattants de la séléka dans un accrochage avec des soldats français .
réunis dans le centre-ville de bangui , la capitale de la république centrafricaine ( rca ) , les manifestants ont marché pacifiquement sur une grande la marche s 'est déroulée sans incident et les manifestants ont crié : " non à en rca , les soldats français mènent une opération de désarmement des milices armées centrafricaines , depuis début décembre .
ils sont aidés de la mission internationale de soutien à la centrafrique ( misca ) , envoyée en rca par l ’ union la séléka , milice officiellement dissoute , a renversé le président françois bozizé en mars 2013 et installé michel djotodia à la tête du pays .
c ’ est une coalition de groupes armés musulmans , qui s ’ opposent aux milices les massacres déclenchés le 5 décembre à bangui ont fait près d 'un millier de le pays menace de nouveau de s 'embraser , après la reprise des tueries république centrafricaine : des crimes de guerre commis par des ex-rebelles le commandant ayant mené l ’ attaque contre la ville de camp bangui des habitants de camp bangui , en république centrafricaine , retournent le 14 le cas du général hamat est un test pour le président djotodia , qui a déclaré qu ’ il ne tolérerait pas de comportement anarchique de la part de forces se trouvant sous son commandement .
si le gouvernement ne prend pas de mesures visant à enquêter et à poursuivre les responsables , ce type d ’ attaques ne cessera de se reproduire .
daniel bekele , directeur de la division afrique ( bangui ) – des ex-combattants rebelles de la séléka , théoriquement intégrés au sein de l ’ armée , ont pillé et incendié une petite ville de la république centrafricaine le 10 novembre 2013 , a déclaré human rights watch aujourd ’ hui .
le gouvernement de transition , dirigé par le président par intérim michel djotodia , devrait immédiatement suspendre le commandant militaire qui a organisé l ’ attaque militaire d ’ une grande partie de la province d ’ ombella-mpoko , rassembler ses hommes dans la ville de gaga en vue de prendre part à une attaque lancée contre un groupe armé local , connu sous le nom d ’ anti-balaka , à proximité de la ville bangui et a trouvé la ville totalement détruite .
des survivants présents dans la localité ont déclaré que les forces de la séléka étaient responsables de cette dévastation .
hamat et un autre haut officier de l ’ armée ont reconnu que leurs forces s ’ étaient rendues à camp bangui et que des combats y avaient eu lieu , & rdquo ; le cas du général hamat est un test pour le président djotodia , qui a déclaré trouvant sous son commandement & bdquo ; , a fait remarquer daniel bekele , directeur de la division afrique de human rights watch . & rdquo ; si le gouvernement ne prend pas de mesures visant à enquêter et à poursuivre les responsables , ce type d ’ attaques hamat et d ’ anciens combattants de la séléka ont perpétré de graves exactions à camp bangui et devraient être traduits en justice , a souligné human rights en raison de l ’ insécurité régnant dans la région , human rights watch n ’ a pas été en mesure de confirmer le nombre de morts à camp bangui , ni les informations détaillées relatives aux combats .
cependant , des habitants ont signalé que trois cadavres trouvés après l ’ attaque étaient ceux de civils .
le nombre de morts est la séléka , une coalition rebelle à prédominance musulmane dirigée par djotodia , a renversé l ’ ex-président françois bozizé le 24 mars dernier .
un rapport publié par human rights watch en septembre décrit en détail les meurtres délibérés de civils – y compris de femmes , d ’ enfants et de personnes âgées – commis par la séléka entre mars et juin , et confirme la destruction injustifiée de plus de 1 cherchant apparemment à prendre ses distances par rapport à ces exactions , le 13 septembre , djotodia a officiellement dissout la séléka , dont certains membres seraient originaires du tchad et du soudan .
les ex-rebelles de la séléka sont en principe intégrés au sein d ’ une nouvelle & rdquo ; armée nationale & bdquo ; , mais son commandement et son contrôle demeurent douteux .
le groupe , aujourd ’ hui qualifié afin d ’ enquêter sur les meurtres de civils et les incendies de maisons qui s ’ étaient produits lors d ’ une bataille qui avait opposé des ex-séléka aux forces anti-balaka en octobre à gaga .
les anti-balaka – des groupes armés créés à l 'époque de l 'ex-président bozizé pour lutter contre le banditisme – sont à prédominance chrétienne et comprennent quelques soldats qui ont servi sous le régime bozizé au sein des forces armées centrafricaines ( faca ) .
au cours des dernières semaines , la violence et l ’ insécurité en république centrafricaine ont pris une dimension sectaire alarmante , les anti-balaka attaquant des civils le 10 novembre , tôt le matin à gaga , des ex-combattants de la séléka qui quittaient la ville à moto ont informé human rights watch qu ’ ils allaient & rdquo ; à général hamat est arrivé à gaga avec une douzaine d ’ hommes .
l ’ un de ses officiers , le colonel ahmed akhtahir , l ’ y a suivi , également accompagné d ’ une à gaga , hamat a réquisitionné des motos appartenant à des transporteurs locaux .
il a ensuite demandé du carburant et des & rdquo ; dons & bdquo ; à la population musulmane locale , s ’ adressant en arabe à la foule réunie : & rdquo ; n ’ y a-t-il pas ici de musulmans loyaux qui donneront du carburant pour que nous puissions combattre l ’ ennemi ? & bdquo ; après avoir collecté du carburant et de l ’ argent , hamat et akhtahir ont emmené leurs forces à moto sur une route située dans une zone reculée , envahie par une végétation dense et menant à camp bangui , à au moins 25 le lendemain , le 11 novembre , lorsque human rights watch a cherché à confirmer à gaga les informations selon lesquelles une attaque toute récente avait été menée à camp bangui , le commandant ibrahiem yusef a cherché à dissuader human rights watch de suivre & rdquo ; nos hommes qui sont allés à camp bangui hier & bdquo ; et de signaler trois jours plus tard , human rights watch s ’ est rendu à camp bangui et a découvert un corps sur la route à l ’ entrée de la ville , et senti l ’ odeur de corps en décomposition .
une fois à camp bangui , human rights watch a trouvé une ville totalement dévastée .
les habitants avaient fui leurs maisons sans avoir eu le temps d ’ emporter des bagages .
des chaises étaient renversées , des marmites se trouvaient encore sur des feux qui s ’ étaient consumés .
le centre de la ville avait été complètement pillé , et la vaste majorité des habitations , abritant de la plus grande partie de la ville avait été abandonnée , mais quelques membres de la population locale étaient restés .
les témoignages des habitants faisaient systématiquement état d ’ une attaque menée par les forces de hamat .
un homme a expliqué à human rights watch : & rdquo ; les combattants de la séléka sont arrivés dimanche matin .
nous avons entendu des coups de feu du côté du terrain de football .
ils ont tiré en entrant dans le village , et les civils se sont enfuis . & bdquo ; un autre habitant a signalé : & rdquo ; dès que nous avons entendu les coups de feu , nous sommes partis en courant dans la brousse .
nous n ’ avions pas le de nombreuses maisons ont été incendiées , et de la nourriture , des motos , des vêtements et des meubles détruits .
une femme a confié à human rights watch : & rdquo ; ils ont pris toutes les choses de valeur qu ’ ils pouvaient emporter et ils ont brûlé le reste . & bdquo ; des douilles de fusils d ’ assaut et des fragments de grenade un habitant de camp bangui a confirmé que certains hommes du village avaient riposté à l ’ attaque des hommes de hamat à l ’ aide de fusils de chasse artisanaux .
on ignore si ces hommes étaient des anti-balaka , mais le groupe armé local avait la population survivante de cette localité vit maintenant dans la brousse près de la ville , sans habitation , sans médicaments , ni même la possibilité de bénéficier d ’ une aide humanitaire .
l ’ attaque menée contre la ville constitue une violation du droit international humanitaire , qui interdit les attaques contre des civils ainsi que la destruction et le pillage de biens civils .
ceux qui ont perpétré ou ordonné l ’ attaque sont responsables de crimes de guerre . & rdquo ; sans une enquête plus approfondie , le nombre de personnes qui ont péri à camp bangui ne sera jamais connu & bdquo ; , a fait remarquer daniel bekele . & rdquo ; les attaques telles que celle-ci contre des zones peuplées provoquent des destructions massives et suscitent la peur au sein de la population de la république l ’ officier chargé du commandement à gaga sous les ordres du général hamat .
il a déclaré au chercheur qu ’ il y avait eu une bataille à camp bangui : & rdquo ; certains anti-balaka se sont cachés dans les maisons et ces maisons ont dû être brûlées . & bdquo ; interrogé sur le nombre de maisons qui avaient été incendiées , il a répondu : & rdquo ; beaucoup … 200 , peut-être 300 . & bdquo ; il a expliqué par la suite que le feu avait été mis aux maisons par inadvertance par des balles qui avaient touché les toits végétaux .
interpellé par human rights watch sur la possibilité que 200 maisons aient pu prendre feu à cause des balles , il a répondu : & rdquo ; il n ’ y a peut-être eu que 20 ou 30 maisons incendiées … parfois quand un incendie se déclare , il peut se propager d ’ une maison à l ’ autre lorsqu ’ elles sont très rapprochées . & bdquo ; human rights watch a rencontré le général hamat le 15 novembre à bangui .
le général a déclaré qu ’ il se trouvait à camp bangui le 10 novembre , mais il a minimisé les dégâts occasionnés : & rdquo ; en arrivant à camp bangui , il y a eu un combat et quelques maisons ont été endommagées .
il n ’ y en a pas eu beaucoup , peut-être quatre maisons incendiées .
j ’ étais là après l ’ attaque contre camp hamat a démenti les accusations selon lesquelles ses troupes s ’ étaient livrées à des attaques contre des civils ou leurs biens , signalant à human rights watch : & rdquo ; mes éléments n ’ ont pas le droit de causer des troubles .
s ’ ils le font , je les sanctionnerai … je veux la paix .
je veux que les gens rentrent chez eux . & bdquo ; dans les rangs des forces de hamat , human rights watch a observé un grand nombre de soldats qui semblaient être des enfants .
interrogé à propos de l ’ âge d ’ un soldat apparemment très jeune qui portait un fusil d ’ assaut kalachnikov , le commandant yusef a confirmé qu ’ il avait 8 ans et était & rdquo ; bon tireur & bdquo ; .
lorsqu ’ il s ’ est vu demander pourquoi il utilisait des enfants aussi jeunes dans les combats , yusef a répondu : & rdquo ; les adultes s ’ inquiètent et parfois , vous devez leur donner des drogues , mais les enfants attaquent tout simplement sans battre human rights watch s ’ est également entretenu avec djotodia en novembre et lui a demandé quels efforts il avait déployés pour mettre un terme aux exactions commises par son armée et par les ex-combattants de la séléka .
il a répondu : & rdquo ; je ne peux pas nier que certains de ces faits se soient produits , mais les & rdquo ; il faut que le gouvernement de transition assure le contrôle de ses forces immédiatement et traduise en justice ceux qui ont supervisé ces effroyables exactions & bdquo ; , a souligné daniel bekele . & rdquo ; avec ces preuves , djotodia ne peut prétendre qu ’ il n ’ était pas au courant de cette attaque .
il devrait suspendre hamat avant que le général ne sème davantage le chaos au sein de la population , et il devrait ouvrir une enquête et engager des poursuites à l ’ encontre de tous when the sun begins to set on vanuatu , locals flock to the kava bar to relax , have a yarn and knock back a few shells of their cherished elixir . ( 12 / 1 / 2013 6 : 03 : 49 pm ) doctors say not enough alaskans getting flu vaccines mon dec 30 , 2013 7 : 06 pm est anchorage man dies in snowmachine crash mon dec 30 , 2013 1 : 06 pm est fire in the sky signals first weekend of fur rendezvous sun feb 24 , 2013 05 : 06 am est fur rondy has a new queen fri jan 18 , 2013 07 : 06 am est rondy has a new queen fri jan 18 , 2013 05 : 06 am est doctors : not enough alaskans getting flu vaccines mon dec 30 , 2013 7 : 06 pm est anchorage in top 10 for new startups tue dec 24 , 2013 7 : 06 pm est the bells are back sat nov 23 , 2013 1 : 06 pm est new year ’ s eve fireworks banned in anchorage mon dec 30 , 2013 9 : 06 pm est doctors : not enough alaskans getting flu vaccines mon dec 30 , 2013 5 : 06 pm est denali commission to host juneau listening session sat apr 2 , 2011 12 : 00 pm edt jpd arrests juneau man after accident mon mar 28 , 2011 01 : 06 am edt committee bill limits scope of alaska oil tax cut tue mar 29 , 2011 03 : 06 am edt rep : no ethical conflict in firefighter bill tue mar 29 , 2011 03 : 06 am edt rajnath singh , narendra modi to address rallies in uttar pradesheconomic timesnarendra modi 's rally in bareilly cancelledindia todaysee all 16 sourcesrelated narendra modi up govt appoints rizwan ahmed as new dgpthe hindurizwan ahmed is new dgp of uptimes of indiasee all 11 sourcesrelated indian police service the advice was given by prime minister mizengo pinda when he officially inaugurated the mzumbe university ( mu ) , dar es salaam campus on saturday .
prof kuzilwa said the campus will be opened for use this academic year for virtually all the programmes .
the mu dar es salaam campus was established in 2005 with 146 students and two master ’ s degree courses .
expansion of the dar campus has greatly contributed to the growth of mu which now has about 8,000 students. of privacy and our company will act accordingly .
see faqs tuesday dec 31 , 2013 power of ict in transformation of agriculture na sylivester domasa as this farmer has observed , ict is a powerful mechanism and can play a key role in the development process not only to famers but also in other sectors .
researchers say cmd alone accounts to the loss of an estimated 45percent of cassava produce in east and central africa , worse is cbsd which cleans out 100percent of all yields .
as matters stand , farmers in some areas in the country are becoming the victim of cbsd and cmd for replanting cassava cuttings from infected cassava plants .
take the case of sparking conflict to famers in mara ’ s bunda district , they unknowingly planted infected cassava cuttings from mwanza villages of mayolwa in misungwi district and nyasenga and sima in sengerema . & ldquo ; before learning of the disease and its symptoms , we used to point fingers to one another & hellip ; most of us concluded that it was witchcraft & hellip ; & rdquo ; & ldquo ; we need ’ a big push ’ from the government to inform the community most of whom depend on agriculture to survive , & rdquo ; says mwanahamisi salim a spokesperson for oxfam tanzania .
près de 1.000 soldats togolais sont engagés au mali au sein de la minusma , la mission des nations unies .
le contingent va recevoir dans quelques jours de nouveaux moyens de transport ainsi que des équipements sanitaires pour augmenter les capacités d ’ accueil d ’ un hôpital de campagne .
l ’ ensemble des équipements ont été présentés mardi à la presse par atcha mohamed titikikpina ( photo ) , le chef d ’ etat-major des forces armées togolaises .
mali + 11 others bulletin d ’ information sur la sécurité alimentaire et nutritionelle en afrique de l ’ ouest - novembre 2013 risques d ’ insécurité alimentaire localisée dans la région malgré une production agricole moyenne au sahel et supérieure à la moyenne dans les pays côtiers . • la production céréalière prévisionnelle en afrique de l ’ ouest estimée en novembre 2013 est en hausse de 16 pour cent par rapport à la moyenne avec toutefois un niveau de production moyen au sahel du fait des retards de semis et de l ’ arrêt précoce des pluies . • first meeting in a decade between rdr and fpi political parties world + 6 others l & # 039 ; afrique de l & # 039 ; ouest , toujours menacée par la criminalité transnationale organisée , affirme l & # 039 ; onu 17 décembre 2013 – « au cours des six derniers mois , l 'afrique de l 'ouest a continué à progresser sur la voie de la stabilisation » , a affirmé , mardi , devant le conseil de sécurité , le représentant spécial du secrétaire général pour l 'afrique de l 'ouest , qui a toutefois fait part de la menace posée par la criminalité organisée dans la région .
niger + 13 others bulletin d ’ information sur la sécurité alimentaire en afrique de l ’ ouest - octobre 2013 les pauses pluviométriques de juin / juillet ainsi que l ’ arrêt des pluies au cours la première quinzaine de septembre dans le sahel tchadien et à l ’ est et ouest du niger entraîneront une baisse importante des productions .
une production moyenne à bonne demeure attendue dans la région comme annoncé lors de la dernière réunion du pregec de septembre 2013 à niamey avec cependant des baisses localisées dans plusieurs zones du sahel , du fait des pauses pluviométriques et de l ’ arrêt précoce des pluies .
l 'afrique de l ’ ouest peut être divisée en trois zones agro-écologiques ou en trois bassins commerciaux ( bassins de l ’ ouest , bassin du centre , bassin de l ’ est ) .
les deux sont importants pour l 'interprétation du comportement et de la dynamique du marché .
humanitarian organizations are reorganizing their presence in the west of the country .
paralysis in congress has eroded the nation ’ s ability to predict floods , but not to the extent some forecasters originally feared .
an invasion of zebra and quagga mussels is threatening the west ’ s water and energy systems .
state officials say congress can help by tweaking a 113-year-old conservation law .
water experts say a narrowly averted crisis in prince george ’ s county , md . , highlights the crumbling — and underappreciated — state of american water infrastructure .
la 24 de ani de la momentul decembrie 1989 , în contrast cu visurile și speranțele de atunci ale românilor , avem o clasă politică imorală , tot mai ruptă de cetățeni , care s-a înconjurat cu ziduri legislative menite să-i protejeze privilegiile .
prefăcându-se că sunt în tabere opuse , politicienii mimează democrația dar pe sub masă își dau mâna pentru a satisface interesele îmbogățiților ...
românia a semnat , pe 13 aprilie , memorandumul agri de furnizare de gaz lichefiat din azerbaidjan via georgia .
gazul va fi furnizat pe ruta baku ( azerbaidjan ) -kulevi ( georgia ) -constanza ( romania ) .
gazele din azerbaijan vor fi lichefiate in kulevi şi apoi transportate prin marea neagră pe vapor până la constanţa unde va avea loc un proces de de-lichefiere / re-gazeifiere .
într-o primă fază , ar ...
în ultimii ani , ankara a lansat mai multe iniţiative menite să stabilizeze orientul mijlociu , prin facilitarea eforturilor de reducere a conflictelor şi angajarea în platforme regionale multilaterale .
ultimul raport al international crisis group lansat în data de 7 aprilie , evaluează angajamentul regional în creştere al turciei , în cadrul mai larg al politicii sale externe şi de comerţ ....
vladimir putin în venezuela : acorduri în industria nucleară şi spaţială extinderea puterii globale a rusiei a continuat în venezuela cu acorduri pe termen lung de extracţie a petrolului din bazinul orinoco şi cu extinderea influenţei ruse în america de sud .
premierul rus vladimir a vizitat venezuela la începutul lunii aprilie .
putin a sosit alături de ultimele patru elicoptere de transport militare mi 17 cumpărate anterior ( 2006 ) de caracas .
în timpul întrevederilor ...
merkel în turcia : integrare versus influenţă ue în orientul mijlociu cancelarul german , angela merkel a efectuat o vizită oficială în turcia în perioada 29 – 30 martie .
vizita s-a concentrat asupra istanbulului – care în 2010 este capitală culturală europeană & # 8211 ; şi asupra integrării cetăţenilor turci , prezenţi în număr mare în germania .
cancelarul german a discutat cu omologul său turc , recep tayyip erdogan , despre integrarea europeană , despre ...
atentatele cu bombă de la moscova , din 28 martie , au readus terorismul în sânul federaţiei ruse atentatele cu bombă de la moscova , din 28 martie , au readus terorismul în sânul federaţiei ruse , în condiţiile în care războiul din nordul caucazului era declarat încheiat iar strategia de securitate , doctrina militară şi strategia de politică externă marcau drept principală ameninţare extinderea nato .
atacurile subliniază din nou instabilitatea caucazului de nord , lipsa de instrumente ...
acordul istoric pentru sprijinul greciei trece prin acceptarea fmi ca deţinător a o treime din riscuri , în timp ce germania a încercat lămurirea turciei să accepte faza intermediară de partener ce mai mult lumea liberă .
yet you don 't see weigh-ins preceding baptisms or people holding , " god hates gluttons " signs outside the den of iniquity that is ryan 's steakhouse .
but it 's good to remind ourselves now and then that just as southern slaveholders had a vested interest in interpreting colossians 3 : 22 literally , so we tend to " pick and choose " to our own advantage .
mlk events planned for bluffton sat dec 28 , 2013 9 : 25 pm est sentences lessened for 3 convicted in st. maarten murders mon dec 30 , 2013 9 : 25 pm est mayor-elect told he cannot hire new worker mon dec 30 , 2013 9 : 25 pm est some in beaufort county take plunge to ring in new year mon dec 30 , 2013 9 : 25 pm est bluffton high bobcat tunnel , mascot vandalized mon dec 30 , 2013 9 : 25 pm est osman samiuddin is at the zayed cricket stadium in abu dhabi , covering the first test between pakistan and sri lanka .
in pictures : spectacular fireworks in the uae usher in the new year .
from abu dhabi 's corniche to dubai 's burj khalifa and the palm ...
any budget .
any audience.kob has the solution for your business. the capital bujumbura for suspected links to an islamist extremist group , he " on sunday i was walking around the city , i saw the magnificent bujumbura cathedral , i took pictures of it and a policeman arrived , " this man is suspected of having links to terrorism , as we would reinforce the au peacekeeping mission in somalia to counter the shebaab conservatives will not vote for moderates or liberalsby j.d. longstreet gop rolls over for obama and recommends brennan for cia postby jim kouri he built his name on personally responding to his constituents , going so far as to give out his personal cell phone number .
so why , then , are the media demanding rob ford ’ s head on a platter ? also i definitely dislike that you characterize anyone who disapproves of him as a liberal , an elite , part of the mass media , or fed by the mass media .
how is the problem i said above , that he is a hypocrite , have anything to do with those things .
how does my being a liberal or conservative have an impact on what i say ? & # 8220 ; & # 8230 ; their absolute dislike of the man and their blatant disregard for his privacy , fed by the left – wing faction of toronto city council & # 8230 ; & # 8221 ; i find this article enlightening !
unlike the few misguided commenters i am a ( 416 ) rob ford supporter who has a job have a college education and am related to those with unversity degrees that also live in the ( 416 ) area code and suppirts the mayor !
last as has been noted on the web no one is harrasing the provincial liberals for all the tax hikes and destroying of small town villages for their purchasing of votes by giving in to all the people who want the freebies from the gorvernment !
temember toronto to hamilton we are now being told that in the near future we are paying $ 0.10 more per litre on gas for transit that we torontoians pay the highest land transfer taxes in canada ( since we pay a transfer tax the province and the city ) and that our taxes are on the rise for more councillors to spend on themselves then the people ! how many times has rob ford gone drunk as shit to a festival ? many times .
he was so drunk at one point that he thought smoking crack as the acting mayor of toronto was an ok thing to do .
how can we trust that if there & # 8217 ; s going to be a city-wide emergency or natural disaster , lil ol fordy won & # 8217 ; t be hammered !
man found shot to death this morning on eastside mon dec 30 , 2013 11 : 12 am est person hit in parking lot hospitalized mon dec 30 , 2013 09 : 12 am est oneamerica accepting ideas for sign mon dec 30 , 2013 09 : 12 am est nj assemblyman wisniewski says he will seek to extend subpoena power in gwb probe © 2013 indexmundi - all rights reservedsend a message to 1stheadlines dmca noticelockerby composite will fight to stay at the top provisions of the data protection act 1998 , which you can access at in this privacy policy references to " we " , " us " and " our " are to references to " our sites " or " the websites " are the websites on our behalf .
none of these websites are controlled or operated by the km media group limited and are not covered by this privacy policy on that page of the site .
by your use of our websites and / or the submission of personal information to us , you consent to the use of your personal information on and subject to the terms of the information we may collect via the websites may include : transactions it may be necessary for the bank or card processing your preferences and use of email updates , recorded by emails that is recorded by our web server when you request any page or browsers can be programmed to reject , or warn you before you can access the websites and browse through certain parts of you wish to use certain services offered on some of the websites or if you choose not to provide the information requested , you may not be able to use the service that has been offered or obtain the to complete the purchase or provide the after sales service , and we information to you on other products and services , and if you have ip addresses for the purposes of ensuring we understand your to improve the websites .
in respect of ip addresses we need this limited cannot guarantee or insure the security of any information recommend that you do not provide any passwords to anyone .
nor does information when you are using the internet if you are not for any of your passwords or any other personal information in an the use of cookies is an industry standard , and many websites use are initially set to accept cookies .
if you would prefer , you can operate properly if you do not accept the cookies sent by it .
when you visit any of the websites your ip address will be you are entitled to change , update , amend and delete any you have the right to request a copy of any information that km if you have any questions about our privacy policy or the govt mulls establishment of logistics , transport board na malela kassim he is also the second person in the world , after the founder and chairman of the emirates group , sheikh saeed bin maktoum al maktoum .
tanzania wants to renegotiate some sections of the deal it inked with its ugandan neighbour in september 2011 for the construction of a hydro-electric dam . ( ... )
the french major is expected by the end of the year to submit papers to uganda ’ s government to indicate where it plans to drill . ( ... )
the inauguration of the china-africa friendship association uganda in kampala at ( ... )
frelimo has not yet officially settled the question of who will succeed armando guebuza in 2014 .
plenty of hypotheses and names are doing the rounds . ( ... )
shell ’ s executives travel regularly to maputo to try to root out market opportunities . ( ... )
retired generaljacinto veloso who turned his hand to the mining business has every ( ... )
one of the two sons of environment minister alcinda abreu , dingane abreu mamadhusen ( ... )
oopswhoopsyikesuh ohoh ... oh nooh dearno ! oh my starswhy ! whoopsie daisyabort ! this can 't be happeninglife is a nightmarespill spill spillhelp !
de multe dintre ele te poți feri studiind cu atenție actele , verificând bonitatea și activitatea precedentă a dezvoltatorului .
dar ce te faci când țeapa apare mult după ce ai cumpărat ?
când dezvoltatorului îi vine ideea de a mai adăuga două etaje construcției și o încropeală stranie pe post de parcare acoperită , mai degrabă șopron de la țară ?
este vorba de complexul persepolis , din nordul bucureștiului , la doi pași de parcul herăstrău , construit de omului de afaceri iranian manochehr saadati sohi & # 8211 ; unul din patronii antrefrig , care a vandut bradul de pate , în 2007 , către firma cehă hame .
el afirma ca a decis să vândă brandul de pateuri antrefrig și o parte din utilajele de producție către filiala producătorului ceh pentru a își putea dezvolta afacerile în sectorul imobiliar .
iranianul manochehr saadati sohi a investit în complexul persepolis , care , la deschidere , arăta foarte bine .
un hotel de lux , înconjurat de 3 corpuri de locuințe și o curte ca zonă de promenadă pentru locatari .
un apartament în complex costa de la jumătate de milion de euro în sus .
construirea hotelului în zona amintita a fost cel puțin controversată , asemenea multor altor clădiri din satul francez , printre neregulile semnalate autorităților de vecini fiind ocuparea trotuarului cu un gard .
patronul iranian a împins peste noapte „ granițele proprietății “ ocupând trotuarul .
astfel , hotelul „ persepolis “ a înhățat cei câțiva pomi aflați pe marginea trotuarului , creând în curtea localului de cinci stele o pădure în miniatura .
suprafața aproximativă ocupată nelegal & # 8211 ; așa cum susțineau autoritățile la vremea respectivă & # 8211 ; ar depăși 175 de metri pătrați , în condițiile în care prețul plătit în schimbul unui singur metru în zonăara atunci de 1.500 de euro .
un calcul simplu arata ca persopolis ar fi facut doar din furtul trotuarului o afacere de peste 250.000 de euro .
după cinci ani de la neregulile inițiale , patronul iranian manochehr saadati sohi începe o serie nouă încălcări ale legii , decizând să înalțe corpul hotelului cu două etaje plus mansardă și să improvizeze o parcare ( doar a iranianului ) acoperită în curte , în cel mai rural stil românesc , semănând cu un adăpost pentru vite , fără a mai solicita autorizație de construire pentru modificări , înhățând de data aceasta spațiul de promenada al locatarilor .
sesizată , primăria sectorului 1 răspunde : „ pentru supraînălțarea cu două niveluri a construcției situate în str .
virgil madgearu nr .
27 , societatea s.c. persepolis development s.r.l. a fost sancționată prin procesul verbal de constatare și sancționare a contravenției seria a nr .
0000123 / 07.06.2012 dispunându-se totodată oprirea lucrărilor și intrarea în legalitate prin obținerea unei noi autorizații de construire pentru lucrările efectuate sau aducerea imobilului la starea inițială .
întrucât societatea în cauză nu a respectat măsura de oprire a lucrărilor , prin adresa nr .
1523 / 08.11.2012 , a fost sesizată poliția sectorului 1 sub aspectul săvârșirii infracțiunii prevăzută la articolul 24 , lit. b , din legea nr .
50 / 1991 , republicată , dosarul fiind în lucru .
de asemenea , pentru neaducerea la îndeplinire a măsurilor dispuse în procesul verbal de constatare și sancționare a contravenției , prin adresa nr .
21190 / 27.11.2012 , s.c. persepolis development s.r.l. a fost chemată în judecată cerându-se în instanță desființarea celor două etaje construite ilegal , cererea respectivă făcând obiectul dosarului nr .
56297 / 299 / 2012 .
prin sentința civilă nr .
149797 / 26.07.2013 judecătoria sectorului 1 admite cererea poliției locale sector 1 și obligă pârâtul ( s.c. persepolis development s.r.l. ) să desființeze lucrările executate fără autorizație de construire .
prin adresa nr .
56297 / 299 / 17.10.2013 serviciul juridic din cadrul instituției noastre a cerut instanței investirea hotărârii judecătorești respective cu mențiunea definitivă și irevocabilă , urmând ca ulterior hotărârea judecătorească să fie pusă în aplicare prin intermediul executorului judecătoresc . ”
evident că iranianul ignoră decizia instanței , astfel că circul continuă .
ne întrebăm cum poate o srl , respectiv sc persepolis developement srl , să construiască timp de doi ani fără autorizație ?
de ce au fost lăsate lucrările să continue ?
manochehr saadati sohi este din anul 2010 și președintele asociației de locatari , deși nu locuiește în romania & # 8211 ; normele de aplicare a legii 230 / 2007 prevăd că președintele poate lipsi cel mult trei luni din țară , iar în această calitate taie și spânzură printre angajații persepolis plătiți de locatarii cărora le spune cu tupeu că „ se află în imperiul lui ” .
probabil cartierul de nord al capitalei s-a mutat la teheran și locatarii nu au aflat . ( va continua ) next emil constantinescu a primit premiul de excelență la conferința anuală a institutului de diplomație culturală © 2013 cadran politic · rss · designed by theme junkie · powered by wordpress prairie public broadcasting pbs programs a-z roma 's miralem pjanic has urged his bosnia and herzegovina team-mate to end his frustrating time in the premier league and join him in the italian capital ( 12 / 13 / 2013 4 : 33 : 43 am ) between the river and sloughs and creeks .
flooding of cropland and timber is location stg stg day time wed thu fri sat sun kasn public filesaturday basketball doubleheader on as scheduled - fox16.com iran arrests tycoon accused of busting us and eu sanctions : mediathe daily starlocal billionaire arrested on corruption charges in iranthe voice of russiafrom iran : the associated pressiran focussee all 80 sourcesrelated babak zanjani quick stop on pub blaze mon dec 30 , 2013 05 : 20 am est blood drive set thursday at keyser presbyterian mon dec 30 , 2013 5 : 20 pm est arrests made in atm robberies mon dec 30 , 2013 01 : 20 am est no playoffs for pittsburgh mon dec 30 , 2013 11 : 20 am est ’ eers top w & m mon dec 30 , 2013 11 : 20 am est browns fire chudzinski mon dec 30 , 2013 11 : 20 am est wvu women win 11th straight mon dec 30 , 2013 11 : 20 am est stocks are at new highs , with the volatility index near the lows for the year .
if a stock has a gigantic percentage of its market capitalization in cash , it should be bought , right ?
nope .
aren 't secondary offerings a sign to sell ?
jim cramer says that ’ s not always the case .
the market ’ s hard .
cramer ’ s system for identifying stocks to buy and sell is easy .
as the yen hit a five-year low on thursday , some say the currency could fall as low as 125 per dollar by the end of next year .
i did not know that one of my acquaintances was a member of the erk party .
i learned about it by accident .
said acquaintance was walking home with empty look in his eyes all the while crumpling someone ’ s business card .
i have asked the polite question of “ what ’ s the matter ? ” and he responded with no feelings “ everything is alright . ”
i do not like meddling in others ’ business , so i silently walked next to him .
i noticed several times that he was attentively looking at me and was struggling with thoughts whether to tell me what was on his mind or not .
a thought crossed my mind : “ something is about to happen . ”
i was right ; about ten steps later , he broke the silence .
then the word floodgate was crushed and he told me everything .
the erk party authored the declaration of independence of uzbekistan bill ; they party initiated its consideration and approval at a session of the supreme council of uzbekistan and won the majority of mps ’ support for it .
did not happen .
the authorities are still strong and keep a close eye on any form of activity on the part of opposition in the country .
the disruption of the assembly is a case in point .
i do not believe that alterations in authorities ’ ranks in the year of presidential elections would be painless .
the authorities will certainly resist and can employ all and any , even prohibited , means and tools in its fight for survival .
but bloodshed among the population must be prevented at all costs .
stolen forklift found , man arrested sun dec 29 , 2013 3 : 07 pm est strict on the use of internet and there are no mobile phones so when you go there you are heavily restricted .
perhaps thats why there 's not a lot of arrangements " from abroad , visas can be obtained in bangkok or via of pressure .
it ’ s a tough place to be , so we & sbquo ; the issue of access and entitlement to arable land on repatriation , resettlement and reinsertion of idps and refugees in the ministry the commission , said his team faced the difficult task of reconciling the law & sbquo ; we have , on the one hand , the law protecting the occupant " on the other , we have a returnee who could not come to " some houses were sold by the government , how you can tell cassava field on the border of ntahangwa river in bujumbura .
a group of returnees aboard a unhcr lorry .
according to a " i was told it was government property ; there is no way to get the field back , " he said .
" another plot i owned is now occupied by priests. but i am sure there are traces at the land registry agency , but i know there is " i have been in the country for two years now but i have no right to my properties , yet when i was repatriated , i was told i would live in mugabonihera had counted on a compound he had in nyakabiga suburb in bujumbura but the occupants refused to leave , saying it was theirs as reintegration kit ; it might be cash to start a project , and it might be a mill , a welding machine depending on the beneficiaries ’ potential , " sindibutume said. returnees born in exile - are " culturally and linguistically alienated and this at least 122 babies born christmas midnight in dar na karama kenyunko speaking to the guardian , a mother who had delivered safely at temeke hospital , magreth magubika thanked the nurses for their assistance .
panasonic is trying to reinvent itself .
it is focusing on two areas : homes and automobiles .
the new york times reports .
embattled smartphone maker blackberry saw a massive loss in a third quarter drenched with red ink .
newseconomyfinancehealth carereal estateretailwealthautosearningsenergymediapoliticscommentaryspecial reportsasiaeuropemarketspre-marketsu.s.asiaeuropestockscommoditiescurrenciesbondsfundsetfsinvestingfinancial advisorspersonal financecnbc explainsportfoliowatchliststock screenerfund screenertechmobilesocial mediaenterprisegamingcybersecuritysmall businessfranchisingfinancingmanagementvideolatest videodigital workshopu.s. videoasia videoeurope videoceo interviewsanalyst interviewsfull episodesclosed captioningshowswatch livecnbc u.s.cnbc asia-pacificcnbc europecnbc worldfull episodescnbcabout cnbcsite mapvideo reprintsadvertisecareershelpcontactprivacy policyterms of serviceindependent programming reportlatest news releasesrsscertain market data provided by thomson reutersdata also provided bydata is a real-time snapshot * data is delayed at least 15 minutesglobal business and financial news , stock quotes , and market data and analysis © 2014 cnbc llc . all rights reserved.a division of nbcuniversalbetting on the house - barrons.com janice " lokelani " keihanaikukauakahihuliheekahaunaele ( kay ' -ee-hah-nah-ee ' -coo-cow ' -ah-kah ' -hee-hoo ' -lee-heh-eh-kah ' -how-nah-eh-leh ) received her new license and id after her campaign to get her full name on the cards prompted the state department of transportation to change its policy and expand how many characters can appear on them .
an efd machine is sold at between 800,000 / - to 1m / - .
tra mwanza regional manager jeremia lusana said the strike was masterminded by a few notorious businessmen , adding that his office had already conducted seminars for businesspersons to educate them on the benefits of the efds .
mto in midst of pan-northern transportation strategya provincial plan to access the ring of fire may be lacking , ...
why it is not just about pamela , mike and rob ...
are you in favour of changes to provincial laws so that liquor can be sold in places besides the lcbo and the beer store ? " we believe that the catholic community needs to be more than ever a source of clear moral vision and effective action .
we are called to be the " salt of the earth " and " light of the world " in the words of the scriptures ( cf .
mt 5 : 13-16 ) .
this task belongs to every believer and every parish .
it cannot be assigned to a few or simply delegated to diocesan or national structures .
the pursuit of justice and peace is an essential part of what makes a parish catholic . "
online abonelike-gazetehoşgeldi̇n 201401 ocak 2014 çarşambaanasayfaekonomifinansdış haberlerpolitikatoplumsektörlerkategori̇lerfinansne , nerede , ne zamangündembi̇k i̇lanlarıdünya ihtdış i̇lişkileremtiai̇şletme-yönetimmevzuatnews in englishgüncelyorum i̇ncelemebölgelerdenözel dosyalarresmi gazetetiger monitorbankacılık sektörübilişimdemir-çelik sektörüenerji sektörügıda sektörühaberleşme sektörühizmetleri̇nşaat sektörükimya-petrokimya sektörümadencilik sektörümağazacılık-perakendecilik sektörümedya sektörüotomotiv sektörüplastik-kauçuk sektörüsanayisavunma sanayiisigortacılık sektörütarım ve hayvancılıktaşımacılık sektörütekstil sektörüturizm sektörü17 : 48 - putinden , gül ve erdoğana yeni yıl mesajı17 : 32 - yılın yazar , fikir insanı ve sanatçıları açıklandı17 : 29 - filistinin prag büyükelçisi hayatını kaybetti17 : 24 - bulgaristanda asgari ücret 340 leva oldu17 : 22 - türkiye , avrupa ’ nın 11. zengini ! 17 : 16 - kuzu paralel devlet twitlerine açıklama getirdi17 : 15 - ötv artışı sektörü kötü etkileyecek16 : 38 - sayıştay tcdd raporu : gerekirse soruşturulsun16 : 03 - resmi burslu öğrencilere yeni yıl sürprizi15 : 54 - fakıbabadan türgeve 3 milyon liralık arsatiger monitorturkey ’ s m & a activity : more value or volume ?
it had 246 % returns so far in 2013 but should you avoid best buy 's stock ?
ups scrambled on thursday to deliver packages that had failed to arrive in time for christmas as it sought to limit the fallout from the delays .
japan invests in new military kit as china row simmers a spokesman for aemet luis fernando lopez cotin explained that this autumn has been characterised as “ arid ” in general terms although it was not as warm as other autumns registered in the last decade .
however , the records confirm a warmer mediterranean area , especially in the month of october , and the recording of low rainfall has left a “ pretty dry ” season . cotin pointed to a ” generalised deficit ” of rainfall in andalucia having between 25 and 50 per cent of the initial estimates .
“ fortunately reservoirs have remained more or less full ” he noted .
in the case of almeria , he stated that the rainfall “ presented itself very early in september ” but was not maintained , with rainfall 30 per cent below the initial estimate .
the new year 's eve menu will be a cream-based soup , pork loin with mushroom sherry , a sundae for diabetics and pineapple .
new year ’ s eve fireworks roundup mon dec 30 , 2013 1 : 06 pm est how bright is your holiday spirit ?
fri nov 30 , 2012 5 : 06 pm est soldiers , family and friends gather for dedication at jber sat nov 17 , 2012 05 : 06 am est business portal irin | africa | southern africa | swaziland aaa to offer free tows to drunken drivers on new year 's eveorlando sentinel - by sara k. clarkeaaa will drive you home for free new year 's evesalt lake tribunesee all 75 sourcesrelated aaa what new year 's eve will be like for uberinc.comeveryone who plans to take an uber on new year 's eve needs to watch this ... business insidersee all 22 sourcesrelated uber paradesee realtime coveragefun free things to do on new year 's eve ( and 3 splurges ! ) parade- & lrm ; 11 hours ago & lrm ; i like new year 's eve in theory .
in practice , i 'm less fond of the idea of shelling out a fortune and braving the crowds to kiss goodbye to the old year.related sydney opera house wacky new year 's eve ' ball ' drops across the usabc newsstill time to plan for new year 's eveasbury park presssee all 10 sourcesrelated new year 's day newspaper software | connect email marketing | express website builder irin | africa | great lakes | drc a national study , completed in 2010 , indicates it may be just as important to pick a " designated caregiver " for the baby during the holidays as it is to select a " designated driver . "
when parents drink alcohol--especially in excess--young infants can be left vulnerable .
bishop etienne grew up in a rural community in indiana and was ordained a priest on june 27 , 1992 , for the archdiocese of indianapolis .
he is the eighth bishop of the diocese of cheyenne .
apartments ] [ bangkok restaurants ] [ bangkok ] [ gay ] [ bangkok shopping ] of privacy and our company will act accordingly .
see faqsgenetic consultations a growing practice in nickel city there are up to 700 new genetic consultations in sudbury each year abc mourns death of chief meteorologist mark waldenby montana news a voter in the hand is worth two in the focus groupby michael r. shannon get your popcorn and coca-cola kids , this may be worth the price of admission .
we apply the same " prove it to me ” logic to all the outerwear we carry .
we won ’ t just sell what sells , we trust and believe in the products we carry .
newseconomyfinancehealth carereal estateretailwealthautosearningsenergymediapoliticscommentaryspecial reportsasiaeuropemarketspre-marketsu.s.asiaeuropestockscommoditiescurrenciesbondsfundsetfsinvestingfinancial advisorspersonal financecnbc explainsportfoliowatchliststock screenerfund screenertechmobilesocial mediaenterprisegamingcybersecuritysmall businessfranchisingfinancingmanagementvideolatest videodigital workshopu.s. videoasia videoeurope videoceo interviewsanalyst interviewsfull episodesclosed captioningshowswatch livecnbc u.s.cnbc asia-pacificcnbc europecnbc worldfull episodescnbcabout cnbcsite mapvideo reprintsadvertisecareershelpcontactprivacy policyterms of serviceindependent programming reportlatest news releasesrsscertain market data provided by thomson reutersdata also provided bydata is a real-time snapshot * data is delayed at least 15 minutesglobal business and financial news , stock quotes , and market data and analysis © 2014 cnbc llc . all rights reserved.a division of nbcuniversal grenada news headlines in the pawtucket police department , we reinvested with six all-wheel drive suvs and six new officers for street patrols .
in the fire department , we secured a federal grant to hire 21 new firefighters and introduced two new rescues , a ladder truck and an engine .
preschoolers dance to " pretty ballerina " during the mc dance company 's 2012 homeshow march 30 at the hazen high school gym in hazen , n.d. jessica klein , clara ginther and shanie dewitt perform to chubby checker 's " the twist " during the hazen figure skating club 's " rock the ice " show march 24 in hazen , n.d. russiarussiatatar-bashkirnorth caucasusputin stole the headlines in 2013 , but how is he positioned for 2014 ? first funerals held for volgograd bombing victims middle eastiran iraqbabak zanjani , iran 's ' economic basij , ' now in trouble at homeiraqi army to pull out of ramadi blog archivelatest from azatutyun.am հրմշտոց բողոքի ակցիայի ժամանակ լատվիան միանում է եվրոյի գոտուն դուբայի տոնական հրավառությունը գրանցվել է գինեսի ռեկորդների գրքում երևանում 2014-ի մեկնարկն ազդարարվեց հրավառությամբ ձերբակալվել է բեյրութում իրանի դեսպանատան շենքի պայթեցման կազմակերպիչը radio azatutyun ( in armenian ) features & commentary homeour centersbrookings health systemarlington medical centerlet 's go ! 5-2-1-0brookhaven estatesbrookhaven virtual tourthe neighborhoods at brookviewour care philosophyresident roomsneighborhoods & householdstown centerservicesrehabilitation servicesvolunteering at the neighborhoodsevents at the neighborhoodscontact the neighborhoods at brookviewwhite medical cliniclet 's go 5-2-1-0yorkshire eye clinicmaster campus planed & lab remodelnew skilled nursing facilitynew imaging & surgery areaswhy brookings healthmission , values & visionunique service offeringsawards & accoladesserviceswomen 's servicesobstetricsgynecological surgery and incontinence surgerybreast biopsiesosteoporosis screeningsleep studiesregistered dietitian servicessurgical servicesbreast reconstructive surgerypediatrics surgeryholmium laser lithotripsygynecological surgery and incontinence surgeryda vinci ® robot assisted surgeryorthopedic servicespain managementear , nose and throatimaging servicesmagnetic resonance imaging ( mri ) 32-slice computerized tomography ( ct ) osteoporosis screeningultrasoundnuclear medicinevascular screeningpediatrics imaging servicesdiagnostic x-rayrehabilitative servicescardiopulmonary rehabilitationoccupational therapyphysical therapyspeech therapyrespiratory caresleep studieslymphedema managementemergency servicesambulancemedical alert systemspediatrics emergency careoutpatient servicesnutritiondiabetes educationfoot care clinicoutpatient treatmentlaboratory servicesinpatient servicesswing bedintensive care / eicupharmacyhome serviceshome healthhearthhospicehospice volunteerspediatrics serviceschaplain servicesoutreachour teamdoctorsstaffboard of trusteesexecutive leaderspatientswhat to expectpatient centerpay billunderstanding your billhealth informationpatient rights and responsibilitiesadvanced directivesimportant contact informationwaiting arearoom servicewireless internet accesspreregistrationpreparing for dischargemeet the newbornsformspatient cheer cardvisitorsvisitingabout our campustobacco-free campuslatex-safe environment brain biomarker cue to the soundness of sleep zee news- & lrm ; 13 hours ago & lrm ; of privacy and our company will act accordingly .
see faqs ferghana information agency , moscow fergana learned that journalist sergey naumov is charged with hooliganism and sentenced to serve a brief term of 12 days .
the investigators committed numerous violations of procedures , and lawyers believe the trial and the subsequent sentence are a “ set up . ”
the trial was held in violation of objectivity and justice .
the court , for example , does not disclose the eyewitnesses ’ names and does not consider the testimonies of the defendant ’ s eyewitnesses .
tortures in uzbekistan : the position of former prisoner sanjar umarov produced sharp criticism from his " colleagues " the international campaign in protection of maxim popov is launched surat ikramov : the judicial and legal reform in uzbekistan is the plan , but not action kyrgyz lawyer with the un refugee mandate is in the tashkent jail the prosecutor general 's office strives to extradite ex-president 's aidar akayev international scientific community demands aid to professor maitdinova in dushanbe kyrgyzstan : will lifers ask for the return of capital punishment ?
kyrgyzstan : recognisance not to leave and remain within reach for bermet akayeva un supreme commissar for human rights louise arbour in ashkhabad attempt to see the head of the supreme court resulted in assault and battery the turkmen authorities cover up the traces of the serdar 's crimes click on any of the names below for a full information antarctica has the cleanest air in the world allowing air quality monitoring with a reliable baseline .
posted by miron manega on dec 24th , 2013 / / comments off este de-a dreptul suspectă insistenţa şi , mai ales , maniera în care sunt contestate unele abordări în materie de istorie şi arheologie , anume cele care pledează pentru importanţa istorică a tracilor sau , şi mai „ rău ” , a dacilor .
toate sunt luate în derizoriu şi băgate de-a valma în cazanul comun al „ tracomaniei ” sau „ dacomaniei ” , ca manifestări patologice ale insuficienţei în materie de cercetare istorică .
nu zic că nu sunt exagerări şi aberaţii printre argumentele care susţin identitatea tracă sau daco-getică a culturii noastre şi a multor altor culturi dar , până acum , nu am văzut contra-argumente ştiinţifice sau probe , ci doar referinţe la alte teorii , calificative , ironii , sarcasme , băşcălii .
îmi vine să iau un anti-tracoman de guler şi să-i zic aşa , „ neştiinţific ” , în stilul lui ilie moromete : „ bă , domnule , ştii dumneata câte statui de daci sunt în lume ?
ştii , bă , domnule , cum sunt ipostaziaţi dacii , în acele statui ?
de ce , bă , domnule , erau atât de frumoşi şi de mândri aceşti învinşi , sculptaţi de învingători ? ” .
a răspuns însă , deja , unul care știe , un doctor în istoria artelor pe nume leonard velcescu , prin lucrarea sa “ les daces dans la sculpture romaine & # 8211 ; étude d ’ iconographie antique ” , cu care şi-a luat doctoratul la sorbona , în 2000 .
o fi şi el vreun tracoman & # 8230 ; inventarul grosso modo al „ impostorilor ” traco-dacomani , menţionaţi şi caracterizaţi de contestatarii lor , include următoarele nume : mihail kogălniceanu , cezar bolliac , mihai eminescu , bogdan petriceicu-haşdeu , nicolae densuşianu , mircea eliade , vasile lovinescu , romulus vulcănescu , al .
brătescu-voineşti , edgar papu , ca să-i menţionăm pe cei mai importanţi .
unii , în perspectiva contestatarilor , erau nişte exaltaţi ( kogălniceanu , bolliac , densuşianu , eminescu ) , alţii doar „ colaboraţionişti ” ai dacismului ( eliade , lovinescu , vulcănescu ) , unul era falsificator notoriu al plăcuţelor de plumb de la sinaia ( haşdeu ) , altul era protocronist „ fundamentalist ” ( edgar papu ) , unul era legionaro-comunist ( iosif constantin drăgan ) , altul e medic ( napoleon săvescu ) , iar brătescu-voineşti & # 8211 ; un fantezist care susţinea că romanii au fost urmaşii tracilor ( aceasta din urmă , la o adică , stă în picioare chiar de la prima vedere , dacă dăm crezare legendei întemeierii romei , cu cei doi fraţi crescuţi de lupoaică , descendenţi ai lui eneas , eroul troian & # 8230 ; troia fiind , se ştie , o ceate tracă , iar lupoaica / lupul un simbol tracic ) .
la lista de mai sus îi putem adăuga şi pe istoricii procopius din cesareea , flavius aurelius cassiodor , flavius iordanes şi carol lundius care susţin , nici mai mult , nici mai puţin , că goţii sunt descendenţii geţilor , iar zamolxe ar fi legislatorul lor suprem .
trecând peste faptul că , adevărată sau nu , teoria lui carolus lundius relevă , în cel mai rău caz , nevoia goţilor de a-şi construi o ascendenţă ilustră ( ca și romanii , care aub simțit nevoia de a se trage din dintr-un erou troian , ceea ce înseamnă că tracii aveau un prestigiu uriaş în epocă ) , este interesantă reacţia noastră ( a unora dintre noi ) de respingere a oricărei tentative de recuperare a demnităţii naţionale prin recurs la origine , pe motiv că falsificăm istoria .
cazul cu tăbliţele de la tărtăria este aproape notoriu .
suntem singurii care contestă vechimea lor şi concluzia istorică implicită , de mărturie a celei mai vechi scrieri de pe pământ .
referitor la această speță , savantul german harald haartmann , expert mondial în istorie culturală , arheomitologie , istoria scrisului , evoluția limbii și istoria religiilor , autor a 40 de cărți traduse în diverse limbi de circulație internațională , editor și co-editor a 20 de antologii , declara recent : „ tăblițele de la tărtăria reprezintă o scriere .
aceasta are o vechime de peste 7.500 de ani .
pe vremea aceea , sumerienii nici nu știau că vor deveni sumerieni ” .
ba mai vine și miceal ledwith , fost consilier al papei ioan paul al ii-lea , care afirma textual și ritos , anul acesta , în direct , la tvr cluj , că „ nu limba română este o limbă latină , ci mai degrabă limba latină este o limbă românească ” .
deci aceştia ar fi , în mare , principalii vinovaţi de „ malpraxis istoric ” iar toţi „ enoriaşii ” care le iau în serios teoriile sunt nişte retardaţi semidocţi sau sfertodocţi . în privința contestatarilor lor , aceștia nu prea au nici nume , nici referințe de calibrul celor contestați .
şi , în timp ce noi băgăm adevărul sub preş , ca pe un gunoi , teoria “ spaţiului vid ” din & # 8220 ; romänische studien & # 8221 ; a lui eduard robert rösler ( 1871 ) se bucură de circulaţie şi de credibilitate în toată europa şi chiar în lume , deşi este un studiu pueril şi aberant , care contrazice cele mai elementare cunoştinţe de istorie … cei care se iau de piept cu “ tracomanii ” ar putea dovedi aceeaşi osârdie în a-l pune la punct pe rösler , dacă sunt atât de grijulii cu istoria noastră … şi dacă nu sunt cumva röslerieni .
din păcate , aceste manipulări istorice , care , abil , invocă şi incriminează chiar manipularea , au efect în spaţiul public , prin aplombul cu care mimează autoritatea , fără a răspunde punctual la vreuna din problemele sensibile atinse de “ tracomani ” .
şi astfel fezandaţi , din jena de cădea în capcana teoriei conspiraţiei , acceptăm pe nemestecate chiar conspiraţia .
poate că ar trebui să mutăm discuţia din planul istoric în cel educaţional .
nu ştiu dacă noi , românii , suntem buricul lumii , dar dacă avem cu ce să susţinem asta , de ce să nu o facem ?
hai să ne uităm în jur , să vedem cum fac alţii : ruşii , americanii , francezii , ungurii , evreii … noi , de ce nu … ?
răspunsul , după părerea mea , este : de proşti !
eu cred că e mult mai bine să li se spună copiilor , în şcoală , că sunt descendenţii unui neam eroic , mândru şi civilizat , şi să li se inducă o responsabilitate morală pe măsură , decât să li se inducă ideea că suntem cu toţii scursura europei , ceea ce nu reclamă nicio responsabilitate .
pentru că , într-adevăr , nu e suficient să afirmi că eşti cine eşti , trebuie să şi probezi asta , prin propriile fapte , prin propriile atitudini .
demnitatea , însă , se învaţă acasă şi se dezvoltă la şcoală .
fda approves salmonelex ™ against salmonella as new food processing aid in wake of u.s. shutdown , china stresses ‘ interests of all ’ special interview in princeton , nj by weng tai-sheng , wei pi-chou , and tseng hui-yen for world journal tiphares vs elysium -- welcome to the age of appropriation mangano announces increased dwi patrols on nassau roads for new year ’ s holiday sylacauga teacher arrested for sex act with student mon dec 30 , 2013 6 : 06 pm est what are you doing new year ’ s eve mon dec 30 , 2013 12 : 06 pm est public hearing on epa superfund thursday thu dec 12 , 2013 10 : 06 am est fans weigh in on saban ’ s future thu dec 12 , 2013 08 : 06 am est dealing with wintry weather in the mornings thu dec 12 , 2013 12 : 06 am est consent decree and hoover ’ s bus decision thu dec 12 , 2013 12 : 06 am est dothan man indicted on charges he stalked women sat dec 28 , 2013 12 : 06 am est adopt a pet 12-27-2013 fri dec 27 , 2013 10 : 06 pm est majority of americans say current congress is the worst ever : what do you think ?
mobile police to beef up security for moonpie over mobile and the prancing elites ' performances mon dec 30 , 2013 10 : 06 pm est 5.glenn greenwald : the nsa can " literally watch every keystroke you make " journalists who criticized him are in prison ; some of his earlier would-be kagame in september 1994 , just two months after the tutsi forces of the rwandan patriotic front ( rpf ) had defeated the hutu genocidaires and captured the invited to join u.s. undersecretary of state tim wirth and u.s. ambassador to rpf .
on the drive to his headquarters in downtown kigali from the airport , half the room was kagame himself , a man with a sorcerer 's air about him , dressed in a of kagame undoubtedly had been shaped by my earlier interviews with some of the 100,000 rwandan hutu refugees who had arrived in burundi over the previous two revenge .
and the united states and the u.n. preferred to believe that the tutsi the rwandan border .
at night , we heard gunfire from rwanda .
in the morning , we reported that the rpf had surrounded their encampment and slaughtered flown by helicopter to the site , the u.s. military attaché on board refused to unwillingness of the american military to allow any re-examination of the actions of kagame 's rpf was regrettably characteristic of u.s. policy then and now .
kagame has enjoyed a long relationship with the pentagon : he was trained at ugandan president yoweri museveni , a u.s. ally .
the pentagon has praised kagame the end of the genocide , the united states and the u.n. suppressed a report decade and a half , kagame has masterfully exploited the benefit of the doubt he years in rwanda and burundi to share his opinion of the president , he replied , " paul kagame is one of the greatest murderers on the continent of africa .
there for the seeming economic dynamism under kagame 's government to continue .
but we top storiesnews near youindiaworldbusinesstechnologyentertainmentsportssciencehealthmore top storiesarvind kejriwalvirbhadra singhdubaiagustawestlandindiasanjay nirupampranab mukherjeerapejairam rameshdelhispotlighttop storiesnews near youindiaworldbusinesstechnologyentertainmentsportssciencehealthmore top storiesspotlightmore top storiesthe hindusee realtime coveragedelhi chief minister kejriwal to face crucial trust vote todayhindustan times- & lrm ; 7 minutes ago & lrm ; chief minister arvind kejriwal will face a crucial vote of confidence on thursday in the delhi assembly which he may sail through with the backing of the congress mlas , notwithstanding reports of uncertainty surrounding the minority government.related arvind kejriwal ccil gets qccp statuslivemint - by anup royrbi grants status of qualified central counterparty to ccilbusiness standard ( blog ) see all 9 sourcesrelated reserve bank of india virbhadra singh denies charges as bjp increases pressure for his resignationfirstpostbjp presses for virbhadra singh 's resignationoneindiain-depth : virbhadra lands in delhi to explain bribery allegationsibnlivesee all 283 sourcesrelated virbhadra singh price of non-subsidised lpg hiked by rs .
220 per cylinderthe hindulpg cylinder price hiked by rs 220parda phashsee all 54 sourcesrelated delhi born in providence , he was the son of andree ( fugere ... more born in providence , she was a daughter of the late ... more born in woonsocket , he was the son of the late william shakan and pauline ( ... more born in pawtucket , she was the daughter of the late simon ... more born in woonsocket , she was the daughter of the late ... more montserrat caballé unveils “ armenia & artsakh : isle of christianity ” album “ immigration law , politics see wave of change in 2 years ” — the arizona republic “ state slow to fix algae issues ” — gannett wisconsin media burundi : non louées , les belles maisons appauvrissent les riches ceux qui se sont endettés pour construire de belles maisons pour les expatriés , dont la moitié sont partis ces derniers cinq ans , ne trouvent plus de locataires .
ils sont contraints de vendre ou de reconstruire dans les quartiers moins chers où logent la majorité de leurs compatriotes .
un investissement plus " immeuble à louer " , lit-on sur la plupart des grands bâtiments , souvent à étages , équipés et avec piscine des quartiers nantis de bujumbura .
il s ’ agit notamment de kiriri qui offre une vue panoramique sur toute la ville et sur le lac tanganyika et de rohero connu depuis longtemps comme l ’ un des quartiers des plus sécurisés de la capitale burundaise .
depuis près de deux ans , la plupart de ces maisons ne trouvent pas de locataires .
elles avaient été construites lors du retour à la paix et les élections générales de 2005 .
la plupart étaient louées à bien payés , ceux-ci qui travaillaient dans des ong internationales ou dans le système des nations-unies pouvaient s 'installer dans une maison d ’ habitation à plus de 500 & dollar ; par mois .
mais plus de la moitié de ces expatriés , venus surtout dans le cadre de la démocratisation ( depuis 2004 et 2005 ) et de la consolidation de la paix , sont partis ces cinq dernières années .
même le bureau de l 'onu les habitations des quartiers chics ont , depuis lors , du mal à trouver des locataires .
la plupart des burundais préfèrent les maisons des quartiers modestes ( nyakabiga , ngagara , bwiza , mutakura , kanyosha , … ) où le loyer coûte cette situation pénalise ceux qu ’ on croyait riches .
" voilà près d ’ une année que je recherche un locataire .
le dernier occupant de ma maison a déménagé en septembre 2012 pour retourner en europe .
il me payait mensuellement 1 000 & dollar ; sur lesquels je prélevais 600 pour payer mon crédit bancaire , dit un vieux retraité , propriétaire d ’ une maison à deux niveaux .
le reste me servait pour la survie .
aujourd ’ hui , la banque menace de vendre ma maison et je risque de crever de faim . "
les nombreux commissionnaires qu ’ il a dépêchés avec 500 & dollar ; à la clé s 'ils lui trouvaient un locataire n ’ ont pas réussi .
" les locataires sont hostiles à une offre qui excède 300 000 fbu ( 200 & dollar ; ) .
c ’ est normal , car la misère frappe tout le monde : tous les prix flambent , le taux de chômage est élevé pendant que la la plupart des propriétaires , souvent des retraités , de l 'armée fréquemment , avaient contracté des crédits bancaires pour construire ces maisons .
ils se retrouvent pauvres et désespérés .
" je croyais ainsi m ’ offrir une retraite dorée , mais ma richesse est devenue la source de mes ennuis .
pour avoir beaucoup investi , la banque m ’ a déjà adressé une lettre de mise en demeure et menace de vendre ma maison .
ceux qui ont construit dans les quartiers modestes sont à " notre rôle , explique un chargé des opérations dans une banque commerciale , n ’ est pas de vendre les maisons de nos clients .
la vente aux enchères intervient en dernier recours .
c ’ est pourquoi , nos clients devraient bien mûrir leurs pour construire , certains ont fort travaillé .
d ’ autres ont volé dans les caisses de l ’ état , selon l ’ olucome ( organisation de lutte contre la corruption et les malversations économiques ) .
mais , leur problème est révélateur de la mentalité de ceux qui ont beaucoup d 'argent : au lieu d ’ investir pour le bien-être de leurs concitoyens en proposant des logements décents à des prix raisonnables , ils se sont lancés dans des opérations immobilières pour faire payer les expatriés .
ils oublient que ceux-ci , certes paient plus , mais pour un séjour limité , alors que loger les burundais est un investissement d 'avenir. plusieurs locataires à la fois .
d ’ autres les revendent aux plus riches pour construire dans les quartiers populaires .
quant à la plupart de ceux qui construisent aujourd ’ hui , ils évitent les grands immeubles qui ne trouvent pas de locataires .
" les propriétaires de ces maisons devraient changer de mentalités et indexer les prix au coût de la vie .
le pays est pauvre et certains mangent une seule fois par jour alors qu ’ ils étaient habitués à trois fois .
pourquoi eux n ’ accepteraient-ils pas de réduire le coût du loyer ? " , propose un membre de parcem ( paroles et actions pour le réveil des consciences et l ’ évolution des mentalités ) .
il est impératif de s ’ ajuster .
" les nationaux , même riches préfèrent un loyer peu cher afin d ’ épargner et se construire leur propre logement .
d ’ autres craignent d ’ être pris pour des orgueilleux " , précise oscar commissionnaires de bujumbura .
" souvent , il leur est pénible de mettre la maison à 700 & dollar ; , quand le locataire précédent payait 1000 .
mais , c ’ est mieux que de la laisser vide durant toute une année , estime-t-il .
pourquoi mourir de faim ou voir sa maison vendue aux enchères , alors qu ’ elle coûte des centaines de how do i find out about catholicism ? one of the best ways is to contact a catholic parish near you to let them know that you are interested in finding out more about the catholic faith .
you will be invited to join with others like yourself as you inquire into what " being catholic " is all about : who we are , what we believe , how we live our lives , how we pray , and more .
the kruk family pitched in at the espanola mcdonald 's during mchappy day may 8 .
on the bottom , from left , are karissa , makaylah , terra , annakah , mariah , rebekah and kaylee .
on the top are dave and joshua .
supplied photo. fund to assist the poor and needy of the st. fill our files and our hearts here at the foundation .
how can i discern my vocation to marriage , priesthood , or religious life ?
homeless and the aclu are claiming harassment by the sarasot fla .
policeby montana news president obama 's possible gun ban makes him an enemy of the state to law abiding gun ownersby montana news taking an aspirin a day can be a lifesaver , according to researchers .
but what about in the elderly ?
can an aspirin a day prevent even more than a heart attack ? • sweden and russia are the largest donors to the region four-year-old orion qurbonaliev is lucky to be alive .
just last february , the little boy was lying comatose in the tuberculosis ward of a hospital in southern tajikistan .
the bacteria had spread to his spine and paralyzed the right side of his body .
he was severely dehydrated and malnourished .
the first lady said she is " so happy " for roberts and her girlfriend , who " continue to make us all proud . " . @ robinroberts , i am so happy for you and amber !
you continue to make us all proud . -mo — flotus ( @ flotus ) december 30 , 2013 raven-symone confirmed the subtle coming out by retweeting of her followers congratulating the star . < blockquote > " magazines would always ask about it but [ questions about my sexuality ] would get stopped by my publicists .
it was my choice , too , because i was a bit worried about it but now i don 't really give a shit .
feds set release date for new $ 100 billsby montana news at least one of the victims - whose identities are not yet known - was the brutality of the killings is feeding fears that a new rebellion is been washing up on the banks of the river ruzizi , close to the border with dr the authorities said the corpses may be linked to last week 's attack in the during the conflict , both president nkurunziza and mr rwasa led mainly hutu set up a power-sharing government followed by elections in 2005 .
a look back at the year past in the diocese of paterson news welcomed with joy in diocese is the announcement of the beatification of john paul ii from the vatican jan .
14 .
his beatification is set for may 1 , divine mercy sunday .
bishop serratelli is named as the secretary for the vox clara committee , which meets in the offices of the congregation for divine worship and the discipline of the sacraments in rome .
bishop serratelli presides at the annual acies of the legion of mary march 20 at st. therese church in paterson .
bishop emeritus rodimer celebrates the 60th anniversary of his ordination to the priesthood on may 19 .
if you are still getting your mail on saturdays don ’ t be surprised .
commentary : narco-politics : how mexico got there and how it can get out the bollore group was fined by a court in ouagadougou for failing to ship in the turbine for the komsilga on time . ( ... )
president of the association des entreprises japonaises and member of the conseil ( ... )
in my next post , i will spell out the " other means " by which the government can achieve its objectives , and i will also address the constitutionality of the telephony meta-data program , an issue that has come to fore in recent days as a result of two sharply conflicting judicial decisions on the issue .
war and liberty : an american dilemma : 1790 to the present ministra benítez destaca avances para creación de la televisora deportiva la ministra alejandra benítez explicó que este medio tendrá como prioridad el deporte nacional ante el deporte internacional , porque " el pueblo necesita conocer a sus atletas , necesita saber de deporte " el piloto venezolano del equipo lotus de fórmula uno lamentó el accidente que sufrió el domingo el expiloto multicampeón michael schumacher y pidió por la salud de unas grandes leyendas del automovilismo mundial la ministra para el deporte , alejandra benítez , señaló que durante el año 2013 las distintas selecciones nacionales ganaron 36 medallas mundiales en todas las categorías hay 7.000 inscritos para la media maratón y 3.000 para el maratón , cifra que supera el número de competidores registrados este año ( 8.225 corredores ) , en la tercera edición de la justa las chicas del fútbol sub 17 sacaron la cara por venezuela en competiciones internacionales de las tres selecciones nacionales de fútbol que defendieron en competencias internacionales los colores patrios en el 2013 , el equipo femenino de la categoría sub 17 obtuvo los mejores resultados , tras clasificar invictas al mundial a realizarse en costa rica en el 2014 limardo se consolidó como el mejor esgrimista del mundo en 2013 el esgrimista venezolano rubén limardo , número 1 del ranking mundial , se consagró como el mejor espadista del año tras recibir en parís , francia , la copa del mundo la vinotinto comenzará el 2014 en el puesto 36 del ranking fifa venezuela se coloca por encima de perú ( lugar 39 ) , paraguay ( 51 ) y bolivia ( 70 ) comité olímpico confía en la seguridad que puede brindar rusia discussing the stock performance of twitter and facebook , and what 's expected in 2014 , with dan greenhaus of btig , and the " squawk on the street " crew .
never mind zuckerberg selling , here ’ s why wall street has to buy facebook twitter says it fully reversed changes to its controversial " block " feature , but did it ?
news | sports | obituaries | business directory | e-edition | hyundai sales up 2.58 pc in decembereconomic timesmaruti sales down 4.4 % at 90924 units in decembertimes of indiasee all 55 sourcesrelated maruti suzuki atul auto sales jump 24 % in dechindu business lineatul auto rallies after strong sales in decemberbusiness standardsee realtime coveragesee all 5 sourcesrelated atul auto 2014 comes in with a banga look at how cities around the world rang in the new year .
the melbourne skyline and yarra river in australia are illuminated .
lights and lasers illuminate the badaling section of the great wall of china in beijing municipality .
a man runs as firecrackers burst around him on the street in mumbai , india .
a woman attends the new year ’ s eve party at the brandenburg gate in berlin .
fireworks illuminate the sky over the brandenburg gate in berlin .
fireworks light the sky above the london eye and parliament in london .
a wave of pyrotechnics in indonesia spelled out the new year .
people react to the fireworks on the new year 's celebration at copacabana beach in rio de janeiro , brazil .
debbie harry of blondie is engulfed in confetti as the band performs during the times square new year 's eve celebrations in new york .
japanese 2014 new year 's well wishers gather to welcome the first sun rise of the year at a beach in isumi city , chiba prefecture , japan .
it is an ancient tradition in japan to pray to the sun to welcome in the new year .
usi un dispositivo mobile ?
vai a http : / / m.huffpost.com / it / per huffpost mobile .
grillo contro tutti - il leader m5s attacca anche napolitano : " come il signore , la sua parola non si discute " ( foto ) il discorso del presidente - l 'amico macaluso : " giorgio pronto a dimettersi se non si faranno le riforme entro l 'estate " conflitto di interessi - uno studio americano , ripreso da repubblica , rivela che se berlusconi non fosse stato a palazzo chigi mediaset avrebbe incassato in spot un miliardo in meno piazza affari sorride nel 2013 e il cav incassa ...
la capitalizzazione di borsa sale del 20 % , lo spread cala di 100 punti crisi - raddoppiano i poveri dal 2005 al 2012 , sono 16 italiani su 100 .
i salari sono fermi e una pensione su due è sotto i mille euro " non torno con silvio , faccio il silvio " alfano difende la scelta di lasciare berlusconi e dice la sua sul futuro del governo ...
renzi allontana le urne - probabile la ricandidatura a sindaco , deciderà entro il 10 gennaio tenendo così in vita il governo letta ( di a. mauro ) schumi in coma - nuovo intervento nella notte .
i medici : " piccoli miglioramenti ma non è fuori pericolo " ( foto , video ) grillo e i nemici della " google tax " non vogliono alcuna equità fiscale stupisce invece che legali , giornalisti , imprenditori , economisti da anni in prima linea sul fronte dell 'innovazione , persone in gamba che danno l 'idea di credere in quanto dicono e scrivono , si siano trovati più uniti che mai nel tentativo di impedire che l 'italia diventi un paese dove il fisco sia ( un po ' più ) equo e la concorrenza senza privilegiati .
" l 'ama non l 'ama nessuno " , " l 'ama sta nel tibet " .
ama , per i non romani , è l 'azienda che si occupa della raccolta , trasporto , trattamento , riciclaggio e smaltimento rifiuti .
la vecchia nettezza urbana , per intendersi .
ma perché non la si ama l 'ama ?
basta camminare per le vie del centro per capire le ragioni della scarsa simpatia che l 'ama suscita in noi passeggiatori e acuti osservatori ( oltre che residenti ) .
i grandi partiti socialisti e progressisti europei hanno risorse molto diverse ( quasi del tutto private il labour , per metà private e per metà pubbliche la spd ) e le impiegano in modi diversi .
le recriminazioni servono a poco .
ma serve capire errori e sciocchezze fatte e per favore basta nascondersi dietro il " destino cinico e baro " e dietro la polemica con quella che si chiama antipolitica .
il bambino la cui nascita festeggiamo , sarebbe nato oggi in un campo profughi .
e non si parla qui di buoni sentimenti natalizi .
e nemmeno si parla qui di cattolici e mussulmani , di ebrei e palestinesi , sunniti e sciiti .
i maria e i giuseppe odierni , in fuga dai despoti di turno , gli erode sempre in forza in medioriente , non avrebbero certo modo di raggiungere l 'egitto da betlemme , o il libano dalla siria , o la giordania dall 'iraq , o l 'italia dalle spiagge della libia .
ed è probabile che la loro vita finirebbe con l 'essere quella delle centinaia di migliaia di rifugiati che in questo momento sono sospesi fra confini nazionali e religiosi ormai collassati .
doveva accadere prima , però è comunque opportuno che evangelicamente gli scandali avvengano , anche in ritardo .
il caos istituzionale che ha accompagnato la caduta del decreto ' salva-roma ' è opportuno proprio perché consente di socializzare quanto alcuni osservatori conoscono e documentano , ma che è invece ignoto o addirittura conosciuto in modo distorto da altri .
e ' ora che renzi comandi davvero dentro il pd .
quando sei a capo di un partito e lo devi governare , tra l 'altro con una incoronazione popolare del 70 % , non ti puoi permettere che continui a uscire sui giornali e in tv , i renziani dicono questo e gli altri del pd dicono quest 'altro .
si tratta di rifare il pd e con lui anche le regole interne , la disciplina di partito .
il sindaco luigi de magistris , indignato contro il governo per le norme del " salva-roma " inserite nel " milleproroghe " , grazie alle quali si eviterà il default del campidoglio con un meccanismo teso a ridare fiato ai suoi conti in rosso , pur dicendosi " contento " per ignazio marino , ha sottolineato la " eclatante disparità inaccettabile di trattamenti da parte del governo che fa male all 'italia , al mezzogiorno e a napoli " .
tra i propositi per l 'anno che verrà , nelle prime posizioni , si assesterà il tema dell 'immigrazione e della revisione della bossi - fini .
il dramma dei clandestini , è la tragedia di un mondo diviso tra chi ha tutto e chi non ha niente .
per questo , non è chiudendo le frontiere che si può pensare di risolvere il dilemma , né chiudendo il finestrino dell 'auto ogni volta che si accosta un extracomunitario .
prima o poi ' dobbiamo ' una risposta alla nostra coscienza .
matteo renzi ha ragione e sono contenta del processo che ha innescato .
se il ricambio non avviene naturalmente va costruito per decreto .
sono contenta che sia avvenuto .
e sono molto curiosa di scoprire come si muoverà la giovane segreteria di questo vecchio partito .
sono curiosa e bene augurante come una zia affettuosa .
coraggio ragazzi : dipende da voi , fare del nuovo anno un anno nuovo .
se volete capire le contraddizioni di questo paese , provate a viaggiare in un giorno di festa .
lasciate la macchina e prendete un mezzo pubblico .
esperienza raccapricciante .
abbiamo una struttura pubblica che gronda dipendenti e inefficienze .
che non sente l 'obbligo di fornire a chi paga un servizio decente .
è il sommarsi di due difetti : la logica del monopolio e quella del pubblico .
colpa di retribuzioni inadeguate ?
non si direbbe .
l 'ad di ffss , se non ricordiamo male , ha un appannaggio di circa un milione l 'anno .
in un paese normale ci si dovrebbe attendere dal governo trasparenza e discussione pubblica dei provvedimenti , non tentativi , più o meno maldestri , di adottare norme incomprensibili per fini spesso inconfessabili .
discussioni magari corredate da analisi d 'impatto della regolamentazione , peraltro obbligatoria per legge ma sistematicamente ignorata .
e invece ...
da noi la politica non è mai stata , come dovrebbe essere in una società laica e secolarizzata , un 'attività importante ma limitata .
è stata piuttosto sempre considerata e vista come il luogo della risoluzione di ogni tipo di conflittualità .
lo stesso spazio che alla politica interna dedicano i mezzi di comunicazione non ha pari negli altri paesi occidentali .
c 'è chi è cintura nera di gaffe .
ne fa in continuazione e , per recuperare , mette pezze peggiori del buco .
c 'è invece chi ne fa poche ma buone , anzi buonissime .
tanto da guadagnare , in un colpo , non solo la cintura nera ma anche un paio di dan .
dedicata ai gaffeur , una hit parade delle gaffe italiane 2013 .
a mio avviso sono le dieci migliori ( o le peggiori ) ma , se volete , segnalatene altre .
i suggerimenti sono graditi .
se pochi mesi fa il prestigioso settimanale entertainment weekly si chiedeva come mai il sesso fosse sparito da hollywood , oggi il mood sembra cambiato e nel 2014 il sesso su grande ( ma soprattutto piccolo ) schermo punta deciso all 'esagerazione , talvolta all 'estremo virtuale .
quando la colonna di mercurio scende su valori vicini allo zero , è ufficiale , è il momento di fare le valigie e partire alla volta di altre mete dove abbondano sole , spiagge e buon cibo .
ma dove andare questo inverno ?
sarebbe facile rispondere australia o fiji ma se non si è molto propensi a trascorrere un 'interminabile giornata in aereo , vi suggerisco delle destinazioni perfette raggiungibili in meta del tempo .
la nostra società è ossessionata dall 'orgasmo .
quel picco rappresenta in teoria la sensazione più intensa che l 'essere umano sia in grado di esperire , migliore di qualsiasi altra esperienza , incluso lo stesso atto sessuale che ne precede lo sconvolgente epilogo .
l 'orgasmo non è che uno dei tanti piaceri della vita .
luigi meneghello con il suo capolavoro " libera nos a malo " mi ha riportato al calcio giocato per strada , nei campi di periferia , con quelli bravi fin troppo e quelli scarsi in maniera eccessiva , con la voglia di diventare calciatori e quello strano , ma strano davvero che era tutto dribbling e colpi di tacco .
così mi sono imbattuto , nuovamente , nelle splendide pagine sul football .
santo , giovanissimo , è il primo ed unico allevatore di dromedari in italia , il secondo in europa .
l 'idea di allevare dromedari è nata quando , studiando i vari tipi di latte per il dottorato di ricerca in fisiologia equina , presso il dipartimento di scienze veterinarie di messina , santo ha scoperto che quello di dromedaria è una panacea per tanti mali .
nel 2014 il coordinamento 9 dicembre farà cadere il governo .
senza bisogno di leader , vinceranno i presidi .
per renzi , grillo e berlusconi l 'era dello " scacco matto " si avvicina .
sembrerebbe una previsione di magia bianca ma la direzione è questa , visti gli ultimi eventi : i cittadini cominciano a reagire e non più da un mondo virtuale .
i presidi attualmente in essere sono la testimonianza di un popolo stanco e propositivo verso un netto cambiamento .
c 'è ancora un luogo riconducibile all 'antica politica , pesante e novecentesca , che nessun renzi è riuscito a espugnare e che anzi , in concomitanza con le primarie del pd , ha aumentato il numero dei suoi sostenitori .
è l 'apparato , quello vero , oscuro , grigio e indecifrabile .
rimasto nascosto come il fuoco sotto la cenere durante gli anni della seconda repubblica , da alcuni mesi ha scelto di materializzarsi sul web .
le potenzialità dello spionaggio fai da te , ormai , sono così avanzate che assumere un investigatore per sapere se il / la vostra / vostro ragazzo / a vi tradisce , sarebbe solo da spacconi .
per imparare , allenarvi , o affinare la vostra natura di infallibili sherlock holmes 2.0 , elenchiamo alcune regole elementari .
il libro è e rimane un dono utile , spesso a prezzo contenuto , quindi cosa aspettate a regalarne ( o a regalarvene ) uno o più di uno ?
ecco i miei consigli per queste feste natalizie .
dopo le tragedie di lampedusa , nel 2014 l 'immigrazione sarà davvero una priorità del governo ?
pd a troppe voci .
renzi comandi davvero e , a letta , pensi come dirgli addio piccoli miglioramenti per schumacheransanella notte un nuovo intervento , i medici : " non è fuori pericolo " " pronto a discutere con renzi " agfgiovannini apre al confronto sul contratto unico le vacanze low cost di letta ( foto ) la pressea ronchi come un turista qualsiasi domani la lettonia entra nell 'eurotipimagesè il 18esimo stato della moneta unica " non torno con silvio , farò il silvio " ansaalfano a libero sul cav e futuro del governo ...
morti per aver raccontato .
nel 2013 uccisi almeno 70 giornalistireutersi dati del committee to protect journalists " renzi parla come grillo e berlusconi " .
agfintervista a leva , ex responsabile giustizia pd ( di a.mauro ) " legge elettorale e poi al voto il 25 maggio con le europee " lapresseaugurio di fine anno del cav : " italiani , imparate a votare " i bersani boys si difendono sui conti ( foto ) ansafassina : " basta fango " , l 'ex tesoriere misiani scrive al corriere la corte dei conti condanna lusiansal 'ex tesoriere della margherita dovrà risarcire 22 milioni di euro il financial times incorona il papa : " figura eccezionale " twitter " nessun leader mondiale è onesto e sincero come lui " ( foto ) congo , sparatorie a kinshasa .
genitori italiani bloccati con i figli adottiviansaun genitore : " intervenga il papa " verso sochiobama tende la mano a putin ansa " auspichiamo collaborazione sulla sicurezza " ( foto , video ) monsignor galantino è il nuovo segretario generale della ceiansal 'ultima nomina di papa francesco uscire dalla crisi ?
" ci vorrà ancora oltre un anno e mezzo " tipsimagesindagine di confindustria tra le imprese fiducia nelle istituzioni a picco , partiti sempre più delegittimatirepubblicail 2013 in sondaggi proposta a matteoansa " via subito il senato e paracadute per la legge elettorale " russia , esplosione nella stazione di volgograd : almeno 18 mortitwittercresce il rischio attentati alle olimpiadi siria , bombe no stop su aleppo .
in due settimane uccise più di 500 personereutersassad scrive al papa : " le interferenze straniere non sono gradite " terra dei fuochi , le mamme : " giustizia per i nostri bambini uccisi dai rifiuti tossici " servizio pubblico " inferno atomico " , lo speciale di servizio pubblico .
e il fatto fa il nome di paolo berlusconi ( video ) il tweet di letta : le tasse caleranno anche nel 2014lapresse " silvio è il nostro renzi " ansavincenzo gibiino , il volto nuovo di forza italia , racconta la strategia del movimento leggi gli articoli che potrebbero piacerti e guarda quello che condividono i tuoi amici .
i bimbi vip nati nel 2013 ( foto ) la presseroyal baby , sole trussardi , milan piquè 2013 .
un anno su instagram ( foto ) instagramla foto più condivisa , il profilo più attivo , gli hashtag più usati ...
la città più fotografata del mondo ?
( foto ) internetsecondo google maps è ...
photobombing , i migliori del 2013 secondo tumblr ( foto ) cnn tumblrquando un 'invasione di campo rovina lo scatto il 2013 in 150 immagini ( foto ) reutersle migliori immagini dell 'anno secondo reuters i cartelli dei senzatetto di new yorkandres serranoil progetto " signs of times " di andres serrano ( foto ) le copertine più " scandalose " di semprew magazineda demi moore con il pancione a ... ( foto ) look da capodanno ( foto ) ansail pizzo nero , rosso o rosa per sentirvi principesse di una notte " siete voi i migliori clienti " .
gli italiani in coda per la spa del sessowww.wellcum.atecco il wellness hotel , in austria ( foto ) blackstone in soccorso delle crocsomaggiil fondo usa investe 200 milioni di dollari perdere peso , migliorare la memoria , vivere più a lungo ( foto ) chuwy via getty imagesil rimedio è ...
il nuovo album di bruce springsteen su amazonlapresse " high hopes " messo in rete " per sbaglio " prima dell 'uscita ( video ) addio cene di gala e veglionetipsimagescapodanno a casa per gli italiani ( foto ) francesco " scioccato " da progetto di legge su adozioni gaylapresseil vescovo maltese parla al sunday times of malta se non vuoi vedere marge ( e homer ) simpson nuda non cliccare qui alexsandro palombole illustrazioni di alexsandro palombo ( foto ) desigual , in mutande per i saldi ( foto ) desigualai primi cento un outfit completo gratuito dieci piatti per il capodanno ( foto ) interneti consigli dei food blogger celebrità gay friendly del 2013 .
la classifica italiana ( foto ) wikpediaargento , idem , galan ...
ma anche molte sorpese lasciatevi incantare dalla giocoliera dei mari ( foto , video ) youtubeil teatro nell 'acqua di gana maximova il fotografo e la fidanzata in giro per il mondo ( foto ) murad osmannfollow me , il reportage di murad osmann the investment strategy jim cramer learned while he was living in his car .
cramer doesn ’ t advocate short-term trading but if you 're going to do it anyway ...
jim cramer is host of cnbc 's " mad money " and co-anchor of the 9 a.m.
et hour of cnbc 's " squawk on the street . "
get a behind-the-scenes look at how cramer formulates his investment advice .
" inside the madness " is a column , which features e-mails and more with cramer and his researcher nicole urken .
any serviceafricaasiamiddle eastlatin america & caribbeanirin frenchplusnewsplusnews englishplusnews portuguesemultimediafilm & tvradio any countryafghanistanangolabangladeshbeninbotswanaburkina fasoburundicambodiacamerooncape verdecentral african republicchadcomoroscongocote d 'ivoiredjiboutidrcegyptequatorial guineaeritreaethiopiagabongambiaghanaglobalguineaguinea-bissauhaitiindonesiairaniraqisraeljordankazakhstankenyakyrgyzstanlaoslebanonlesotholiberialibyamadagascarmalawimalimauritaniamauritiusmozambiquemyanmarnamibianepalnigernigeriaoptpakistanpapua new guineaphilippinesrwandasao tome and principesenegalseychellessierra leonesomaliasouth africasouth sudansri lankasudanswazilandsyriatajikistantanzaniathailandtimor-lestetogotunisiaturkmenistanugandaunited arab emiratesunited statesuzbekistanvietnamwestern saharayemenzambiazimbabwe the accident caused a 4 km tailback due to the left lane of the motorway being closed off .
the incident happened on the rm-e17 road in fuente alamo .
it is believed the two had had an earlier dispute with the man allegedly running over the woman on purpose .
he will be charged for failing to give assistance . the councillor was only slightly injured with several scrapes and bruises and said she did not know how she was not killed in the accident , as she had barely avoided crashing into the other vehicle head-on . high school basketball 2013-2014the silsbee bee – sports on the bee calgary web design by media dog productions irin | asia | timor-leste garrison educators took a hit in the pocketbook to stand firm as contract negotiations lag on .
photographers ahmed deeb aruna bojana eteh guillaume janice bhaskar imran jamal jacques sebastian yeshe bachelet has big win in chile presidential vote herald tribune us first family out for shave ice in hawaii china daily us first family out for shave ...
jonathan safran foer 's new book , eating animals , has inspired a lively discussion here at huffpo about how we produce the food we eat .
one of the most important issues on that subject to me as a microbiologist is the danger of overusing antibiotics .
there is a direct correlation between the ...
dod shirks congressional oversight of sexual assault in the military news of our past for dec .
30 mon dec 30 , 2013 04 : 08 am est spare the air alert issued for tuesday mon dec 30 , 2013 4 : 08 pm est modesto man gunned down on sidewalk outside san francisco nightclub mon dec 30 , 2013 02 : 08 am est payton : the city bids farewell to her old friend , the tree sun dec 29 , 2013 04 : 08 am est spare the air alert issued for sunday sat dec 28 , 2013 8 : 08 pm est jahi mcmath : family trying to raise money to get 13-year-old airlifted out of state sun dec 29 , 2013 12 : 08 am est me and my car : it ’ s a real swinger / a mon dec 30 , 2013 8 : 08 pm est spare the air alert issued for tuesday / a mon dec 30 , 2013 4 : 08 pm est herhold : bay area ’ s top 10 stories of the 2013br sun dec 29 , 2013 10 : 08 am est unsafe baby strollers may be on market despite recalls mon dec 30 , 2013 10 : 08 pm est charles dickens film ’ the invisible woman ’ a challenge for ralph fiennes mon dec 30 , 2013 10 : 08 pm est pedestrian struck , killed by metrolink train in simi valley mon dec 30 , 2013 10 : 08 pm est la plastic bag ban goes into effect on new years day mon dec 30 , 2013 10 : 08 pm est tim tebow joins sec network , still pursuing nfl mon dec 30 , 2013 10 : 08 pm est calabasas crackdown on old homes has owners crying foul mon dec 30 , 2013 10 : 08 pm est spare the air alert issued for tuesday mon dec 30 , 2013 8 : 08 pm est wolverton : a look back at the year in tech mon dec 30 , 2013 08 : 08 am est raiders pounded by broncos in season finale sun dec 29 , 2013 8 : 08 pm est free cab rides offered this new year ’ s eve and day mon dec 30 , 2013 10 : 08 pm est 2 quakes shake coachella valley mon dec 30 , 2013 10 : 08 pm est new gun law boosts sales mon dec 30 , 2013 10 : 08 pm est chp reminds new year ’ s revelers to ’ drive sober ’ mon dec 30 , 2013 10 : 08 pm est got a christmas tree to unload ?
call a scout mon dec 30 , 2013 6 : 08 pm est another killer looking to get out of napa state hospital fri dec 6 , 2013 04 : 08 am est fppc wont investigate senators connections to calderon donation mon dec 30 , 2013 8 : 08 pm est playoff-bound chargers shake off jinx mon dec 30 , 2013 10 : 08 pm est bounty on the mutiny at college ’ s pitcairn island center mon dec 30 , 2013 04 : 08 am est running up a list of new year ’ s resolutions in s.f. mon dec 30 , 2013 04 : 08 am est jahi mcmath ’ s family is running short of time mon dec 30 , 2013 04 : 08 am est modesto man shot to death in s.f. japantown mon dec 30 , 2013 04 : 08 am est top 10 advanced runs at squaw valley mon dec 30 , 2013 10 : 08 pm est the best albums of 2013 , or why can ’ t i get this damn thing out of my head ?
mon dec 30 , 2013 10 : 08 pm est looking towards the new mon dec 30 , 2013 8 : 08 pm est bay area new years eve will be another winter spare the air day mon dec 30 , 2013 10 : 08 pm est ken p-getting to green bay mon dec 30 , 2013 10 : 08 pm est violence in russia has some on edge for olympics mon dec 30 , 2013 10 : 08 pm est fda rejects ms drug lemtrada mon dec 30 , 2013 10 : 08 pm est biz break : twitter stock continues its plunge mon dec 30 , 2013 6 : 08 pm est modesto man gunned down on sidewalk outside san francisco nightclub mon dec 30 , 2013 12 : 08 am est scout installs bike rescue stations in annadel mon dec 30 , 2013 10 : 08 pm est chain reaction crash snarls 101 offramp in rohnert park mon dec 30 , 2013 10 : 08 pm est flu season arrives with coughs and sniffles mon dec 30 , 2013 10 : 08 pm est sonoma county ’ s year in business mon dec 30 , 2013 8 : 08 pm est but was the destruction wrought by the 6.3-magnitude earthquake on feb .
22 as bad as it looked in media reports ?
" the way out was blocked by all the bookcases that had fallen over and the broken debris .
the owner said not to worry about breaking anything , just get us out of the shop .
as sally says , i went into ‘ mel-dozer ’ mode and quickly cleared a trail , ” said mel moore , a man who would size up well on an nfl offensive line .
" as i was about to hit the send button , we have had another severe shock , ” chuck ’ s message concluded .
the next thing he heard was a voice in a german-sounding accent asking him if he was ok .
the man helped naughton to the middle of the street .
naughton was bleeding from the back of his head , and his knee was throbbing .
but he was alive .
" imagine standing on something like the ground , which we normally trust , and now it is doing everything it can to knock you down , ” naughton said .
" this one was over as soon as it started — thankfully .
i looked around , and noticed a tall building on every corner and decided it was time to walk to a safer place . ”
the sea ice in mcmurdo sound was finally breaking up to an extent not seen in more than a decade .
all it needed was a good push with a little bit of wind .
" all in all , i probably worked on 50 people , ” berry said .
" we ran out of bandages and splinting material , so a local cop and an intern raided one of the tourist shops and returned with boxes of tea towels and ‘ i love nz ’ pillows .
we used the pillows for soft splints on arms and legs , and made splints out of cardboard and cafe signs — all tied up with tea towels . ”
by the end of tuesday , the moores and the others they had met in victoria square would be joined by about 100 usap people at the cdc , which would become a temporary shelter through the end of the week .
that night everyone was fed and given sleeping bags .
it had taken him about an hour to walk to a medical center off bealey avenue , where one of the out-of-town urologists sewed up his arm while a nurse cleaned all his other scrapes and cuts .
the experience taught naughton that he has little desire to live in an earthquake-prone city , to say the least .
" during wednesday and thursday , our big adventure was going to cdc to get any news , ” said mel moore , mcmurdo supply operations supervisor .
" sally would use our five minutes of allocated computer time to updateher mom , who would in turn updatemy mom .
then we would go to the airport … and get some supplies .
we were just so excited when we were able to purchase a change of clothes so we could do laundry . ”
lynn dormand and her team back at rpsc reviewed nearly a thousand different travel itineraries as they scrambled to reroute people in new zealand , as well as those who would be coming off the ice in the next week or so .
they had re-ticketed more than 500 people at the time of this report .
" i cannot say enough about the raytheon staff [ in christchurch ] , ” said mel moore , as he summed up his story .
" the best way i can put it is that the christchurch we knew is gone , and we have no desire to repeat the experience . "
a downsized medicaid expansion ( infographic ) : medicaid expansion is up to states .
six are still on the fence : arizona , maine , new hampshire , ohio , michigan , and florida .
in the wake of luis prazeres ’ appointment as president of the nigeria & sao tome ( ... )
for the first time in long years the minister in charge of oil issues in sao tome ( ... )
nigerian oil scandal spreadsain alyaqeen | ain al yaqeen weekly arab political magazine custodian of the two holy mosques : budget embodies continuity of our keenness on enhancing the march of sustainable development turkey ’ s fm warns of cold sectarian war in the region the ilemela district commissioner , amina masenza who graced the event , commended compassion tanzania for the gesture .
the houses are situated at buhongwa , pansiasi , kiseke , kitangiri , kirumba and nyakato on the outskirts of mwanza city .
one of the beneficiaries , benjamini benedicto , thanked compassion tanzania for sheltering his family , saying : & ldquo ; with a new house and a home , i am now seeing light in my life . & rdquo ; a new york bakery called drunkin ' donuts is selling liquor-flavored donuts .
cnbc did a taste test for chew and brew .
technology is all about innovation and evolution . on geeked out - we tap into the pulse of the hi-tech world by showcasing the coolest , funniest and geekiest videos making waves on the web .
they are the people you know and count on for the latest market news and expert analysis .
cnbc unscripted shows you a side of our anchors , reporters and analysts you rarely get to see – what happens when they step off the set . it ’ s a look at the surprising passions , humor and the not-so wicked ways of the people you thought you knew and now will know a whole lot better .
the hosts of cnbc ’ s car chasers share their expertise on everything you need to know about what ’ s under the ’ hood and all that stuff from fender to fender .
newseconomyfinancehealth carereal estateretailwealthautosearningsenergymediapoliticscommentaryspecial reportsasiaeuropemarketspre-marketsu.s.asiaeuropestockscommoditiescurrenciesbondsfundsetfsinvestingfinancial advisorspersonal financecnbc explainsportfoliowatchliststock screenerfund screenertechmobilesocial mediaenterprisegamingcybersecuritysmall businessfranchisingfinancingmanagementvideolatest videodigital workshopu.s. videoasia videoeurope videoceo interviewsanalyst interviewsfull episodesclosed captioningshowswatch livecnbc u.s.cnbc asia-pacificcnbc europecnbc worldfull episodescnbcabout cnbcsite mapvideo reprintsadvertisecareershelpcontactprivacy policyterms of serviceindependent programming reportlatest news releasesrsscertain market data provided by thomson reutersdata also provided bydata is a real-time snapshot * data is delayed at least 15 minutesglobal business and financial news , stock quotes , and market data and analysis © 2014 cnbc llc . all rights reserved.a division of nbcuniversalin washington , 2014 likely to produce more bad scripts - barrons.com copyright © the economist newspaper limited 2013 .
all rights reserved.the silsbee bee - obituaries on the bee fr .
tom cronkleton is the judicial vicar .
he has been appointed by the bishop to administer the tribunal , judge cases and advise the bishop in canonical matters .
he is also delegated to grant permissions and dispensations for marriages .
fr .
tom kadera is the adjutant judicial vicar .
he has been appointed by the bishop to assist the judicial vicar in the administration of the tribunal , judge cases and in advising the bishop in canonical matters .
he is also delegated to grant permissions and dispensations for marriages .
formulario mb : declaración jurada concerniente a la liberta de casarse . . & thinsp ; . & thinsp ; .
i beg you for a week off to visit my family .
gathering storm - the humanitarian impact of climate changethe rise of the " new " donorsthe landmine hangovertomorrow ’ s crises today : the humanitarian impact of urbanisationjustice for a lawless world ?
rights and reconciliation in a new era of international lawwhen disaster strikes : the response to the south asian earthquake vocations and priestly formation > consecrated life for womenlinkscongregation of divine providence of kentuckyduluth benedictine sistersst .
scholastica monasteryfranciscan sisters of the eucharist carmelite sisters for the aged & infirmdominican sistersof mary mother of the eucharistann arbor , michigandominican sisters of st. cecilianashville , tennesseefranciscan sisters of christian charitysisters of st francis of the martyr st. georgedaughters of st. paul ( the daughters of st. paul are an international congregation of missionary sisters who use the mass media to communicate the gospel of jesus master , the way , truth and life to the world . ) little sisters of the poor vocations and priestly formation > consecrated life for womenmeet our newest entriesa proposal for dissolving the european court of justice | cadran politic the basis of homosexual laws , including the so-called anti-discrimination laws , is that a victim is punished and crime is labelled as a right .
these laws form the new principles of life , a new way of thinking and a state regime tantamount to hell .
the new generation brought up on these principles will be satanized and conscienceless .
it will destroy itself without war .
this is the aim of the architects of the so-called new world order – a holocaust of the planet . © 2013 cadran politic · rss · designed by theme junkie · powered by wordpress and the recession does seem to be fueling freudenthal 's words .
and for the most part , they didn ’ t .
on cloud-drunk days , the house was the center of a black hole with the slivers of ambient light being vacuumed into the corners of the windows .
and on summer afternoons when the sun would stretch on a smile that beamed endlessly , we still needed a flashlight to navigate some of the rooms in the house .
but through the same nuance she used to veil her original disappointment in the little mousetraps we had for windows , she was trying to tell me that a glass house is not what she wanted .
no matter the amount of light that shines , you ’ ll no longer be private , you ’ ll no longer be yourself , and one day – maybe after you ’ ve been scrutinized , judged , and deemed a threat , and it ’ s cloudy and rainy and thunder is on the way – you ’ ll pray for blinds .
online abonelike-gazetehoşgeldi̇n 201401 ocak 2014 çarşambaanasayfaekonomifinansdış haberlerpolitikatoplumsektörlerkategori̇lerfinansne , nerede , ne zamangündembi̇k i̇lanlarıdünya ihtdış i̇lişkileremtiai̇şletme-yönetimmevzuatnews in englishgüncelyorum i̇ncelemebölgelerdenözel dosyalarresmi gazetetiger monitorbankacılık sektörübilişimdemir-çelik sektörüenerji sektörügıda sektörühaberleşme sektörühizmetleri̇nşaat sektörükimya-petrokimya sektörümadencilik sektörümağazacılık-perakendecilik sektörümedya sektörüotomotiv sektörüplastik-kauçuk sektörüsanayisavunma sanayiisigortacılık sektörütarım ve hayvancılıktaşımacılık sektörütekstil sektörüturizm sektörü17 : 48 - putinden , gül ve erdoğana yeni yıl mesajı17 : 32 - yılın yazar , fikir insanı ve sanatçıları açıklandı17 : 29 - filistinin prag büyükelçisi hayatını kaybetti17 : 24 - bulgaristanda asgari ücret 340 leva oldu17 : 22 - türkiye , avrupa ’ nın 11. zengini ! 17 : 16 - kuzu paralel devlet twitlerine açıklama getirdi17 : 15 - ötv artışı sektörü kötü etkileyecek16 : 38 - sayıştay tcdd raporu : gerekirse soruşturulsun16 : 03 - resmi burslu öğrencilere yeni yıl sürprizi15 : 54 - fakıbabadan türgeve 3 milyon liralık arsai̇şletme-yönetim28 bin metrekarelik e-lojistik üssü kurduerp komitesi 'nden çift yönlü desteki̇ş teklifi nasıl değerlendirilmeli ? i̇ş teklifi nasıl değerlendirilmeli ? kienbaum , türkiye ofisini kurdualman danışmanlık firması kienbaum türkiye ofisini kurdu .
i̇stanbul 'daki yeni ofisi leyla spencer yönetecek.martta 6 bin 121 engelli memur yerleştirilecekçalışma ve sosyal güvenlik bakanı faruk çelik , mart ayında özürlü memur seçme sınavı ( ömss ) kapsamında yerleştirilecek engelli memur kadrolarıyla ilgili bigi verdi.10 şirketin çalışan sayısı i̇stanbul 'un yarısından fazla10 şirketin çalışan sayısı i̇stanbul 'un yarısından fazlaemniyet , 30 bin polis memuru alacakemniyet teşkilatına 30 bin polis memuru kadrosu ihdas edilmesini öngören kanun tasarısı , tbmm başkanlığı 'na sunuldu.markayı kendine pazarlamayı tüketicine yapşirketler ve ürünlerin markaları kadar kişisel markalar da önem kazanıyor .
sizin marka olmanız işlerinizi de etkiliyor.kadın yönetici sayısı dünya ortalamalarını aştıtürkiye , kadın yönetici sayısında yüzde 31 oranıyla yüzde 26 ile brezilya , rusya , hindistan ve çin ( bric ) , yüzde 24 ile avrupa birliği , yüzde 22 ile latin amerika ve yüzde 18 ile g7 , yüzde 18 ile kuzey amerika ve yüzde 21 ile dünya ortalamalarını geride bönemli olan ne düşündüğüm değil , nasıl düşündüğümnlp önce kişinin doğru hedef ve hedefe inancını test etmesine yardımcı olur.oprah 'dan girişimcilik derslerioprah 'ın marka yönetimi başarısı eğlence sektörünü ve amerika 'nın sınırlarını aşmış durumda.tatili sindirmekuzun çalışma saatleri yüzünden birçoğumuzun kendine ayıracak zaman bulamazbüyüklerin kulaktan kulağa oyunu : dedikodui̇şyerinde dedikoduyu bir yönetim aracı olarak lehinize çevirebilmek için dedikodunun dinamiklerine hakim olmanız gerekir.link-edin : i̇ş fırsatları için bağlantı edininmicrosoft , ibm , vestel , symantec , shell , youth republic , aksigorta , astrazeneca 'nın ortak özelliği nedir ?
yeni işe alımlarında linkedin 'e ilan vermeleri ... üst model motivasyona geçme zamanıdaha çok sayıda i tipi insan çalıştıran şirketler daha hızlı ilerler.12345678sonraki sayfa it has and how it cares so much about all to see students say , ‘ i want to give it all . ' ” greatest joy is when i see a student say , ‘ i there is a way to give a total self-gift to stateline looked at some of the most consequential or controversial issues on the ballot this fall .
a pair of tax measures — one levying taxes on newly legal marijuana , the other altering the state ’ s income tax system to support education — could make history in colorado .
“ both of these , there ’ s going to be lots of money spent in favor of them , and not a lot of money opposed to them , ” tecza said .
“ but the general mood of the state is anti-tax . ”
when temperatures drop and the wind picks up , it ’ s tempting to get chores done quickly and get back into the house and out of the cold .
but those frigid , blustery days are when it ’ s most important to take the time needed to check livestock for signs of hypothermia and dehydration .
find out what techniques and technologies are being developed to feed the world in a way that is sustainable for the planet .
newseconomyfinancehealth carereal estateretailwealthautosearningsenergymediapoliticscommentaryspecial reportsasiaeuropemarketspre-marketsu.s.asiaeuropestockscommoditiescurrenciesbondsfundsetfsinvestingfinancial advisorspersonal financecnbc explainsportfoliowatchliststock screenerfund screenertechmobilesocial mediaenterprisegamingcybersecuritysmall businessfranchisingfinancingmanagementvideolatest videodigital workshopu.s. videoasia videoeurope videoceo interviewsanalyst interviewsfull episodesclosed captioningshowswatch livecnbc u.s.cnbc asia-pacificcnbc europecnbc worldfull episodescnbcabout cnbcsite mapvideo reprintsadvertisecareershelpcontactprivacy policyterms of serviceindependent programming reportlatest news releasesrsscertain market data provided by thomson reutersdata also provided bydata is a real-time snapshot * data is delayed at least 15 minutesglobal business and financial news , stock quotes , and market data and analysis © 2014 cnbc llc . all rights reserved.a division of nbcuniversalthe montana catholic : engineering group aims to improve school in guatemala ( august 16 , 2013 ) on november 14 , 2013 , caribbean news now published one of my letters , the title in question was : a prophet ’ s warning to the people of st vincent .
in that letter , i compared the attitudes and behaviours of people in st vincent today to its god fearing inhabitants of yesterday .
there ’ s a new face in the city offices — alyson buchholz , center ’ s new city director .
buchholz started march 11 dar es salaam is the most densely populated city in the country and according to the 2012 national population and housing census , the dar es salaam region has a total population of 4,364,541 which is 10 percent of the country ’ s population .
the study carried out by statisticians edward ntwale and elias samweli sought to show the effects of traffic congestion on the economy as a wake-up call to stakeholders to stop the huge economic losses .
cloud of gas and ash shoots 3 miles in the air ; shelters set up for evacuees ( 12 / 30 / 2013 1 : 09 : 32 am ) the chaparrastique volcano in eastern el salvador belched a column of hot ash high into the air on sunday , frightening nearby residents and prompting authorities to order evacuations in the area . ( 12 / 30 / 2013 10 : 16 : 57 am ) video : volcano erupts in el salvador , ash and gas soar arvind kejriwal , a taxman-turned-activist-turned-politician , vowed to end corruption in the indian capital .
online abonelike-gazetehoşgeldi̇n 201401 ocak 2014 çarşambaanasayfaekonomifinansdış haberlerpolitikatoplumsektörlerkategori̇lerfinansne , nerede , ne zamangündembi̇k i̇lanlarıdünya ihtdış i̇lişkileremtiai̇şletme-yönetimmevzuatnews in englishgüncelyorum i̇ncelemebölgelerdenözel dosyalarresmi gazetetiger monitorbankacılık sektörübilişimdemir-çelik sektörüenerji sektörügıda sektörühaberleşme sektörühizmetleri̇nşaat sektörükimya-petrokimya sektörümadencilik sektörümağazacılık-perakendecilik sektörümedya sektörüotomotiv sektörüplastik-kauçuk sektörüsanayisavunma sanayiisigortacılık sektörütarım ve hayvancılıktaşımacılık sektörütekstil sektörüturizm sektörü17 : 48 - putinden , gül ve erdoğana yeni yıl mesajı17 : 32 - yılın yazar , fikir insanı ve sanatçıları açıklandı17 : 29 - filistinin prag büyükelçisi hayatını kaybetti17 : 24 - bulgaristanda asgari ücret 340 leva oldu17 : 22 - türkiye , avrupa ’ nın 11. zengini ! 17 : 16 - kuzu paralel devlet twitlerine açıklama getirdi17 : 15 - ötv artışı sektörü kötü etkileyecek16 : 38 - sayıştay tcdd raporu : gerekirse soruşturulsun16 : 03 - resmi burslu öğrencilere yeni yıl sürprizi15 : 54 - fakıbabadan türgeve 3 milyon liralık arsaenerji sektörü haberlerielektrikte tarife bedelleri netleştiepdk , üreticilere yönelik bu yıl uygulanacak elektrik tüketimi ile ilgili tarife tablolarını onayladıbenzin istasyonlarının % 80 ’ i zordatürkiye ’ de bir akaryakıt istasyonunun kâr etmesi için günde 10 bin litrenin üstünde satış yapması gerektiğini söyleyen püi̇s başkanı alkan , rafineri sonrası kârın en az yüzde 50 ’ sinin bayilere verilmesini istediakaryakıtta , dağıtım şirketine ‘ yüzde 15 ’ sınırı geri dönüyori̇ntifa sözleşmelerinin 5 yıla indirilmesinden sonra akaryakıt dağıtım şirketleri bayi kaybı yaşamamak için kendi istasyonlarını açmaya yönelmişti .
tabgi̇s ’ in değişiklik aleyhine açtığı davada yürütmeyi durdurma kararı çıktıhidroelektrikte yüzde 1,5 dünya payıdevlet su i̇şleri ( dsi̇ ) hidrolik santraller daire başkanı ali şahin , türkiye 'nin hidroelektrikte dünyada yüzde 1,5 , avrupa 'da ise yüzde 17,6'lık bir paya sahip olduğunu söyledirüzgar yeni yılda hızlı esecek ! türkiye rüzgâr enerjisi birliği başkanı mustafa serdar ataseven , yeni düzenlemelerle rüzgâr enerjisi yatırımlarının önünün açıldığını söyledi .
ancak ataseven , hâlâ istenilen hıza ulaşılamadığından yakındıelektrik kesintisi metropol osb ’ leri vurduelektrik kesintileri konutların yanı sıra metropol osb ’ lerinde de sıkıntı yarattı .
kimi osb ’ lerde kesintiler nedeniyle sanayi üretiminde yüzde 20 ’ lere varan düşüş gerçekleştielektrikte rekabetin ‘ voltajı ’ yükseldi ! aboneleri ‘ kendilerine bağlamak ’ isteyen elektrik perakende şirketleri , yüzde 10 ’ a varan indirimin yanı sıra aralarında market çekinden akıllı telefona çeşitli promosyonlar teklif ediyorbenzin ve motorin tüketimi arttıbu yılın ocak-ekim döneminde , geçen yılın aynı dönemine göre yurt içi benzin türleri satışları , yaklaşık yüzde 2,6 artışla 1 milyon 601 bin 546 ton , motorin türleri satışları ise yüzde 8 artışla 13 milyon 995 bin 845 ton oldukaraelmas kenti zonguldak ’ ta ‘ ithal kömür ’ korkusudemir-çelik ve elektrik üretimine yeraltı zenginliği kömür ile can veren zonguldak , çates ’ in özelleştirilmesi sonrasında ithal kömür kullanılması ihtimalinden tedirgin .
kentin kanaat önderleri ‘ yerli ’ vurgusu istiyorakaryakıt güzergahları düzenlendiakaryakıtın taşınacağı güzergahlar yeniden düzenlendielektrik kesintileri kapıdasoğuk hava ve doğalgaz iletim hatlarındaki yaşanan kompresör problemleri nedeniyle sanayide yaşanan elektrik kesintileri konutlarda da yaşanabilirenerji piyasaları masaya yatırılacak " world energy outlook 2013 " raporunun türkiye tanıtımı , türk sanayicileri ve i̇şadamları derneği ( tüsi̇ad ) ile sabancı üniversitesi enerji ve i̇klim merkezi ( iicec ) tarafından yapılacak43 ilden daha fazla elektrik tüketiyorlartürkiye 'nin en büyük organize sanayi bölgesi konumunda bulunan gaziantep osb , 43 ilden daha fazla elektrik tüketimiyle dikkati çekiyorsentetik petrol üretimi başlıyorltaca enerji ve çevre teknolojileri yönetim kurulu başkanı hasan alper önoğlu , atıkları değerlendirerek biyogaz üretimi yaptıkları tesisteki posayı kullanarak sentetik petrol üretimine başlayacaklarını belirtti ‘ enerji tasarrufu sağlayan yatırım 5. bölge sayılacak ’ bakan yıldız , enerji tasarruflarını özendirmek istediklerini belirterek “ enerji tasarrufu ile ilgili yatırımlar bulunduğunuz bölgeye bakılmaksızın 5 ’ nci bölge yatırımları statüsünde olacak ” dedi12345678sonraki sayfa dünya onlinedünya grubu hakkındaonline künyedünya gazetesi künyesiabonelikalışverişrssreklami̇letişimdiğer sitelerimizkobiden.comdunyastore.compcworld.com.trcomputerworld.com.trbyte.com.trdunyagida.com.trdunyainsaat.com.trdünya ekonomi tv catholic charities in des moines , iowa asian impact .
our furniture is handmade by skilled craftsman and our do not charge you to find your business .
we even guide you to the best deal our own newspaper so you get the best value for money .
you are under no obligations " the biblical and christian vision of time and history - said the pope - is not cyclical , but linear : it is a path that leads towards a conclusion .
a year that has passed , therefore , does not lead us to a reality that ends and to a reality that is accomplished , is a further step toward the goal that lies ahead of us : a place of hope and happiness , because we will meet god , the reason for our hope and source of our joy .
as the year 2013 comes to an end we gather , as if in a basket , the days , the weeks , the months that we have lived , to offer everything to the lord .
and let us ask ourselves : how have we lived the time that he has given us ?
have we used it mainly for ourselves , for our interests , or were we able to spend it for others ?
and god ?
how much did we set aside to " be with him " , in prayer , in silence ? ... " .
world + 8 others programme mondial pour l ’ agriculture et la sécurité alimentaire – bientôt plus de dix millions de bénéficiaires dans 25 pays washington , 11 septembre 2013 — les partenaires du programme mondial pour l ’ agriculture et la sécurité alimentaire ( gafsp ) , un fonds fiduciaire multidonateur établi en 2010 dans le but d ’ améliorer la sécurité alimentaire dans les pays les plus pauvres de la planète , ont annoncé aujourd ’ hui que huit pays — burkina faso , honduras , mali , nicaragua , ouganda , république kirghize , yémen et zambie — recevront des dons d ’ un montant de 254,5 millions de dollars pour financer des initiatives nationales visant à accroître la productivité agricole , améliorer la sécurité alimentaire et nutritionnelle , e from the home of the blues and the birthplace of rock and roll , it ’ s time for the best in blues on beale street caravan .
tune in saturday evenings at 10 pm ct .
safety net hospitals won ’ t be docked in states that don ’ t expand medicaid stateline — in the west , gop governors skeptical of cap-and-trade , but will watch california that ’ s the beauty of state policy , herbert said , “ these are the laboratories of democracy .
( california ) can experiment and not jeopardize the rest of the country . ”
but herbert and his fellow republican governors at the meeting aren ’ t banking on the program ’ s success .
“ a lot of people are a little skeptical , ” herbert said .
“ they look at the european ( cap-and-trade system ) .
it doesn ’ t get the results promised . ”
“ i don ’ t know if any of us disagrees that there ’ s climate change , ” herbert said .
“ the question is , what is man ’ s impact on climate change ? ”
though it is not worth mentioning here names of ministers considered to be a burden to the ruling chama cha mapinduzi and its government such politicians were not touched by lembeli ’ s report .
much as it may be agued one may conclude that the country needs to revisit its governance system and structures .
one may also ask a question that why every time the government comes up with certain programme or initiative its implementation becomes an uphill task ?
sydney 's new year 's eve fireworks to be intergalactic : reg mombassasydney morning heraldsydney to celebrate new year eve with fireworkspeople 's daily onlinesee all 21 sourcesrelated sydney jason straziuso and rodney muhumuza | december 31 , 2013 05 : 57 am est | compare 05 : 55 am est03 : 51 am est02 : 59 am est and 05 : 55 am est03 : 51 am est02 : 59 am est " new " vs.
" updated " vs. nothingwhats the criteria for the differences in the way the threads are marked ?
new gives the assumption that there 's a reply i havent read but thats not the case .
according to him , up to now nobody has been compensated by the national park .
consultations are under way to find a successor to yandraduth googoolye as deputy governor of the bank of mauritius . ( ... )
three companies owned by the lagesse and dalais families are in the island ’ s top ten . ( ... )
the last stumbling blocks to the acquisition of 51 % of the equity of bni madagascar by the mauritian indian ocean financial holding have been all but lifted . ( ... )
" the fact that ( term limit officeholders ) get out of that seat and leave it open is a great way of energizing our political process , " rumenap says .
if you are a fan of intriguing mysteries , harry potter , and a dash of house m.d. , this is the novel for you .
soumyajit ghosh to spearhead indian tt squad in lusofonia games beyond mo ibrahim ranking : asuu and the insincerity of federal government by anthony kola-olusanya © 2013 indexmundi - all rights reservedvisa news in thailand “ anything you can think of that ’ s a public infrastructure is eligible for a public-private partnership , ” norment said .
“ the need to have private capital come in is so persuasive that we ’ re going to see this more and more , ” he said .
bill improves efficiency of processing oil and gas permits mon dec 30 , 2013 9 : 22 pm est north dakota ’ s population is on the rise mon dec 30 , 2013 9 : 22 pm est man arrested for child pornography mon dec 30 , 2013 1 : 22 pm est nishu bowmen to host open house mon dec 30 , 2013 7 : 22 pm est new year ’ s eve torchlight parade set at huff hills mon dec 30 , 2013 3 : 22 pm est obit : ffalliott j. togstad mon nov 18 , 2013 1 : 22 pm est obit : jeanette mcphail mon nov 18 , 2013 1 : 22 pm est obit : maxine max allmaras mon nov 18 , 2013 1 : 22 pm est ap newsbreak : 100s of nd oil spills not publicized fri oct 25 , 2013 1 : 22 pm edt official who oversaw building of obamacare website retires mon dec 30 , 2013 3 : 22 pm est second suicide bomber in russia ’ s volgograd kills 14 on bus mon dec 30 , 2013 1 : 22 pm est man hurt in rollover near hallock , minn . mon dec 30 , 2013 11 : 22 am est crews respond to fiery nd train derailment mon dec 30 , 2013 5 : 22 pm est townhomes damaged by night fire sun dec 29 , 2013 01 : 22 am est new tradition begins sun dec 29 , 2013 01 : 22 am est celebrating safely on new years eve sat dec 28 , 2013 01 : 22 am est city to host new years eve party for children mon dec 30 , 2013 1 : 22 pm est city to consider new developments mon dec 30 , 2013 1 : 22 pm est © 2013 indexmundi - all rights reservednews in english haberleri is the link broken for one of the websites listed in our business direcory.if you know the correct url , let us konw . © 2013 indexmundi - all rights reservedthe silsbee bee - terms of service ( tos ) newspaper software | connect email marketing | express website builderon the road to riches in biotech - barrons.com much of enumerative combinatorics concerns the question : " count the number a _ n of elements of a set s _ n for n = 1,2 , ... "
we discuss four types of answers : an exact formula , a recursive formula , a formula for the generating function , and an asymptotic formula .
we illustrate these four answers by counting the domino tilings of a 2 x n rectangle. http : / / nitreg.com how do you figure out combinatorics in poker ?
watch this video and find out .
the math is fairly easy and i show you a couple of examples to ...
wireflies is a videogame developed the plethora research cluster at the ...
wireflies is a videogame developed the plethora research cluster at the bartlett , ucl .
breathis a videogame developed the plethora research cluster at the bartlet ...
breathis a videogame developed the plethora research cluster at the bartlett , ucl .
the city of riverdale is short a pair of council members and an auditor following a heated debate over a rental matter .
newseconomyfinancehealth carereal estateretailwealthautosearningsenergymediapoliticscommentaryspecial reportsasiaeuropemarketspre-marketsu.s.asiaeuropestockscommoditiescurrenciesbondsfundsetfsinvestingfinancial advisorspersonal financecnbc explainsportfoliowatchliststock screenerfund screenertechmobilesocial mediaenterprisegamingcybersecuritysmall businessfranchisingfinancingmanagementvideolatest videodigital workshopu.s. videoasia videoeurope videoceo interviewsanalyst interviewsfull episodesclosed captioningshowswatch livecnbc u.s.cnbc asia-pacificcnbc europecnbc worldfull episodescnbcabout cnbcsite mapvideo reprintsadvertisecareershelpcontactprivacy policyterms of serviceindependent programming reportlatest news releasesrsscertain market data provided by thomson reutersdata also provided bydata is a real-time snapshot * data is delayed at least 15 minutesglobal business and financial news , stock quotes , and market data and analysis © 2014 cnbc llc . all rights reserved.a division of nbcuniversalthe montana catholic : rededicating efforts for school choice in montana ( december 20 , 2013 ) i am not korean , i don ’ t live in regent park , nor does my family own a convenience store .
but the whole time i felt that apa , janet , umma and jung were telling my story – my family ’ s story .
when apa revealed his disappointment with janet ’ s career as a photographer , i remembered my own mother ’ s confusion four years ago : “ why not just science ?
why art and science ? ”
when umma explained how apa had sacrificed his whole life , his whole self , for his children , i thought of all the stories my father always shares so longingly about his home country .
when janet twisted her father ’ s arm to squeeze out of him the words “ i love you , ” i wanted nothing more than to immediately call my parents to remind them how much i care .
registration is not required to make an online payment , but we encourage you to join our community !
продинфо - новости : цены на продукты питания в беларуси за семь месяцев увеличились на 6,1 % - продовольственный рынок беларуси поискпродукцияпроизводителисырьеупаковкаоборудованиевсе группыалкогольбезалкогольная продукциядрожжизерно , крупазамороженная продукцияконсервированная продукциякрахмал , чипсы , картофелепродуктыкондитерские изделиямакаронные изделиямукамасложировая продукциямолочная продукциямясная продукцияовощи , фрукты , ягоды , травыптицеводческая продукцияпивопищевые концентраты и снекирыба и морепродуктысахарсок , нектарсольспирттабачные изделияуксусхлебобулочная продукциячай , кофе , какаокорма для животныхжиржелатинсода пищеваясухофрукты , цукатымеддетское питаниевсе регионыминскбрестская областьвитебская областьгомельская областьгродненская областьминская областьмогилевская областьлечебно-профилактическаяновинки производителей чуп & # 171 ; белтрансхолод & # 187 ; чтуп & # 171 ; ютэк-бел & # 187 ; оао & # 171 ; полоцкий молочный комбинат & # 187 ; рупп & # 171 ; могилевхлебпром & # 187 ; ооо & # 171 ; гсм-пак & # 187 ; оао & # 171 ; кленовичи & # 187 ; оао & # 171 ; калинковичский мясокомбинат & # 187 ; нп ооо & # 171 ; синергия & # 187 ; главная » новости беларуси » цены на продукты питания в беларуси ...
цены на продукты питания в беларуси за семь месяцев увеличились на 6,1 % 12 августа 2010в беларуси за январь-июль 2010 г. цены на продукты питания увеличились на 6,1 % по сравнению с аналогичным периодом прошлого года .
об этом prodinfo.by сообщили в национальном статистическом комитете так , наиболее значительное повышение цен за этот период отмечалось на картофель ( на 35,2 % ) , сахар ( 29,5 % ) , овощи ( 19,8 % ) , коровье масло ( 15,1 % ) , чай ( 11,6 % ) , алкогольные напитки ( 10,3 % ) , кондитерские изделия ( 8,5 % ) , яйца ( 8,4 % ) , табачные изделия ( 6,1 % ) , молоко и молочные продукты ( 5,7 % ) , сыры ( 5,3 % ) , рыбные консервы ( 5,1 % ) , растительное масло ( 4,7 % ) , мясо и птицу ( 4,6 % ) , хлеб и хлебобулочные изделия ( 4 % ) , колбасные изделия и копчености ( 3,9 % ) .
менее значительное повышение цен было на фрукты ( 1,3 % ) , рыбу и морепродукты ( 0,5 % ) , крупы ( 0,1 % ) .
по данным белстата , в то же время за семь месяцев т.г. цены снизились на макаронные изделия все новости | 2007 , 2008 , 2009 , 2010 , 2011 , 2012 , 2013 it ’ s almost spring , and camper owners are getting the itch to hook up the old fifth-wheel and head for an rv park .
just figuring out how long it takes to cross the border has been difficult .
the auditors said cbp ’ s estimates for wait times are unreliable and inconsistent from one crossing to the next .
right now though i thought i 'd put up a post to find out just how many girls may be inrested and how many parent 's would be willing to either be a leader or volunteer .
a man kisses the portrait of mandela during a memorial service at fnb stadium .
many at the mandela memorial at fnb stadium in soweto were draped in the colors of the ruling african national congress and the south african flag .
syria refugees multimedia series – ‘ where the war still echoes ’ a year in the phl : honest observations from awesterner on his way home ' there is a need to invest in agriculture .
it 's a the official made the comments at a meeting in the burundian capital bujumbura in the presence of burundian vice-president gervais how to build back institutions that stand in the way of effective recovery , " she she said it is important to know whether set objectives burundi has a lot of potential to develop its economy , she " there is a need to invest in agriculture .
it 's a sector ezekwesili is on a four-day visit in burundi , as part of a project in the capital bujumbura and the prasab agro-pastoral project in central melchior ndadaye came to an end in august 2005 , with the holding of historic he said all appointed officials have the competence in the all of them are not from the ruling party , " he said. that " lack of knowledge and capacity are an obstacle to burundi 's economy if the constitutional court and justice system were a bit independent and the cc were able to take responsibility for its irresponsible actions there would be justice in the country and no black march 11 , 2008 and so on how institutional clashes on natural gas revenue controls are shaping up na nimi mweta the core of the problem is that the population is deemed as not benefiting when the key relationship betweenn government and the foreign investors in the natural gas field is taxes , as for some reason , it has now been more or less accepted that taxes do not help local people , be it investors or ordinary people .
so various sections of the population put up strategies , demands .
two key terms to the debate risk making it intractable for the public authorities , and if one adds other disputes on the sidelines , potentially disturb harmony .
nor does it appear feasible that government puts up shares , as the sums are astronomical and that would also unduly disturb borrowing levels , and use of funds it has had to borrow .
the one clear lacunae is that development partners or aid agencies are not in the habit of saying things to the contrary of local stakeholders but to buttress or boost their points so long as they agree with its spirit at least in part .
the definition of the problem was a bit poorer , but the solution was more pointed and to an extent easier to implement but it still left ownership issues intact .
the only difference is that its real stakeholders are few , as hardly anyone in the country has the capacity to finance an oil rig , even if ten of them came together , and they singularly lack the sort of cohesion it needs to set up a large company for such purposes .
the potential downside of the debate is that it percolates into politics , so failing to ' empower ' local people in exploration and drilling becomes a liability .
a north american union ?
really ?
why the government won 't seal the southern borderby j.d. longstreet al-qaeda affiliate assassinates christian church leader in nigeriaby jim kouri a mother duck and her ducklings out for a summer walk on the streets of billingsby montana news sides square off over judge ’ s overturn of utah ban on same-sex marriage copyright © the economist newspaper limited 2013 .
all rights reserved.the silsbee bee – news on the bee newspaper software | connect email marketing | express website builderhouses and porperty all over thailand of privacy and our company will act accordingly .
see faqs the catholic mirror : : diocese of des moines fiftieth anniversary of the vatican ii constitution on the sacred liturgy the office for worship aims to facilitate our growth in unity as a local church through our joyful and prayerful liturgical celebrations .
in our role as a resource to the bishop and as collaborators with the parishes and priests of the diocese , we are ready to connect you with information , materials , and formation opportunities to promote that unity .
visit theus bishop 's sitefor information on the new texts , as well as our diocesan site .
image at the top : " young corn " by grant wood ( 1931 ) .
fda approves new novartis cell based flu vaccineby montana news the family of an 11-year-old boy said he suffered debilitating injuries after his school bus driver punched him in the face .
he said it ’ s still unclear if the boy suffered a concussion . & ldquo ; what we want to make sure ... that another kid doesn 't get hit or mistreated on a bus , & rdquo ; he said. of “ river republic : the fall and rise of america ’ s rivers . ” disappointed in herbert ’ s decision .
“ in the coming days and weeks , we will questions to the state ’ s division of environmental protection , which did not answer “ this is where we ’ ll figure out who has the political will and connections to get this thing done . ”
commentary : climate change : the present and future prospects in st vincent and the grenadines caucasusarmenia azerbaijangeorgiaazerbaijanis jailed over rally for man who immolated himself in protestgeorgian chief prosecutor resigns in 2013 , iran got a new president and maybe a new direction out with the old , in with the new .
for iran , 2013 saw the departure of an embattled president , and the arrival of a new one offering promises of economic revival , moderation , and an end to the country 's international isolation more vehicle tracking plan under way - mpinga na devota mwachang 'a he told the guardian in an interview that his office was planning a new feasibility study after which tenders would be floated for the implementation of the project .
it is to be noted however that the previous adaptation of the vehicle tracking system was rejected by stakeholders who complained that the procedures used to secure the contractor , did not abide by regulations .
in so doing it collects data in the process from the field and delivers the same to the base of operation .
wardens urge maine snowmobilers to ride safely mon dec 30 , 2013 6 : 14 pm est woolwich man gets two years in prison for writing bad checks mon dec 30 , 2013 6 : 14 pm est strimling & harriman on 2013 ’ s biggest stories mon dec 30 , 2013 8 : 14 pm est vassalboro man sues over deceased friend ’ s check mon dec 30 , 2013 08 : 14 am est accidents pile up as snow hits seacoast thu dec 26 , 2013 6 : 14 pm est delorenzo a fitzy finalist thu dec 26 , 2013 10 : 14 am est christmas angels : soup ’ s on volunteers thu dec 26 , 2013 02 : 14 am est maine man crashes snowmobile into parked car mon dec 30 , 2013 10 : 14 pm est pivotal battle in war of 1812 to be commemorated in vermont mon dec 30 , 2013 10 : 14 pm est mainers dig out from latest storm mon dec 30 , 2013 8 : 14 pm est mainer ’ s dig out from latest storm mon dec 30 , 2013 6 : 14 pm est and thatâ € ™ s a good thing if youâ € ™ re interested in learning about whatâ € ™ s happening in the atmosphere above the continent at one of the harshest times of the year. â € œthatâ € ™ s the capability weâ € ™ ve never had before : fly at a reasonably constant altitude and constant density surface and remain aloft for weeks if not months , â €  said deshler , a professor in the university of wyomingâ € ™ s department of atmospheric sciences as the line of sight of the gps signal from any of the orbiting global positioning satellites passes deeper into the atmosphere , the signal path is refracted â € ” bent and delayed â € ” by the density changes in the atmosphere .
the refraction is measured by the doppler shift of the carrier frequency of the gps signal , providing information on the pressure , temperature and humidity structure of the atmosphere .
the french team investigated the vortex core mechanics to see how well it isolates the polar winter air .
it is this isolation that allows the air to cool to psc temperatures , and then for ozone to be destroyed by chlorine activated on pscs during the winter. â € œit was a pretty big instrument development activity , â €  avallone said. â € œthereâ € ™ s not enough power on the balloon gondola that we can operate continuously , â €  deshler said. â € œwe have to sample pretty deep into the cloud to see the formation of [ the nat ] particles.â €  no room at the inn debuted 20 years ago in june 2011 : cherishing the source and summit of our faith at least 15 die in 2nd explosion in volgograd ( video ) following is a rundown of what each state plans to do with its aca grant : trying to find someoneback in the mid 70 's i came to town with a contractor and we built the bozeman property managementnm proposal would ban pocket vetoes by governors | kob.com asianews is a great accomplishment in evangelization , which is thework of god , but it is also your accomplishment .
we are not ashamed to say so : without your economic help and without your prayers , we cannot go on .
we do not want to " sell " our information , butdisseminate it .
so that we can do this , we ask you to help us with a donation , which can be made by bank transfer or through an italian postal account payment .
dossierthe year of faith and the martyrdom of fr fausto tentoriojohn paul ii is beatifiededucation can stop the taliban in pakistanegyptian revolution : muslims and christians unitedworld peace day 2011 a brief history of the rise , accomplishments and fall of the achaemenid empire .
hope you enjoy .. the camera 's not that good in the dark .
kudos to ruby cilos for taking the vid we do not own any of the music here .
enjoy !
the video 's shaky though دربارهٔ کوروش تمام مورخین توافق دارند که شاهی بود با عزم ، عاقل و رئوف که در موارد مشکل به عقل بیش از قوه متوسل می ‌ شد و برخلاف پادشاهان آشور و بابل ، با مردم مغلوب رئوف و مهربان بود . جنگ و بوی خون او را برخلاف فاتحان دیگر مغرور نکرد و رفتار او با پادشاهان مغلوب لیدیه و بابل سیاست تسامح او را بخوبی نشان می ‌ دهد . با پادشاهان مغلوب به اندازه ‌ ای مهربانی می ‌ کرد که آنها دوست کوروش شده و در مواقع مشکل به او یاری می ‌ نمودند . با مذهب و معتقدات مردم کاری نداشت بلکه برای جذب قلوب ملل آداب مذهبی آنها را محترم می ‌ داشت . شهرها و ممالکی که در تحت تسلط او در می ‌ آمدند ، هیچگاه معرض قتل و غارت واقع نمی ‌ شدند . آنچه درباب وی برای مورخ جای تردید ندارد ، قطعاً این است که لیاقت نظامی و سیاسی فوق ‌ العاده در وجود او ، با چنان انسانیت و مروتی در آمیخته بود که در تاریخ پادشاهان شرقی پدیده ‌ ای به ‌ کلی تازه به شمار می ‌ آمد . کوروش از ذکر عناوین و القاب احتراز داشت ، در کتیبه ‌ هایی که از او مانده ، این عبارت ساده خوانده می ‌ شود ، من کوروش شاه هخامنشی هستم . حال آنکه شاهان دیگر خود را خدا می ‌ خواندند that evening , as i sat sipping a hot cup of some saffron tea , the distinct , floral honeyed tone of the saffron tea took me back to the time when the ancient persians of the achaemenid empire mixed ’ kurkum ’ , rather saffron , with ...... ( size : 1.2kb ) aamc offers weight-loss seminars in the new year fri dec 27 , 2013 10 : 15 am est firefighter union donates $ 20,000 to decesaris breast center thu dec 26 , 2013 12 : 15 pm est holiday season is time to crack down on oyster poaching in chesapeake bay mon dec 30 , 2013 8 : 15 pm est attempted armed robbery one of two break-ins in towson crime log mon dec 30 , 2013 4 : 15 pm est masked men attempt to rob trio of phone in towson crime log mon dec 30 , 2013 2 : 15 pm est pixelligent searching for space to ramp up manufacturing sat dec 28 , 2013 10 : 15 am est at 71 , finally hearing her father ’ s voice fri dec 27 , 2013 10 : 15 pm est cunningham ’ s of towson is a big-shouldered restaurant with staying power review fri dec 27 , 2013 10 : 15 pm est conservatives chafe as van hollen embraces new territory in carroll mon nov 11 , 2013 6 : 15 pm est carrolltown mall redevelopment set to begin thu oct 3 , 2013 12 : 15 pm edt man injured by bull in northern harford on christmas fri dec 27 , 2013 6 : 15 pm est fire breaks out in ellicott city home sun dec 29 , 2013 4 : 15 pm est atholton ’ s bernetti goes for career-high 39 points in boys basketball win fri dec 27 , 2013 4 : 15 pm est in charles north , a trio of new cafes mon dec 30 , 2013 10 : 15 am est nicholas james kiladis sun dec 29 , 2013 6 : 15 pm est putting employers in the driver ’ s seat for job training sun dec 29 , 2013 10 : 15 am est a ’ street ’ pope who challenges economic disparity tue dec 24 , 2013 08 : 15 am est funeral arrangements set for former oriole mon dec 30 , 2013 8 : 15 pm est the original soupman donates soups , goodwill mon dec 30 , 2013 4 : 15 pm est elderly man assaulted in glen burnie robbery mon dec 30 , 2013 4 : 15 pm est va . , nj and md. to collaborate in drone testing mon dec 30 , 2013 8 : 15 pm est sharpsburg town offices to be closed for two months while the town clerk is on maternity leave mon dec 30 , 2013 6 : 15 pm est happy new year mon dec 30 , 2013 6 : 15 pm est browse or search our vehicle classified ads . mon dec 30 , 2013 08 : 15 am est get deals now sat dec 28 , 2013 06 : 15 am est fans react to redskins ’ firing coach shanahan mon dec 30 , 2013 10 : 15 pm est officials warn of email scam mon dec 30 , 2013 6 : 15 pm est relations between sri lanka and the seychelles have been on an upswing over the ( ... )
the seychelles minister for tourism , alain st ange , is campaigning to be elected ( ... )
foreign lawyers to be allowed to practice in the seychelles speaking at a fundraising event organized by the mawella catholic parish at uru-mawella ward , moshi rural district , the former premier described characteristics of a good leader as one who is voted by the people , and not one who spreads cash all over the country for leadership .
mr sumaye served as premier for ten years but only made it to the ccm five aspirants shortlisting in 2005 , behind winner jakaya kikwete , dr salim ahmed salim , prof. mark mwandosya and ahead of dr abdallah kigoda .
he warned that the ruling party would lose the next election if it picks a corrupt candidate , in what appeared to be a swipe at mr lowassa , his successor at the premier ’ s post .
mr sumaye accused his successor of misleading the public that he was behind a water project in shinyanga .
mr sumaye was premier at the time , mr lowassa serving as minister for water and livestock development .
set up in august following the breakup of the london-based red kite group , and more focussed on hedging and trading operations , orion mine finance in new york is venturing into africa ( ... )
windhoek hasn ’ t yet found anybody to replace gazprom in developing kudu ’ s gas but has nonetheless launched studies on a power plant projet to be supplied by the field . ( ... )
already operating the la libertad and limon gold mines in nicaragua , b2gold is poised to begin building a new mine at otjikoto in namibia in coming weeks . ( ... )
world + 2 others deuxième commission : il faut renforcer la résilience des petits états insulaires , menacés parfois de disparition , déclarent les délégations lors d ’ une table ronde la commission économique et financière ( deuxième commission ) s ’ est réunie ce matin dans la cadre d ’ une table ronde organisée sur le thème : « renforcer la résilience des petits états insulaires en développement dans le contexte du développement durable » .
“ for us , it is a critical issue for the survival of our people ” , makurita baaro said during a panel discussion on “ strengthening the resilience of small island developing states within the context of sustainable development ” .
on a windy day in thaba-bosiu , 40km from lesotho ’ s capital , maseru , nkoliopa mosotho is inspecting his parched fields .
like many other rural farmers in lesotho , he was banking on winter snowfall to soften the iron-hard ground and allow him to plough , but none fell .
copyright © irin 2014 .
all rights reserved .
this material comes to you via irin , the humanitarian news and analysis service of the un office for the coordination of humanitarian affairs .
the opinions expressed do not necessarily reflect those of the united nations or its member states .
the boundaries , names and designations used on maps on this site and links to external sites do not imply official endorsement or acceptance by the un .
republication is subject to terms and conditions as set out in the irin copyright page.editorial | cadran politic totul era atât de minunat .
sondaje peste sondaje în care crin antonescu scade .
o mână de ajutor din partea acestuia care fie nu înțelege ce i se întâmplă , fie înțelege dar nu-i pasă și s-a resemnat că va trebui să se mulțumească doar cu amintirea interimatului din timpul „ loviturii de stat ” .
rar a fost văzut o prestație atât de lamentabilă a unui candidat la președinție , ...
forumul desfășurat în românia , la care delegația chineză a stat a la long , fără a se uita la ceas reprezintă indubitabil un mare succes politic .
românia s-a ales cu promisiunea atragerii a jumătate din fondurile alocate de china întregii regiuni .
provocarea este ca el să nu se transforme într-o mare dezamăgire economică .
protestele împotriva folosirii cianurilor pentru exploatarea aurului la roșia montana continuă .
și pe măsură ce ele continuă , devin din ce în ce mai bine organizate și cu un impact politic greu de evaluat în momentul de față . după douăzeci de ani , piața universității subminează din nou partidul lui ion iliescu .
criza din siria nu mai este de mult o contestare politică a puterii şi nici un conflict limitat în cadrul frontierelor ţării .
a devenit un război civil crunt şi chiar unul internaţional .
este o confruntare sângeroasă în care au murit mii , chiar zeci de mii de oameni .
sute de mii s-au refugiat în alte ţări .
după patru ani succesivi de criză financiară , economică şi mai recent politică ( neo ) liberalismul îşi arată toate hibele .
din 1990 , o dată cu căderea regimurilor comuniste în europa de est asistăm la un asalt continuu al liberalismului şi în ultimii ani ai neoliberalismului .
ni se spune mereu de către politicienii liberali de pretutindeni că statul este „ un administrator prost ” ...
anul 2012 a debutat în românia cu ample proteste împotriva clasei politice şi cu speranţa că societatea civilă din ţara noastră ar putea reveni ca o alternativă în construcţia şi elaborarea de politici publice şi de supraveghere activă a vieţii democratice .
celebra trupă rem , cea care a lansat melodia cu titlul de mai sus nu se mai simte nici ea foarte bine , căci tocmai s-a destrămat , parcă , tocmai ca să întărească şi mai mult pesimismul ce se abate peste lume în ultimele luni .
criza economică , socială şi politică care a început de câtva vreme pare a cuprinde întreaga lume , fără excepţie .
în lipsă de variante , pd a ales să meargă încă o dată pe mâna lui traian băsescu , dovedind că rămâne un partid mic , incapabil să evolueze în absenţa unui tătuc .
a spune că la congres a câştigat emil boc este o glumă condescendentă .
emil boc nu poate să mai câştige nimic .
are o cotă de încredere minusculă , subminată de deciziile impopulare , bâlbâielile administrative , nepotism ...
revoltele populaţiei din statele arabe împotriva propriilor regimuri sunt relatate zilnic în mass-media încă de la debutul lor în decembrie 2010 .
cel mai adesea auzim vorbindu-se despre „ opoziţia pro-democraţie ” care demonstrează în stradă împotriva lide ­ rilor autoritarişti şi a guvernelor pe care le conduc .
este demo ­ craţia compatibilă cu mentalul colectiv arab ?
demo ­ craţia ...
traian băsescu scade în sondaje , dar nu din cauza crizei .
toată lumea ştie că , dintre toţi candidaţii potenţiali la alegerile prezidenţiale , marinarul este cel mai pregătit să găsească şi să aplice soluţii .
faţă de mircea geoană sau crin antonescu , al căror discurs este încă abstract , distant , „ american ” , ca o bicicletă pedalând în gol , traian băsescu prinde concretul ...
fatal migrant vessel capsize in turks and caicos prompts calls for inquiry new date for extradition of former turks and caicos premier war of words escalates over turks and caicos attorney general an ongoing basis .
inclusion in the directory is not meant to be a as we do our strategic planning i would like us all to keep four important things in mind : the availability of priests and deacons to minister to the needs of our local church and its parishes .
the infrastructure and financial health of our parishes -- how are we doing , how and where are we spending our resources .
how can we insure that our clergy are healthy and able to minister to our needs ?
are we stretching them too thin ?
how can we help them better serve us ?
couch slouch | america ’ s cultural decline can be measured by espn ’ s upcoming bcs coverage . ( 12 / 29 / 2013 7 : 03 : 24 pm ) the first two suspects were discovered during a search of the khao fah laep and khao saming hills in lop buri 's chai badan district by police from lop buri and samut prakan 's ratcha thewa police station .
mr somkhuan was arrested at his house in samut sakhon 's krathum baen district .
police seized 360,000 baht from mr sirisak and about 1.1 million baht from mr supatcha . another 1.1 million baht was found hidden in a jar at the house of mr sirisak 's wife in chai badan district .
another team of police seized 500,000 baht from mr somkhuan 's house .
the suspect threw a bag containing another 60,000 baht into a bush near his house , according to police .
the suspects have been charged with colluding to rob the bank .
trust noone at the airport and watch for touts and those offering taxis inside the airport .
as of june 2008 there are now more touts loitering around the entrance doors and inside.the airport authoritiews turn a blind eye to it all .
more [ airport scams & thefts ] [ airport scam news ] [ airline news ] [ suvarnabumi airport ] [ cheap thailand when it comes to the center-stanton high school choir and band students , there are few things as treasured as a chance to go to europe as a northern ambassador of music .
privacy policyterms of useabout uscontact usemploymentlinksventure marketing © 2013 bhg , inc . all rights reserved. iframe.ifr this is the introductory lecture to a beginner 's course in algebraic topology given by n j wildberger of the school of mathematics and statistics at unsw in ...
here we delve a bit into the realm of topology , adding a notion of " closeness " to our sets and seeing how that helps us understand the real numbers .
the book of my face : http : / / www.facebook.com / ishter want to support my transcriptions ?
don ...
u cut my lifetear it down from both sidesand oh i wish i could be the pain in your headonly the scream left after you finish deadah these stringshurt yet i want to play themjust for youbut i am falling apartcrawling the groundonly misery is foundtruly i don 't mindbut every time it feels like i 'm falling apartlike i 'm crawling the groundwant to scream outi hate to look back quand je serai grand , je serai bee geesou bien pilote de formule 1en attendant je me déguisec 'est vrai que tous les costumes me vont bienle rouge le noirle blues l 'espoiret moide toutes les couleurs j 'aime en voirc 'est comme ça qu 'est ce que j 'y peuxc 'est comme ça qu 'est ce que j 'y peux ( faudrait savoir ce que tu veux ) ( faudrait savoir ce que tu veux ) c 'est comme ça qu 'est ce que j 'y peuxc 'est comme ça qu 'est ce que j 'y peux ( faudrait savoir ce que tu veux ) ( faudrait savoir ce que tu veux ) quand je serai grand ce sera facileenfin je saurai qui je suismais en attendant je me défilec 'est vraije me dérobe et je me fuisje pleurs , je ris , j 'ai peur , envie , je sais de toutes les couleurs , je vais en voira qui la faute ? je suis l 'un et l 'autredouble jea qui la faute ? je suis l 'un et l 'autre ( faudrait savoir ce que tu veux ) ( faudrait savoir ce que tu veux ) c 'est comme ça qu 'est ce que j 'y peuxc 'est comme ça qu 'est ce que j 'y peux ( faudrait savoir ce que tu veux ) ( faudrait savoir ce que tu veux ) après tout qu 'est ce que j 'y peuxaprès tout qu 'est ce que j 'y peux ( faudrait savoir ce que tu veux ) ( faudrait savoir ce que tu veux ) ( faudrait savoir ce que tu veux ) ( faudrait savoir ce que tu veux ) quand je serai grand qu 'on se le diseje serai vendeur dans les magasinsen entendant , je me déguiseen chantant dans ma salle de bain ( faudrait savoir ce que tu veux ) quand je serai grand je serai dans le show biz ... j 'ai peur , je ris , j 'ai peur , envie , je sais , de toutes les couleurs j 'aime en voir.a qui la faute je suis l 'un et l 'autredouble jea qui la faute je suis l 'un et l 'autrefaudrait savoir c 'que tu veux ( bis ) c 'est comme ça qu 'est ce que j 'y peux ( bis ) faudrait savoir c 'que tu veux ( bis ) après tout qu 'est-ce que j 'y peux ( bis ) faudrait savoir c 'que tu veux ( bis ) hou hou houfaudrait savoir c 'que tu veux . ( bis ) quand je serai grand qu 'on se le diseje serai vendeur dans les magasins.en attendant je me déguiseen chanteur dans ma salle de bain.faudrait savoir c 'que tu veux ( bis ) c 'est comme ça qu 'est ce que j 'y peux ( bis ) faudrait savoir c 'que tu veux ( bis ) c 'est comme ça qu 'est-ce que j 'y peux ( bis ) newseconomyfinancehealth carereal estateretailwealthautosearningsenergymediapoliticscommentaryspecial reportsasiaeuropemarketspre-marketsu.s.asiaeuropestockscommoditiescurrenciesbondsfundsetfsinvestingfinancial advisorspersonal financecnbc explainsportfoliowatchliststock screenerfund screenertechmobilesocial mediaenterprisegamingcybersecuritysmall businessfranchisingfinancingmanagementvideolatest videodigital workshopu.s. videoasia videoeurope videoceo interviewsanalyst interviewsfull episodesclosed captioningshowswatch livecnbc u.s.cnbc asia-pacificcnbc europecnbc worldfull episodescnbcabout cnbcsite mapvideo reprintsadvertisecareershelpcontactprivacy policyterms of serviceindependent programming reportlatest news releasesrsscertain market data provided by thomson reutersdata also provided bydata is a real-time snapshot * data is delayed at least 15 minutesglobal business and financial news , stock quotes , and market data and analysis © 2014 cnbc llc . all rights reserved.a division of nbcuniversal greenland news headlines mass ” was celebrated on thursday , aug .
1 , in missoula by father gary reller of st. the mass , each received an alumni medallion bearing the lsh crest and blessed by & ldquo ; agriculture is one of the main economic sectors in tanzania .
therefore if you do not work in the sector you will not be able to have any meaningful impact on poverty reduction .
we have prioritised the agriculture and water sectors as our priority areas of intervention in the country , & rdquo ; said the ambassador .
he said the initiative was in line with the iita vision of fighting hunger and poverty in africa .
they include the two deadly cassava diseases , cassava brown streak and cassava mosaic , as well as banana xanthomonus wilt ( bxw ) and soybean rust. and i thought , ‘ is there a way i can help ? ’ ” at mass , and soon at blessed trinity he will be the start of a new year makes me feel hopeful and empowered , a feeling i hope others share .
the possibilities for 2014 are boundless and it is in all of our hands to make sure we leave our children a nation that is greater , stronger , and more resilient than it was yesterday .
" the huffington post " is a registered trademark of thehuffingtonpost.com , inc .
all rights reserved . irin | africa | southern africa | zambia the life and career of former cream drummer ginger baker is the subject of a new documentary to be screened in broadstairs stars set to descend on dockyard for new frankenstein film mişcarea pentru o naţiune civică susţine revendicările legitime ale populatiei romaniei legate de oprirea derapajului democratic din ţara noastră .
mnc apreciază civismul mişcarilor populare şi condamnă orice formă de violenţă , directă sau simbolică , căci scopul democraţiei este obţinerea şi menţinerea păcii sociale .
parish information ( select the first letter of the city in which the parish is located . ) abcdefghiklmnoprstvw “ geopolitics of xxi century will be cosmo-humanist in its essence ” – about the power of information and policy of millennium iii with acad .
albert ignatenko | cadran politic home english “ geopolitics of xxi century will be cosmo-humanist in its essence ” – about the power of information and policy of millennium iii with acad .
albert ignatenko we have a project that proved to be functional .
it is already working .
we do not depend on anyone to put it into practice .
and how it looms this elite of the informational era ?
if you ask a psychologist or a teacher , or even a politician “ what is elite ? ” , no one would be able to give an answer … what kind of students are preferring you ?
it ’ s easier if there is a certain educational or spiritual background ?
how will be geopolitics of the xxi century , mr. ignatenko ?
how many such politicians know you ?
because , honestly , i don 't know too many which to give signs of “ spiritual awakening ” … you mentioned ( in a previous interview ) about a conservation program of romania 's geno-found .
it ’ s an indirect way of warning that our nation is in danger ?
« previous “ geopolitica secolului xxi va fi una de factură cosmo-umanista ” – despre puterea informatiei si politica mileniului iii , impreuna cu acad .
albert ignatenko © 2013 cadran politic · rss · designed by theme junkie · powered by wordpress : : : . : : : . : : : welcome to apanews.net : tv , news , photos you 'll also see a link for resources for schools and a link for resources for finance and technology .
however , brizzi said the government has to improve the infrastructure so as to motivate more members of private sector to invest in crop production . & # 8220 ; eu , socrate , am învăţat această incantaţie ( descântec ) , acolo , în oaste , de la un medic trac , unul dintre ucenicii lui zamolxis , despre care se zice că îi face pe oameni nemuritori .
spunea tracul acela că zamolxis , care este şi un zeu , ne învăţa că după cum nu trebuie să încercăm a trata ochii , fără să ţinem seama de cap , nici capul nu poate fi tratat , neţinându-se seama ...
17 mai a fost ziua mondială de luptă împotriva hipertensiunii arteriale .
pentru anul 2012 activităţile de celebrare s-au desfăşurat sub sloganul „ un stil de viaţă sănătos – o tensiune arterială normală ” .
scopul campaniei a fost de a informa populaţia cu privire la beneficiile unui stil de viaţă sănătos , pentru menţinerea tensiunii arteriale la valori normale .
elita mondiala a medicinei dentare s-a reunit la bucuresti & # 8211 ; bass 2011 grand hotel rin din bucurești a găzduit în perioada 28 aprilie-1 mai 2011 cel mai amplu eveniment științific al medicinei dentare din românia , cea de-a 16-ediție a congresului societății balkanice de stomatologie . , manifestare patronată de către președintele elect al congresului , prof. univ .
dr. norina consuela forna .
agenda manifestării a cuprins un program știintific variat , reunind ...
operaţiile estetice sunt la mare căutare şi în rândul bărbaţilor în zilele noastre , se pare că intervenţiile chirurgicale este ­ ti ­ ce nu sunt utilizate doar de către femei .
un nou raport statistic in ­ di ­ că faptul că mai mulţi bărbaţi de vârstă mijlocie apelează la procedurile estetice decât altădată .
conform noilor date de la societatea americană de chirurgie plastică ( asp ) , numărul de băr ­ baţi care optează pentru facelift , liposucţie şi ...
specialiştii în controlul infecţiilor se străduiesc să găsească o soluţie pentru gripa porcină care a lovit mexicul , statele unite şi alte zone ale globului .
comunitatea internaţională este mai pregătită ca oricând pentru a face faţă ameninţării ca virusul să se răspândească , asigură unul dintre experţii onu pe probleme de sănătate , citat de bbc .
în primele luni ale primăverii acestui an , majoritatea spitalelor au fost depăşite de avalanşa pacienţilor cu viroze .
în luna martie , numărul internărilor a depăşit 70.000 pe săptămână .
din păcate , s-au înregistrat şi câteva decese în rândul copiilor .
spitalele sunt pline de bolnavi care suferă de viroze , afec ­ ţiune cu debut acut , incu ­ ba ­ ţie scurtă şi care pare a nu fi ...
cancerul cervical este o boală în care celulele normale se transformă în celule maligne ( canceroase ) în ţesutul cervical .
cervixul este porţiunea cea mai joasă şi mai îngustă a uterului ( organul cavitar , sub formă de pară în care creşte fătul ) .
cervixul face legătura între uter şi vagin .
infecţia cu hpv reprezintă cel mai important factor de risc pentru cancerul cervical , fiind ...
diagnosticarea incorectă sau prea târzie a cancerelor afectează milioane de femei cancerul de col uterin , ovarian sau de sân sunt de multe ori diagnosticate greşit sau prea târziu , ceea ce duce la moartea a 70 % dintre femeile care suferă de una dintre aceste boli , potrivit emisarului pe probleme de sănătate al depar ­ tamentului de stat al sua , cunoscuta actriţă fran drescher .
“ cancerul de col uterin şi cel ovarian sunt deseori diagnosticate greşit – cancerul de ...
alimentaţia sănătoasă , mişcarea şi renunţarea la fumat sunt , potrivit medicilor , principalele mijloace de prevenire a diabetului zaharat – maladie cu o mortalitate de aproape 80 la sută şi pentru care , în prezent , un român din trei prezintă risc ridicat de îmbolnăvire .
“ în general , în întreaga lume a crescut riscul de diabet zaharat .
se pare că pro ­ gre ­ sul omenirii se întoarce ...
relatări nedocumentate ale personalului medical din africa şi asia de sud-est scot la lumină un nou curent îngrijorător : medicamente folosite cu succes de ani de zile împotriva malariei , a tuberculozei şi a hiv încep să nu mai dea rezultate .
diagnosticarea eronată a bolii împreună cu folosirea neadecvată sau excesivă a medicamentelor joacă un rol important , mai ales în ţări unde ... © 2013 cadran politic · rss · designed by theme junkie · powered by wordpressgoloading ... > > view all results for " " enter multiple symbols separated by commaslondon quotes now availablego harmonisation of laws on fake goods in ea region coming na the guardian reporter as the number of bodies found keeps rising , residents ask for a miracle : an end to the killing .
toronto mayor rob ford is calling the storm one of the worst in the city ’ s history .
claudia membreno gomez was scheduled to fly to the u.s. from honduras the day after gunmen shot her in front of her four children .
lazaro cardenas is one of the busiest ports in latin america .
but has business slowed since troops pushed out the drug trade ?
the new pope is changing the rules at the vatican .
to cut smuggling , bill would legalize production and sales for all the tra director for taxpayer services and education , richard kayombo the tra director for taxpayer services and education , richard kayombo said yesterday in dar es salaam that the move is intended to make the devices affordable , by checking on possible monopoly pricing .
thank you so much for helping me greatly with the rent i owed my landlord .
i know there are so many people and families that are in need of your assistance .
i never thought i would end up in a situation where i had no choice but to ask for help .
your kind response gave me hope .
i felt blessed and fortunate to receive your help .
the bread and the groceries that day were also a needed and welcome surprise for which i was so very grateful .
thank you for caring , thank you for all the hard work you do and for your help .
i am grateful to you and the people and companies that made the donations possible .
i must not have been alone as i felt , for somehow jesus got me to your door .
now your favourite km group newspaper is available in an will place it on our photo sales website so that you can purchase a the south african firm sunbird has penned a memorandum of understanding with eskom to use gas from the ibhubesi field .
but marketing it lies far in the future . ( ... )
companies like shell that are champing at the bit for shale gas licenses are going to have to wait for several months . ( ... )
it all got off to a good start for the dozen or so heads of companies accompanying french president françois hollande on his state visit to south africa on 14 and 15 october . ( ... )
petmin has no end of ambitions for a “ junior . ”
the company ( listed on london ’ s aim and the johannesburg stock exchange ) , which began turning out anthracite at somkhele in kwazulu natal ( ... )
goldplat plc has fleshed out its executive team with the appointment of nigel patrick ( ... )
the catholic church has been a continuous beacon of light in standing up for the sanctity of life .
securing the rights of the unborn and the marginalized members of society is our duty and our obligation as followers of christ .
organized efforts help us to do this more effectively .
groups like " right to life of wyoming " and " catholics united for life " spur us on to a greater awareness of the issues and encourage us to get involved .
if you need more information , contact deacon vernon dobelmann at vdobelmann @ dioceseofcheyenne.org the controversy over who killed president john f. kennedy has now raged for half a century .
too much of the discussion about the 50th anniversary of kennedy 's death has been regurgitating the debate over who was responsible for his murder .
it is a diversion and a waste of time . ...
walmart workers and allies protest , but where was the l.a. times ?
watt now ?
( or , can mel watt fix the housing crisis ? )
let us now praise herb gardner , author of a thousand clowns fhfa 's ed demarco : kissing the ass of the banking class confronting bigotry in all its forms : when is the word " jew " an offensive stereotype ?
summer reading about what ails america and how to fix it why are walmart billionaires bankrolling phony school ' reform ' in la ?
wayne lapierre does not speak for most gun owners or nra members who are the greatest jewish baseball players of all time ?
" we take care of our own " vs.
" you 're on your own " look for the union label for your labor day bbq " the huffington post " is a registered trademark of thehuffingtonpost.com , inc .
all rights reserved.noua conducere de la beijing- o reală schimbare în politica chineză ? | cadran politic home politică externă noua conducere de la beijing- o reală schimbare în politica chineză ?
sfârsitul de saptamâna care a trecut a marcat un nou & # 8220 ; început & # 8221 ; pentru aparatul politic de conducere al chinei .
sâmbata , 15 martie jiang zemin , 76 , s-a retras în umbra politica pentru a face loc lui hu jintao , 60 , deja sef al partidului comunist chinez si mostenitor declarat al decedatului deng xiaoping ca presedinte al republicii jiang zemin a fost reales de catre delegatii congresului national al poporului ca sef al comisiei guvernamentale în sarcina careia se afla conducerea armatei de 2,5 milioane de soldati a chinei .
jiang conduce si o comisie similara din cadrul partidului si nu a dat semne ca ar intentiona sa renunte la nici una dintre aceste functii .
dealtfel , asteptarile larg exprimate înclina catre o mentinere a unei largi influente din partea acestuia în politica statului , a carui guvern va trebui sa faca fata implicarii din ce în ce mai profunde a chinei în afacerile internationale , precum si cresterii instabilitatii ca urmare a reformelor economice , pe plan intern .
zhu ronji , prim-ministru si principal factor de raspundere în politica economica a predat portofoliul lui wen jiabao , lasând în urma reputatia unui reformator iritabil , recunoscut pentru adresarea directa , sensul umorului si maiestria în administrarea sarcinilor economice , care a jucat un rol determinant în recuperarea economiei chineze dupa criza asiatica .
numirea noului cabinet chinez , care a urmat instalarii lui hu , constituie un crescendo în primul transfer ordonat de putere din cei 54 de ani de comunism în china .
noului cabinet îi revine sarcina de a continua politica de liberalizare economica a chinei , dar si de a mentine un control politic strâns al partidului comunist .
o prezentare succinta a figurilor proeminente ale actualei puteri chineze îl are în frunte pe hu jintao , presedinte , ales cu o covârsitoare majoritate de 2937 voturi pentru si 4 împotriva , wen jiabao , prim ministru si numarul unu ca responsabilitate în administrarea economiei , ales de asemenea cu 2906 voturi pentru , 3 împotriva si 16 abtineri .
enumerarea continua cu li zhaoxing , fostul ambasador al chinei în statele unite si ambasador al chinei la onu ca ministru de externe , cao gangchuan general militar implicat în programul spatial al chinei ca ministru al apararii , jin renquing ca ministru de finante si zhou yongkang ca ministru al securitatii publice .
zeng qinghong , cel mai apropiat colaborator al lui jiang a fost numit vicepresedinte .
el ar putea constitui un rival al lui hu , având reputatia ca fiind cel mai bine conectat tânar lider al partidului si un expert al jocurilor politice .
putine schimbari reale sunt asteptate de la noua conducere chineza .
reforma politica a constituit un subiect tabu de la evenimentele petrecute în piata tiananmen în 1989 , dar noua generatie care vine la putere este fara îndoiala mult mai expusa curentelor de opinie internationale decât predecesorii sai .
de aceea se asteapta din partea acestora mai multa toleranta la critica si o presa mai libera , în special daca aceasta este vazuta ca ajutând la eradicarea coruptiei înfloritoare ce afecteaza imaginea partidului .
în chestiunea taiwan-ului , considerat în continuare ca o provincie renegata a chinei , nu se asteapta o pozitie schimbata din partea noii conduceri .
analistii estimeaza ca aceasta va fi la fel de suspicioasa în privinta presedintelui taiwanului , chen shui-bian si chiar mai precauta în asumarea unor riscuri care ar putea duce la pierderea initiativei diplomatice .
pe plan intern , provocarea majora o constituie preluarea conducerii unei societati de 1,3 miliarde de oameni , aflata într-o stare crescânda de nemultumire datorata luptei continue cu somajul , saracia rurala si celorlalte constrângeri atrase de reforma economica si competitia indusa prin aderarea la organizatia mondiala a comertului .
datorita necesitatii mentinerii stabilitatii pe plan intern , dar si climatului international în care se situeaza china la moment , opinia expertilor internationali înclina spre a pronostica probabilitatea unor schimbari majore în politica dusa de noul guvern ca fiind foarte redusa .
7 and organ at age 12 .
his work as a http : / / www.quickbooks-tutorial.net / non-profit-contributions-setup-in-quickbooks-2013 we reponsded to a questioned we are received from tom mcmanus .
question ...
is non profit bookkeeping different ?
it sure is - and quickbooks non profit edition can help get you on track of your non profit 's accounting .
this video wal ...
get started in solavei http : / / www.solavei.com / kcrabb solavei is honored to partner with non profit organizations to support the programs and outreaches that ...
this is still a work-in-progress and it 's an art film , not a science film . > join dr. bob , the drugless doctor , for # optimalu in 2014 history of the sisters of charity of leavenworth in wyoming townnewstownsportstownbusinesstownartstownlifefood & dininghome & gardenkids & familieshealth & wellnessfashion & styletownguidestowncalendars remarkable comeback seasono ’ connor can ’ t hold leadblues start strong , but fizzle a certain type of readerbunnies have life after playboysongbird is having the time of her life remarkable comeback seasonbittersweet end to seasonhawks off to a hot start in co-ed volleyball today & # 039 ; s streeter : need a new council ? renovations to spadina rental units comingst .
mike ’ s grad to head school pat smith trades in cleats for clown shoesa certain type of readeramy sky awakens to joyful messaging no grey cup ring yet , but hinds ‘ absolutely blessed ’ norsemen are back to defend city titlelocal girls dominate ofsaa cross country a certain type of readerhorror in midtown unveiledpianist hits all the right notes the jews of yementhe untold story of almost a million ... playing with passioncan the cbc be salvaged ? we & # 8217 ; re not going to take much of your time .
but we did want to take a president : this is a season for millions of americans to be together stories of the season . & # 8221 ; and in every room of the house , we tried to tell a story about who we are as americans and how we celebrate the are serving so that the rest of us can enjoy the blessings we cherish gop on our military : ' these are the heroes who keep our nation free ' delightful events and sharing gifts .
as we reach for one of those gifts under the tree and untie a bow , i encourage all of us to is the time of year to look at all the good things and all the blessings years by our men and women serving in uniform in the united states military .
they serve in our homeland and in faraway places across the the freest and most prosperous nation in the world & # 8212 ; the united states of and dreams in this country .
we are a grateful nation.and with all do not have significant means ; those who live on shoestring budgets or their tables .
may we each consider how personally we can are indeed , the most generous in the world.i wish each of you a all the best for a wonderful new year .
may god continue to bless you , dozens of times before and even if americans ' eyes now glaze at the claimed ignorance of so many of his responsibilities and underlings ' failures and violated protocols , not to mention the constitution .
the media has turned on him over his administration & # 8217 ; s faux transparency .
but in fairness to its members , the millionaire obama has been involved in so many scandals , gaffes and failings in the nearly five years that his unelected mother-in-law has lived in the white house at taxpayer expense , that no one covering him can keep up with them all as dodge , as he did the one about his now infamous lie of the year .
feel free to add your own unasked questions in the comments below. able to find the alleged ringleaders and interview them , can you explain and this health care law is a bad product for young people .
where the u.s. saw rosy democratic futures , ex-soviet lands now see gloom it 's not the one where a majority of americans ( 51 % ) now fail to see obama as a strong and decisive leader .
nor is it the one where a shrinking minority ( 45 % ) now see obama as honest and trustworthy .
letterman : snowstorms all over the eastern u.s ..
sad because no one can get to the unemployment office .
the chicagoan is so surrounded by sycophants and access czar valerie jarrett that no one has the chutzpah to describe the discordant reality to the boss .
he has a professional 's sharp eye for composition and seemingly unfettered access to obama 's official and backstage activities .
pat toomey on the fiasco of his attempted obamacare enrollment can you imagine going to your doctor or to a hospital in january only to find out you & # 8217 ; re not actually insured ? 201220142016afghanistanafricaandrew malcolmann romneybill clintonbooksbudgetcaliforniacanadachicagochinacongressc-spand.c.debatesdebtdebtsdefensedeficitdemocratic partydnceconomyeducationegyptelectoral mapelectoral mapenergyenvironmentfloridafundraisinggaffegaffesgeorge w. bushgermanygovernorsgunshealthcareherman cainhillary clintonhispanicshollywoodhouse of representativesillegal immigrationimmigrationiowairaniraqisraeljobsjoe bidenjoe biden updatejohn boehnerjohn kerryjokesjon huntsmanlibyamediamexicomichelle obamamichiganmitt romneynasanational debtnational defensenational securitynevadanew hampshirenews conferencenewt gingrichnflnorth carolinanorth koreaobamaobama job approvalobama jobs billobamacareohiopaul ryanpollsramadanreligionrepublican partyrick perryrick santorumright track-wrong trackron paulrussiasarah palinscandalssenatesouth carolinaspendingsportssunday showssupreme courtsyriataxesterrorismtexastextunemploymentunionsvideowashingtonweekly remarkswhateverwhite housewisconsin how irving ’ s panini america plans to play in the world cup end of the year deals mon dec 30 , 2013 8 : 27 pm est blog : why garrett has to go mon dec 30 , 2013 6 : 27 pm est fire rages at scrap yard mon dec 30 , 2013 6 : 27 pm est big federal sales tax change in 2014 mon dec 30 , 2013 6 : 27 pm est setup begins for big d nye in victory plaza mon dec 30 , 2013 8 : 27 pm est justice of the peace returns to the ballot mon dec 30 , 2013 8 : 27 pm est mother arrested in stabbing of her 3-year-old son mon dec 30 , 2013 6 : 27 pm est unt health science center , uta get new presidents in 2013 sun dec 29 , 2013 8 : 27 pm est domestic dispute leads to standoff sun dec 29 , 2013 8 : 27 pm est barricaded man surrenders to arlington police sun dec 29 , 2013 10 : 27 am est state gas tax could be replaced by mileage tax for oregon drivers – stateline the mileage meters would also be linked to cars ’ fuel gauges to measure and report how much gas motorists use .
what is it like to drive with a mileage meter ?
in & # 8220 ; provider , & # 8221 ; choose & # 8220 ; over-the-air lineup & # 8221 ; if you use an antenna , for instance a kg of carrots is now trading at 2,000 / - from 1,500 / - a month ago .
similarly , a kg of beef has gone up to 5,000 / - per kg from 4,500 / - a month ago .
kuala lumpur , 30 dis ( bernama ) -- permintaan tinggi perabot kayu di colombia menyediakan potensi besar bagi eksport produk kayu malaysia ke negaraamerika selatan itu .
import perabot kayu colombia mencatatkan pertumbuhan lebih tinggi berbandingeksport bagi tempoh 2010-2012.perbadanan pembangunan perdagangan luar malaysia ( matrade ) dalam satukenyataan hari ini berkata peningkatan itu adalah ... ( 12 / 30 / 2013 3 : 40 : 16 am ) & ldquo ; i condemn the killing of luis de jesús lima and call on the authorities to do all in their power to bring the culprits of this crime to trial , & rdquo ; director-general irina bokova said in a news release .
it had all the makings of a routine accident call .
hate your job ?
complaining is fun but maybe it 's time to get a plan for 2014 .
there 's a lot of disruption on the way for enterprise technology .
here are predictions for 2014 from the founder and ceo of icreon tech .
chama cha demokrasia na maendeleo ( chadema ) national youth wing- bavicha - has urged the government to evolve a strong strategic plan for a girl-child education in the country . & ldquo ; the number of pupils left out of the system is big enough to jeopardize the education system in the country & hellip ; , & rdquo ; he said .
two weeks before pope francis was elected by the college of cardinals , i prepared a column for the montana catholic entitled “ thoughts as we anticipate a new pope . ”
i wrote , “ i offer this humble reflection on the qualities i would like to see in the one chosen as pope benedict ’ s successor . ”
what a gift pope francis is to us .
his actions are a reminder to be cognizant of how we treat each other .
his service to the poor and needy reminds us of the humanity of every living person .
as he tries to slip out and minister to people most in need , the world watches his compassion .
as we approach the end of another year of charitable giving ...
it is time for us to put our charitable paperwork in order ...
parishes and the diocese do their very best to track all gifts received , but if a donor finds errors or omissions on a statement , alerting the parish or diocese is imperative .
blessed trinity parish in missoula hosted the second annual no room at the inn : a festival of crèches , a fundraiser for family promise of missoula and habitat for humanity of missoula dec .
13-15 .
december 5the end of the beginning of mending muni finances beulah -- the state ’ s republican senator said he wants to keep coal ash regulation out of the federal government ’ s hands .
a look at political perks before new law begins mon dec 30 , 2013 7 : 10 pm est a pond has some neighbors up in arms about its condition mon dec 30 , 2013 7 : 10 pm est the highs and lows of 2013 in the csra mon dec 30 , 2013 5 : 10 pm est suspected shooters family speaks out to wjbf sun dec 29 , 2013 7 : 10 pm est morgan dares students to be successful mon dec 30 , 2013 09 : 10 am est by jessica loeding jessica sun dec 29 , 2013 03 : 10 am est two arrested for drugs in wilcox county sat dec 28 , 2013 9 : 10 pm est dooly ems opens new station tue dec 24 , 2013 11 : 10 am est steel going up at darton thu dec 19 , 2013 1 : 10 pm est club donates to samaritan ’ s purse tue dec 17 , 2013 11 : 10 am est gainesville womans death puzzles investigators mon dec 30 , 2013 7 : 10 pm est gainesville man caught up in holiday identity theft at retailer mon dec 30 , 2013 01 : 10 am est gainesville woman killed at home near dacula sun dec 29 , 2013 7 : 10 pm est macon realtor to co-star in hgtv & x92 ; s & x91 ; beat the house & x92 ; sat dec 28 , 2013 11 : 10 pm est kwanzaa celebration schedule in macon announced fri dec 27 , 2013 5 : 10 pm est macon man shot in buttocks on broadway fri dec 27 , 2013 5 : 10 pm est a touch of bleach may save the day sun dec 29 , 2013 11 : 10 am est suspect tries to outrun cops on motorcycle thu dec 26 , 2013 9 : 10 pm est ’ charlie and the chocolate factory ’ at cox elementary wed dec 25 , 2013 11 : 10 pm est tow to go available for new year ’ s eve mon dec 30 , 2013 3 : 10 pm est tow to go available for new yea ’ s eve mon dec 30 , 2013 11 : 10 am est new year ’ s day openings and closings mon dec 30 , 2013 01 : 10 am est best of 2013 : effingham now mon dec 30 , 2013 01 : 10 am est gop can count ways to senate majority sun dec 29 , 2013 5 : 10 pm est tiftarea rebounds against macon area mon dec 30 , 2013 9 : 10 pm est lady devils split last two at colquitt mon dec 30 , 2013 9 : 10 pm est dura eidson smith mon dec 30 , 2013 7 : 10 pm est eldon stanley haas mon dec 30 , 2013 7 : 10 pm est new overpass ahead of schedule sun dec 29 , 2013 05 : 10 am est former valdostan discovers pewter fortune sat dec 28 , 2013 07 : 10 am est of putting it all on myself to do , ” he said .
as he heads to the next stage of his life , “ if god is really calling you to do it , it is going to be the happiest you will be , ” he the best part of my life is my husband , dan .
the second best is alabama football .
i ’ m a skeptic , a creative , and a follower of jesus , figuring out this journey of faith one shaky step at a time .
nfl | browns : haslam vows to get right coach this timecolumbus dispatchbrowns brass vows to do better this timemassillon independentsee all 1,304 sourcesrelated cleveland browns chargers ' win over chiefs serves as microcosm of seasonthe desert sunchargers hope to eliminate afc north champion bengalscbs localsee all 872 sourcesrelated san diego chargers the daughter of a financial advisor , emily bach once wanted to fall far from the tree .
" i thought i was going to go to law school , but my dad talked me out of it , " she says , laughing .
" we let the professionals do the money management , " she says .
" i do distinguish myself as a portfolio manager , not as a wealth manager , " says rosenau .
" people come to me to manage money for them . "
" you have to understand the reasons for the rally and work through the noise -- from the fed , from the pundits on cnbc , and so on , " she says .
" a healthy correction is inevitable , but i am optimistic for the longer-term growth of the equity markets . "
" it was suggested to me that i should try to start my own practice in the private bank , " she says .
" i didn 't have any clients " -- meaning no dedicated clients for whom she was the lead advisor -- " so that made me nervous . " the hood of a jeep in korea .
he retired in for a 2011 article about his 50 years as a priest .
“ a lot of them have in the past , but however , mntambo made it clear that the meeting had no power to oust the management but the annual general meeting .
however , the chairperson denied to give clarifications regarding embezzlement allegations and violation of tughe ’ s constitution .
when reached for comments , kiwengwa did not answer his phone . & ldquo ; you cannot find a solution to the heavy workload by establishing a [ new ] chamber .
[ the heavy workload the council has ] indicates that the state does not act in accordance with the law , & rdquo ; he added .
according to current law , plaintiffs are able to appeal rulings by chambers of the council to a higher court in the council of state . © 2013 indexmundi - all rights reserveda change of regime | cadran politic there is a strong rejection of how tra ­ ian băsescu is doing politics .
emil boc ’ s replacement would have worked , if the new prime minister had been a radical change and if he had been a leader who knows what he must do and how .
not the case here .
traian băsescu himself made sure to set the length of the leash from the very beginning .
a number of unprovoked errors followed , and the mru project shrank before it had a chance to grow .
apparently traian băsescu still plans to rely on this project , although not even the democrats had welcomed it .
this has dispelled the myth of the president ’ s invincibility and of traian bă ­ sescu as the saviour .
no one is wai ­ ting for a solution from the president any longer .
it is the second băsescu government dismissed by parliament , which proves that democracy cannot be fooled forever , as much of a player as the president may be .
three years have passed since traian băsescu ignored a parliamentary majority and imposed two minority governments backed by the political migrants who have “ defected ” once again today .
beyond the price paid by romania , which is hard to quantify , the other price is quite clear : the president has become an irrelevant politician , and pd-l – on the verge of dismantling and disappearing as a party .
the democratic union of ethnic hun ­ garians in romania ( udmr ) made a huge mistake , not so much by betraying the johannis project , but by promoting a reverse apartheid , i.e. struggling for the isolation and encla ­ visation of the hungarian minority so as to be able to control it .
i said it back in 2007 : an ethnic party is a mistake and the hungarian problem ( and that of the other minorities ) must be taken over by the romanian parties .
the recent issue of the târgu mureş univer ­ sity is the best example of political stupidity , a manoeuvre that damages the hungarians as well as everyone else .
« previousun adevărat român & # 8211 ; interviu cu asr prinţul paul al româniei © 2012 cadran politic · rss · designed by theme junkie · powered by wordpress ferghana information agency , moscow dkt .
shein azindua rasmi jengo jipya la kiwanda cha uchapaji zanzibar our site provides users the opportunity to opt-out of receiving communications from us .
you will notice in emails generated from this web site there is an unsubscribe link at the bottom of the message .
simply click on this link to go to a page that allows you to unsubscribe from any or all of the lists you are subscribed to .
in addition to using the unsubscribe page , you can send an email to websecurity @ hbi.com.
mbarawa directs mbeya varsity to train more oil and gas experts na emmanuel lengwa & ldquo ; yet the nation has a severe shortage of specialists in oil and gas . as you all know , recently mass deposits of gas were discovered in mtwara and lindi region .
therefore , the industry would need many professionals in the future and that is why i advise you to add new courses in science so that we may have professionals of our own , " the minister said .
he said for the country to develop , it must invest in science education so as to have enough specialists in the sector .
one of the strategies , he said , is to increase and improve learning facilities in schools so as to create a conducive environment for youth to read .
" i wanted to get as close to her design as possible , " curtis told reporters .
and he did .
coraliz hopes one day to work at st. jude , so she can set an example for children like herself .
but for the time being , she 'll be one of the countless citizens of planet earth , who watch a shiny ball descend down a pole on tuesday night , as we ring in the dawn of a new year .
unlike the rest of us , however , coraliz may be peering at the tv screen a little closer , just to see if she can catch a glimpse of her own indomitable courage .
for more photos of the 2014 new year 's eve ball , see the slideshow below : newseconomyfinancehealth carereal estateretailwealthautosearningsenergymediapoliticscommentaryspecial reportsasiaeuropemarketspre-marketsu.s.asiaeuropestockscommoditiescurrenciesbondsfundsetfsinvestingfinancial advisorspersonal financecnbc explainsportfoliowatchliststock screenerfund screenertechmobilesocial mediaenterprisegamingcybersecuritysmall businessfranchisingfinancingmanagementvideolatest videodigital workshopu.s. videoasia videoeurope videoceo interviewsanalyst interviewsfull episodesclosed captioningshowswatch livecnbc u.s.cnbc asia-pacificcnbc europecnbc worldfull episodescnbcabout cnbcsite mapvideo reprintsadvertisecareershelpcontactprivacy policyterms of serviceindependent programming reportlatest news releasesrsscertain market data provided by thomson reutersdata also provided bydata is a real-time snapshot * data is delayed at least 15 minutesglobal business and financial news , stock quotes , and market data and analysis © 2014 cnbc llc . all rights reserved.a division of nbcuniversal delaware news headlines - newsbystate.com volunteers brighten holidays for soldiers with thousands of handmade stockings mon dec 30 , 2013 01 : 09 am est new app makes it easier to help the veterans ’ home mon dec 30 , 2013 01 : 09 am est fruitland goes to the dogs mon dec 30 , 2013 01 : 09 am est at widener , a landmark for women in law mon dec 30 , 2013 01 : 09 am est gas prices continue to rise into the new year mon dec 30 , 2013 9 : 09 pm est parents ask for help in finding shooter in teen son ’ s death mon dec 30 , 2013 3 : 09 pm est a missionary and his family were trapped in their home for hours as a gunbattle raged outside .
leaders nurtured by washington now threaten to unravel a significant u.s. achievement .
the presiding judge adjourns the proceedings for two months after morsi deems the trial illegitimate and chaos erupts .
here ’ s a quick way to catch up on the week ’ s news , through some of our favorite photos .
for all foreigners buying houses in thailand and property .
ask us for free the best way to buy for your circumstances .
you will not be disappointed. infringement of privacy and our company will act accordingly .
see january is the new september , when it comes to our expectations concerning tv viewing .
the weather outside is frightful , but the tv can be delightful .
if the fall tv season teaches anything , it ’ s that we like our returning favourites best of all .
new year reflections : the character of the task before us exactly how is the affordable care act an affront to freedom ?
in all the understandable cacophony about the shutdown of government , the underlying trigger to that shutdown -- tea party opposition to the affordable care act -- is in danger of falling out of the public spotlight .
but that must not happen .
the government is being shut down for a reason , ...
why promising to save the middle class may just not be enough !
the unfinished business of the obama administration : the foreclosure crisis the republican crusade against regulation : a " holy war " against workers and consumers ?
doing two things at once : jobs and housing as routes out of recession ?
the danger of losing the plot so early in the play diluting the tea party : the importance of supping with a long spoon fact and fiction in the " state of the union " debate table of contentshow counterfeit drugs end up in home medicine cabinets | kob.com come " taste the difference " for yourself !
at wright 's dairy farm we specialize in fresh " real whipped cream " pastries and personalized cakes !
now you can order our delicious hermits directly from our website .
prison photo of man killed in billings heightsby montana news afghan cop murders american police advisor in kabulby jim kouri looking back at the many bad ideas put forth by our pliticians in 2012by montana news gunman kills two firefighters in upstate new yorkby montana news newsnews indexlocal newsbusinessnation & worldnews galleriesstory archiveobituariesobituaries indexplace an obituarysportssports indexprep sportsoutdoorsgolfdixe state universitysouthern utah universityopinionopinion indexblogsmultimediamultimedia indexvideosnews galleriessports galleriespeople galleriesoutdoor galleriesthen and now galleriesevent galleriesseasonal galleriesall galleriessend us your photoslifelife indexfeaturesentertainmentfaithfamilycelebrationspeople galleriescomicspuzzleshoroscopeseventsoutdoorsoutdoors indexhiking guideexploreoutdoor tipsnational & state parksoutdoor gallerieshelphelp indexsubscribe today ! subscriber servicescontact usstaff listnews tipsarchivessite index news | obituaries | sports | opinion | multimedia | life | outdoors | help " this is how labor recruiters like me come in every day , " sasa says , as he strides past men sleeping on cardboard and clutching at their coats against the early winter cold .
takayoshi igarashi , a lawyer and professor at hosei university , said the initial rush to find companies for decontamination was understandable in the immediate aftermath of the disaster when the priority was emergency response .
but he said the government now needs to tighten its scrutiny to prevent a range of abuses , including bid rigging .
" we can only check on lower-tier subcontractors if they are honest with us , " said tomoyuki yamane , head of marketing for raito .
raito and obayashi were not accused of any wrongdoing and were not penalized .
" he will never be able to pay me back , " she said .
nishiyama 's first employer in sendai offered him $ 90 a day for his first job clearing tsunami debris .
but he was made to pay as much as $ 50 a day for food and lodging .
he also was not paid on the days he was unable to work .
on those days , though , he would still be charged for room and board .
he decided he was better off living on the street than going into debt .
" we 're an easy target for recruiters , " nishiyama said .
" we turn up here with all our bags , wheeling them around and we 're easy to spot .
they say to us , are you looking for work ?
are you hungry ?
and if we haven 't eaten , they offer to find us a job . "
" the huffington post " is a registered trademark of thehuffingtonpost.com , inc .
all rights reserved . congo | reliefweb congo congo : l & # 039 ; opposition dénonce une " gouvernance à la mitraillette " brazzaville , 21 décembre 2013 ( afp ) - l 'union panafricaine pour la démocratie sociale ( upads ) , première formation de l 'opposition au congo , a dénoncé samedi " une gouvernance à la mitraillette " , après les combats de lundi entre la garde d 'un officier tombé en disgrâce et l 'armée congolaise venu l 'arrêter .
les opérations de rapatriement d ’ environ 100 000 congolais refugiés à impfondo , en république du congo qui ont débuté en septembre de l ’ année en cours pour buburu , un des villages de la province de l ’ equateur se déroulent sans trop de difficulté .
une fois à buburu , le haut commissariat pour les réfugiés ( hcr ) construit des maisons d ’ habitations pour ces retournés .
ces rapatriés congolais avaient fui la guerre des enyele entre 2009 et 2010 .
congo brazzaville , ( congosite ) - le calme est revenu dans la capitale congolaise ce 17 décembre 2013 , après les changes de tirs à l ’ arme de guerre d ’ hier en mi-journée entre la force publique et les partisans de l ’ ancien secrétaire général adjoint du conseil national de sécurité , le colonel marcel tsourou qui s ’ est finalement rendu .
il est détenu à la direction générale de la surveillance du territoire ( dgst ) .
congo congo : les affrontements de lundi à brazzaville ont fait 22 morts brazzaville , 17 décembre 2013 ( afp ) - vingt-deux personnes ont été tuées dans les affrontements ayant opposé lundi à brazzaville l 'armée congolaise et la garde d 'un officier supérieur condamné par la justice , a-t-on appris mardi à l 'institut médico-légal .
" vingt-deux corps ( ... ) nous ont été ramenés du lieu des affrontements " , a indiqué à l 'afp un agent de la morgue municipale sous couvert d 'anonymat .
the security and humanitarian situation continues to be deteriorated in the country .
the number of are now an estimated 189,000 idps in bangui all new gathered in over 40 sites , with the highest central african republic + 2 others le hcr appelle à un accès humanitaire en république centrafricaine bangui , république centrafricaine , 13 décembre ( hcr ) – le hcr a déclaré vendredi que la situation humanitaire en république centrafricaine continue de se dégrader avec des dizaines de milliers de personnes qui ont été contraintes de fuir leurs maisons à cause des violences .
congo campagne de vaccination des enfants de 0 à 5 ans contre la rougeole congo brazzaville , ( congosite ) – une campagne de vaccination des enfants de 0 à 5 ans contre la rougeole sera lancée le 17 décembre prochain sur toute l ’ étendue du territoire congolais .
organisée par le programme elargi de vaccination ( pev ) , elle se déroulera jusqu ’ au 21 décembre .
selon le chef du pev , herman boris didi ngossaki , cette campagne est organisée en raison de la résurgence de la rougeole dans le pays .
plus de 900 cas décelés due à cette maladie ont été enregistrés cette année dans le pays , a-t-il indiqué .
congo quelque 279 cas de viols enregistrés en 2013 à l ’ hôpital de base de makélékélé congo brazzaville , ( congo-site.com ) - d ’ après les statistiques de l ’ unité de lutte contre les violences sexuelles de l ’ hôpital de base de makélékélé , 1er arrondissement de brazzaville , près de 279 cas de viols ont été enregistrés dans la période allant de janvier à septembre 2013 ; soit 1 cas par jour .
ces statistiques ont été révélées le 25 novembre dans la capitale congolaise par la ministre en charge de la promotion de la femme , catherine ebondza lipiti .
health care is the leading sector in the big cap 20 join ibd for this complimentary event in miami or tampa to see how leaderboard has tripled the performance of the s & p 500 in 2013 .
what is the difference between the rs line and the rs rating ?
tune in now to find out how these ratings can help your investing .
enderle group president rob enderle on the technological innovations to expect in 2014.top-rated companies : goog the wall street journal ’ s farhad manjoo and hedgeye risk management director of research daryl jones on the outlook for twitter.top-rated companies : fb " students learn the values of respect and love for others . "
the diocese of des moines catholic schools welcomes you to our website .
we invite you to explore our site , as well as visit our schools to witness the difference a catholic school can make .
click here to see a map and listing of all of the schools .
christ is the & ldquo ; principle & rdquo ; of the catholic schools in the des moines diocese.learning the catholic faith and respecting each other is reinforced every day .
how do you prepare a turkey and what are you thankful for when i was growing up in massachusetts , my dad loved to work on cars .
every time he headed out to the driveway , i was right there with him .
one weekend , when i was 10 or so , he told me we were off to fix a transmission .
" i can 't do that , " i said .
he replied without a pause , " people do it every day .
you can certainly do it once . "
that straightforward advice -- and the fact that we did fix the transmission -- stuck with me .
my year using aereo : how a dime-sized antenna met my tv needs nextlesson is a web app where teachers and parents can get access to pre-designed lesson plans or create their own .
it wasn 't created by a 20-year-old to jump on the next big trend .
it was created by a couple of dads using the ideas and techniques of high tech to solve a real problem in education .
we don 't need to sugarcoat the cure for climate change erase bad memories ?
scientists overseas show they can do it now you can savor the smell of popcorn through your phone better way to get buzzed ?
scientist says he 's found it the feds printed their own 3d gun and it literally blew up in their faces privacy policyterms of useabout uscontact usemploymentlinksventure marketing © 2013 bhg , inc . all rights reserved . breeze buy local | the valley breeze the involvement of the delamere family in the consortium that is planning to build a new shopping mall in naivasha has caused much gnashing of teeth . ( ... )
the former advisor to raila odinga when he was prime minister , miguna miguna , who ( ... )
september 30 , 2013 willemstad , curacao -- the first gay pride event in curacao has been cancelled .
the curacao government had set additional conditions in the granting of the permit for the event on the island , which was supposed to be held in downtown punda , the old town of willemstad , on saturday .
curacao clean up picks up half million kilos of trash a criminal record can be avoided by keeping the dwp informed of any change in personal circumstances , including the death of a family member who is in receipt of a pension or benefit .
failing to do so can lead to hefty overpayments that will have to be paid back , and even a prison sentence .
type the text presented in the image below .
not clear ? reload captcha archos has a lot to show at ces fudzilla- & lrm ; 3 hours ago & lrm ; archos to launch ' pebble-like ' smartwatches at ces telecompaper ( subscription ) - & lrm ; 2 hours ago & lrm ; beirut ( ap ) — it 's a happy moment , a selfie taken by a group of teenagers on a sunny day in downtown beirut .
mohammed shaar sits among his friends in a red hoodie and his dark-framed glasses . الانفجار فرق الاصحاب ... التقطوا الصورة قبل لحظات من الانفجار .. # صورة _ موجعة # ابرياء pic.twitter.com / m8jujjk0uq — abdallah jibai ( @ ajibai ) december 27 , 2013 lu graeber , an rn-pa at garrison family clinic , is retiring the end of june .
the milestone , however , will not mean the end of her service as a health care worker .
it ’ s official – there ’ s going to be a new boat dealership relocating to garrison .
something big is coming to garrison – a new business called sakakawea rv “ i was able to look up to them and to at a time and see where it led us , ” he said .
rss terms of servicelegal recreational pot industry opens in colorado | kob.com uzbekistan and consortium of investors sign an accord on aral islam karimov and nursultan nazarbayev swear allegiance to russia and ask water from it the russian prosecutor general 's office resolved to extradite the first of the so called ivanovo uzbeks заказать газель грузоперевозки почасовая . | dc limo service jump to content cockrell is & ldquo ; our style of corner , & rdquo ; pelini said thursday . & ldquo ; he can get up and press and get in people ’ s faces .
he gives you some experience .
he ’ s an older guy , a more veteran guy . & rdquo ; get involvedthe silsbee bee - legal notices on the bee all of the footage is from the area around tim hortons and vida la pita on king street west in between caroline street and hess street .
us authorities seize ten bales of cocaine in puerto rico iranian and iraqi shiites mourn during ashura ceremonies at the karbala mosque in tehran .
ashura falls on the 10th day of the islamic month of muharram .
iranian and iraqi shiite mourn during ashura ceremonies at the karbala mosque in tehran .
afghan volunteers pour milk and tea for people as shiites participate in a ashura ritual .
permanent diaconatecalled to servehave you ever had a sense that you might be called to serve god through the blessings you have received ?
maybe you have sensed a call to assist our priests in the daily work of parish ministry .
maybe you have become acutely aware of the many injustices facing god 's people in the world , and you feel a call to try to make a difference .
all christians are called to serve , but perhaps you have felt a desire to move closer to god and his church in order to serve others in a new and purposeful way .
is god calling you to be a permanent deacon ?
brasstown , n.c. ’ s famed new year ’ s eve “ possum drop ” can go forward , because of a new law that authorizes the “ drop ” ( imagine the ball drop in new york ’ s times square but with a critter in a cage ) .
a last-minute court challenge of the law by animal rights activists was rejected allowing the event to proceed as long as the possum is released into the wild afterward .
brennan cia confirmation stonewalled pending killer drone investigationby jim kouri sam northeast says he ’ s looking forward to the challenge of vice-captaincy in what he says could be ‘ a defining period ’ for the club .
zuckerberg tops list of us philanthropiststext sizepublished : wednesday , 1 jan 2014 | 6 : 04 am et newseconomyfinancehealth carereal estateretailwealthautosearningsenergymediapoliticscommentaryspecial reportsasiaeuropemarketspre-marketsu.s.asiaeuropestockscommoditiescurrenciesbondsfundsetfsinvestingfinancial advisorspersonal financecnbc explainsportfoliowatchliststock screenerfund screenertechmobilesocial mediaenterprisegamingcybersecuritysmall businessfranchisingfinancingmanagementvideolatest videodigital workshopu.s. videoasia videoeurope videoceo interviewsanalyst interviewsfull episodesclosed captioningshowswatch livecnbc u.s.cnbc asia-pacificcnbc europecnbc worldfull episodescnbcabout cnbcsite mapvideo reprintsadvertisecareershelpcontactprivacy policyterms of serviceindependent programming reportlatest news releasesrsscertain market data provided by thomson reutersdata also provided bydata is a real-time snapshot * data is delayed at least 15 minutesglobal business and financial news , stock quotes , and market data and analysis © 2014 cnbc llc . all rights reserved.a division of nbcuniversalpolice seek public ' s help in search for missing 12-year-old “ whatever we can do to support this great work , we want to do it , ” duncan said .
and for generations , students from mexico have crossed the border to go to school in columbus .
irwin , the state legislator , recalled that her son was the only one in his eighth-grade class who did not grow up in a spanish-speaking household .
“ if you know english , it opens a lot of doors , ” the legislator said .
this is kent | profile for sevenoaks chronicle | sevenoaks chronicle chronicle automobiles enter the indiana toll road in hammond , ind .
in the face of sagging gas tax revenues , many states are turning to tolls to pay for road construction and maintenance .
( ap ) cash-strapped states are scouting for ways to pay for critical road work , and increasingly , the result for motorists is the same : you ’ re going to have to pay a toll .
recipient : to be announced at the fall wccw state convention the unending rise in the dollar and interest rates is too risky for the turkish business world , hisarcıklıoğlu warned .
gold mining company koza altın a.ş. , the owner of the bugün daily and the kanal türk tv station , had its activities halted on tuesday in the çukuralan goldfield , one of the company 's five major gold mines , in a move that has been perceived as the most recent example of the government 's exploitation of inspections and red tape to put pressure on those with critical views .
" we have to protect the level in the world that turkey has reached as a country of institutions and as a state governed by the rule of law , " he said .
meth lab discovered inside fayetteville home mon dec 30 , 2013 12 : 22 pm est bond doubled for father accused of abusing infant son mon dec 30 , 2013 2 : 22 pm est duke readies to face manziel in chick-fil-a bowl mon dec 30 , 2013 8 : 22 pm est authorities respond to gas leak on hillsborough street mon dec 30 , 2013 6 : 22 pm est ’ field of lost shoes , ’ tom farrell ’ s civil war film , may premiere in richmond mon dec 30 , 2013 11 : 28 am est new businesses vaporizing cigarettes sun dec 29 , 2013 11 : 28 pm est year in politics : breaking new ground , affirming old traditions in virginia sun dec 29 , 2013 11 : 28 pm est breaking new ground , affirming old traditions in va. politics sun dec 29 , 2013 9 : 28 pm est chicken , ham products recalled due to possible listeria contamination thu oct 17 , 2013 11 : 28 am edt gm unveils natural gas-powered impala thu oct 17 , 2013 11 : 28 am edt man in custody following chesapeake barricade situation mon dec 30 , 2013 5 : 28 pm est new year ’ s closings in south hampton roads mon dec 30 , 2013 9 : 28 pm est portsmouth ’ s truxtun clamors for rec center of its own mon dec 30 , 2013 1 : 28 pm est column top 12 quotes of the year mon dec 30 , 2013 11 : 28 am est panavoir owner parks new restaurant near hickory mon dec 30 , 2013 11 : 28 am est saffron : spicy tasty mon dec 30 , 2013 01 : 28 am est defendant in roanoke pharmacy heist gets probation wed dec 18 , 2013 11 : 28 pm est wasena housing proposal hits snag wed dec 18 , 2013 11 : 28 pm est christiansburg man gets 7 and a half years for violating probation wed dec 18 , 2013 11 : 28 pm est family of girl on life support plans to sue mon dec 30 , 2013 7 : 28 pm est tebow time on tv : ex-qb picked up by espn mon dec 30 , 2013 5 : 28 pm est father leaves kids in car to gamble on video game at bar mon dec 30 , 2013 5 : 28 pm est officials search for police impersonators in va . mon dec 30 , 2013 3 : 28 pm est metro open later for new year ’ s holiday mon dec 30 , 2013 07 : 28 am est leaker bradley manning nominated for nobel prize by american groupby jim kouri although a top winter sports nation , switzerland has not hosted a winter olympics since 1948 .
after graubünden voters rejected a proposed candidature in march , a new bid to host the games in valais is in the offing – but what will it take to convince the locals ?
( photo : keystone ) ( 12 / 30 / 2013 5 : 11 : 58 am ) " como utilizar caminando por la fe : concilio vaticano ii " aqui .
united states conference of catholic bishops : department of evangelization and catechesis the poor , the church in poland , the solidarity movement , the collapse of polarization in the church , the tumultuous ’ 60s , war and peace , the vietnam traian băsescu le mulțumește românilor că au rămas o " comunitate " în ciuda dificultăților economice sau sociale din 2013 președintele traian băsescu le-a mulțumit românilor , cu prilejul anului nou , pentru felul în care au știut să rămână " o comunitate " în ciuda dificultăților economice sau sociale din anul 2013 .
retrospectivă 2013 - românia a înregistrat în 2013 o creștere economică peste așteptări și a finalizat al doilea acord cu fmi modificări ale codului fiscal care intră în vigoare începând cu 1 ianuarie 2014 igpr : peste 36 de tone de petarde și artificii , în valoare de 1,4 milioane de lei , confiscate de polițiști efe : românii și bulgarii așteaptă cu sentimente diferite deschiderea frontierelor ue zgonea i-a transmis omologului rus condoleanțe pentru victimele atentatelor de la volgograd legea care reintroduce grupa i de muncă în calculul pensiei a fost publicată în monitorul oficial padurile romaniei vor fi sustinute financiar exclusiv din taieri de masa lemnoasa curtea supremă a rusiei ordonă reexaminarea dosarelor în procesele lui hodorkovski patriarhul daniel : familia este foarte mult persecutată , astăzi , de o mentalitate consumistă navă rusească blocată în antarctica : spărgătorul de gheață chinez a eșuat în operațiunea de salvare călărași : explozie la etajul 1 al unui imobil , două persoane în stare critică președintele traian băsescu a transmis condoleanțe ca urmare a atentatului terorist din rusia anul nou : putin îl felicită pe obama și dorește întărirea relațiilor bilaterale interviu codrin scutaru : familia și drumul european al româniei sunt prioritățile ministerului muncii scandalul politico-financiar din turcia : a demisionat un nou deputat al partidului de la putere retrospective 2013 piața de artă : tonitza-cel mai bine vândut pictor ; luchian-cea mai valoroasă lucrare anre : prețul energiei electrice rămâne neschimbat de la 1 ianuarie jucătorul român marius copil s-a calificat marți în optimile de finală ale turneului atp de tenis de la brisbane ( australia ) , dotat cu premii de 452.670 dolari , după ce l-a învins la mare luptă pe japonezul ...
plenul consiliului superior al magistraturii ( csm ) se reunește în 6 ianuarie 2014 pentru a alege noul președinte și noul vicepreședinte care vor conduce instituția anul viitor .
romsilva investește anual 12 milioane de lei pentru administrarea ariilor protejate regia naționala a pădurilor ( rnp ) - romsilva investește anual în jur de 12 milioane de lei pentru administrarea ariilor protejate aflate în structura sa , însă acești bani pot fi multiplicați prin acces ...
românia trebuie să plătească 1,172 miliarde euro în 2014 către fmi , ue și bird românia trebuie să plătească în 2014 peste 1,172 miliarde euro către fondul monetar internațional ( fmi ) , uniunea europeană ( ue ) și banca internațională pentru reconstrucție și dezvoltare ( bird ) , cu 0,72 ...
anre : prețul gazelor va crește cu 1 % pentru populație și cu 2 % pentru industrie de la 1 ianuarie 2014 gazele pentru populație se vor scumpi cu 1 % de la 1 ianuarie 2014 , iar cele pentru industrie cu 2 % , acesta fiind un nou pas în procesul de liberalizare a pieței gazelor naturale , a declarat , recent , pentru ...
aproape 600.000 de români îl au ca patron spiritual pe sfântul vasile cel mare un număr de 587.327 de români , respectiv 500.146 bărbați și 87.181 femei , poartă numele sfântului ierarh vasile cel mare , potrivit statisticilor direcției pentru evidența persoanelor și administrarea bazelor ...
casca de protecție a germanului michael schumacher , victima unui grav accident de schi petrecut duminică în alpii francezi , s-a spart în două în timpul accidentului de pe pârtia stațiunii meribel , relateaz ...
retrospective 2013 - cel mai bun an din istoria bursei , după vârful din 2007 ofertele publice ale companiilor de stat au făcut ca 2013 să fie cel mai bun an din istoria bursei locale , în ultimii șase ani , după vârful atins în 2007 , înaintea crizei economice .
bet-c , indicele general ...
evacuare parțială a unui oraș din statele unite după deraierea unui tren ce transporta țiței un tren ce transporta țiței a deraiat la doar o milă / 1,6 km / înainte de a fi trecut prin inima unui mic oraș din dakota de nord / nordul sua / , speriind locuitorii cu o serie de explozii ce au ridicat fl ...
marea britanie : ginecologul care a ajutat la nașterea prințului george , onorat de regină ginecologul familiei regale , care a ajutat la nașterea prințului george , al treilea în linia de succesiune la tronul marii britanii , a fost onorat de regina elisabeta a ii-a , în lista sa tradițională de ...
atentatele din rusia : bilanțul victimelor a crescut la 33 de morți bilanțul celor două atentate de la volgograd ( sud-vestul rusiei ) a crescut la 33 de morți , au anunțat marți autorități locale , informează france presse .
diplomatul român răzvan constantinescu a fost numit consul al româniei la bristol , în timp ce marea britanie se pregătește să ridice controalele de imigrare la 1 ianuarie , informează luni the bristol post ...
israelul a eliberat în noaptea de luni spre marți 26 de deținuți palestinieni în conformitate cu angajamentele asumate pentru relansarea negocierilor de pace sub egida statelor unite , a declarat pentru ...
108 jurnaliști uciși în 2013 , siria cea mai periculoasă țară / fij / cel puțin 108 jurnaliști și profesioniști media au fost uciși în lume în 2013 , în timp ce siria a devenit cea mai periculoasă țară înaintea irakului și pakistanului , a anunțat marți federația internațional ...
doi români cu vârste de 20 și 22 de ani au fost arestați de poliția austriacă cu 37 de ceasuri de lux în mașina lor , au anunțat luni autoritățile locale , citate de agenția de presă austriacă apa , preluat ...
lupta antiteroristă : putin promite să rămână într-un cadru legal / onu / președintele rus vladimir putin i-a promis lui ban ki-moon să rămână în cadrul dreptului internațional pentru a-i descoperi pe autorii atentatelor comise la volgograd , a declarat luni purtătorul de cuv ...
volgograd / jo : sua doresc o cooperare antiteroristă mai strânsă cu moscova statele unite au declarat luni că doresc o " cooperare mai strânsă " cu moscova pentru a asigura securitatea jocurilor olimpice de iarnă de la soci / rusia / în februarie , după două atentate mortale cu bomb ...
asc corona brașov a învins pe ujpest te cu scorul de 2-1 ( 1-1 , 0-0 , 1-0 ) , luni , pe teren propriu , într-un meci din liga mol la hochei pe gheață .
atenționări de ceață pentru județele alba , arad , timiș și hunedoara , valabile până la ora 23,00 administrația națională de meteorologie a emis luni seară atenționări nowcasting cod galben de ceață pentru județele alba , arad , timiș și hunedoara , valabile până la ora 23,00 .
rdc : peste 70 de atacatori uciși în atacuri la kinshasa și lubumbashi peste 70 de atacatori au fost uciși luni în atacuri ce au vizat în principal kinshasa și lubumbashi , al doilea oraș din republica democrată congo / rdc / , potrivit luni seară unei surse oficiale , citată ...
ai filmat sau fotografiat un eveniment ieșit din comun ?
noi îți publicăm știrea .
fiți la curent cu tot ceea ce se întâmplă important în românia și în lume .
hipnoza face minuni pentru slăbit şi lăsatul de fumat .
cu acest gen de sloganuri se laudă diverse organizaţii care te îndrumă să achiziţionezi programe prestabilite în 1 , 2 , 10 paşi pentru a renunţa la ...
alin popescu - secretar general centrul de studii despre bere , sanatate si nutritie pe lângă efectul său de rehidratare datorat conţinutului mare de apă , în proporţie de 93 % , berea fără alcool furnizează organismului şi substanţe nutritive atât de folositoare : vitamine , sodiu , potasiu ...
cristian socol - consilier personal al primului-ministru pe probleme macroeconomice la sfârşit de decembrie se trage linia peste anul curent .
din punct de vedere macroeconomic anul 2013 a fost un an bun .
putem spune că a fost anul recordurilor .
cariere pentru românia ioana călin ( designer ) : avem oameni talentați în țară , nu trebuie să cumpărăm neapărat de la branduri străine ( interviu ) sătmăreanca ioana călin este , în prezent , printre cele mai bine cotate tinere creatoare de modă românce în capitala italiei , pasiunea descoperind-o în copilărie când făcea îmbrăcăminte pentru păpușile ...
cariere pentru românia lucian mircescu : sportul are un potențial uriaș de a fi folosit ca un foarte eficace medicament social ( interviu ) lucian mircescu , în vârstă de 28 de ani , a readus la viață , pornind practic de la zero , sportul cu balonul oval în județul prahova , în ciuda faptului că el nu este un practicant de rugby .
dorind să îmbine ...
cariere pentru românia ion neculai ( ikedoo ) : vrem să scoatem peste granițe și un proiect legat de educație ( interviu ) ikedoo institute este un centru fondat de un arhitect ( ion neculai ) și de către un director de firmă de dezvoltare imobiliară ( vlad andrei ) care încearcă să demonstreze , prin cursuri care implică experimentarea ...
drapelul uniunii europene a fost înălţat la palatul victoria , alături de cel al româniei , în prezenţa preşedintelui traian băsescu şi a preşedintelui parlamentului european , josep borell .
a murit compozitorul şi folcloristul sabin v. drăgoi , membru corespondent al academiei române ( 2 iul .
1955 ) ( n .
6 iun .
1894 ) .
s-a născut actorul englez anthony hopkins , laureat al premiul oscar pentru filmul ' tacerea mieilor ' .
marie curie , fiziciană franceză de origine poloneză , a primit premiului nobel pentru chimie pentru eforturile depuse în munca de cercetare a radioactivităţii elementelor . ( n .
1867- m .
1934 ) a murit marele povestitor clasic al literaturii române ion creangă , membru post-mortem al academiei române ( 28 oct .
1948 ) . ( n .
10 iun.1839 / 1 mart.1837 , ambele date fiind menţionate de istoricii literari ) s-a născut poetul şi prozatorul iacob negruzzi , membru titular şi vicepreşedinte , preşedinte şi secretar general al academiei române . ( m .
6 ian .
1932 ) s-a născut navigatorul francez jacques cartier , care în perioda 1534-1542 a întreprins trei călătorii spre canada . ( m .
1557 ) există actori care se identifică , în timp , cu personajele interpretate sau cu replici celebre din filmele în care au jucat .
una dintre cele mai cunoscute replici din filmul românesc este din " cu mâinile ...
retrospective 2013 - anul protestelor față de explorarea gazelor de șist în județul vaslui sălaj : filiala județeană a udmr a strâns peste 13.500 de semnături pentru referendumul privind regionalizarea caraș-severin : sorin frunzăverde ar putea candida pentru funcția de șef al viitoarei regiuni vest conținutul acestui site este proprietatea agenției naționale de presă agerpres .
este interzisă republicarea sau redistribuirea conținutului fără menționarea sursei . jump to content gail newstead , from bicester with her new biker jacket and trousers won as part of the 12 dreams of christmas competition run by bennetts biking dreams a keen motorcyclist from bicester bagged her ultimate biking dream as part of a nationwide christmas campaign run by bennetts motorcycle insurance .
haga clic aquí para leer el documento de obispo etienne en español una declaración pastoral a los fieles de wyoming sobre matrimonio y familia una enseñanza sobre la dignidad y santidad del matrimonio de vaticano ii más instrucciones sobre la naturaleza y la belleza de la familia y el matrimonio london — chelsea manager jose mourinho has accused liverpool ’ s luis suarez of showing his “ wild ” side and diving as though he had been “ shot in the back ” to try to win a late penalty in their premier league clash on sunday .
uruguayan president josé mujica has a well-earned reputation for a personal style that is assertively ... let us call it informal .
it 's part of the 78-year-old politician 's practice of eschewing all trappings of power and status ; he gives away & # 8230 ; iran will " weather the storm , " foreign minister ali akbar salehi said thursday , adding that he was " not concerned at all " about the imminent ban on its oil by the eu .
the economic minister , shamseddin hosseini , likened the ban to " an economic war . "
he said widespread disarray in the state at the time of the probe — around mid-february — or the wish to protect their own may have been behind the lack of cooperation .
the hearings resumed on thursday for the third and final day of the prosecution 's opening statement .
" if there 's no security , there will be no law , no development and no elections , " he said .
" people are taking the law into their own hands . "
but he too , had conditions for handing over weapons and advising his men to join the national army .
ain-al-yaqeen | about us | archive ain al yaqeen pattaya bike week 2009 feb buffet breakfast for 110 baht all you can eat and i mean it and also buffet dinner all you can eat for 180 rd ) near soi town in town .
this is the foodmarket of pattaya where you can have popular with expats and those who want to buy their groceries then sit down for just hit " lets ride " & see more pattaya bike week pics [ bang saen bike week 2008 ] [ chiangmai bike week dec 2008 ] [ pattaya useful tel numbers ] [ pattaya best restaurants & eating ] [ pattaya bars ] [ pattaya jet ski hire ] [ pattaya hire cars / bikes ] [ pattaya car / motorcycle reg office ] [ fishing news ] [ check out bang saen ] obama now a religion ?
the cult of obamaby j.d. longstreet what the heck is an assault rifle , anyway ? by j.d. longstreet montana man accused of water-boarding his two sonsby montana news the end of the world did not come about like the myan calender indicated : good morning worldby montana news see stateline infographic : how many jobs did your state create ?
new york expanded its film tax credit to include live television shows , dubbed the “ jimmy fallon tax credit , ” to attract the new host of nbc ’ s “ the tonight show ” to relocate from california to the big apple .
maryland tripled the value of its film tax credit after it lured hbo ’ s “ veep ” and netflix ’ s “ house of cards ” to the state .
worried that colorado was giving too many tax breaks to big oil and gas companies , lawmakers there overhauled the state 's " enterprise zone " program .
the new law caps the amount of income tax credits that can go to large corporations " who certainly don ’ t need the tax credit , " said house majority leader dickey lee hullinghorst , a democrat .
part of the money saved by changing the tax credit program will be used as seed money for emerging bioscience industries .
contact usaerial views of goodland van gogh painting see goodland kiosk program dünya onlinefinans haberlerihisse senetleritahvil / bonodövizparitelervobdış piyasalar69.100-3,242,07801,662,84000,981.192-2,1217 : 01 new york borsası yükselişle açıldı10 : 20 avrupa borsaları sınırlı yükselişle açıldı10 : 19 asya borsaları yükseldi09 : 17 vi̇op 'ta endeks kontratı güne yatay başladı09 : 05 dolar 2,1250 liradan , euro 2,9290 liradan güne başladıfinanshisse senetleri yüzde 13.31 değer kaybettiborsa i̇stanbul 'da işlem gören hisse senetleri geçen yıl yüzde 13,31 oranında değer kaybettidarphane 'den tüm zamanların üretim rekoru2013 yılında ağırlığı 98,8 tonu geçen 27,7 milyondan fazla altın üreten darphane , tüm zamanların üretim rekorunu kırdıyatırımcıyı ulaştırma sevindirdi , futbol kulüpleri üzdü2013 yılında borsa i̇stanbul , yüzde 13,31 oranında değer kaybederken , sektörel endeksler bazında bakıldığında 5 sektör endeksi yatırımcısının yüzünü güldürdükısa vadede altından uzak durunyaşar üniversitesi i̇ktisadi ve i̇dari bilimler fakültesi ekonomi bölümü başkanı doç .
dr. umut halaç , yatırımcıların , kısa vadede , dövize yatırım yapmaya devam edebileceklerini , ancak altından uzak durmaları gerektiğini kaydetti.borsa yılı 67.801 puandan tamamladıborsa yılın son işlem gününde yüzde 0.27 değer kaybetti ; siyasi endişelerin sürmesi ve lokal kurumsal taleple dolar / tl yükseldibist ile nasdaq ortak olduborsa i̇stanbul ile nasdaq omx iş birliğine ilişkin anlaşma genel kurul 'da oy birliğiyle kabul edildi .
anlaşma kapsamında nasdaq omx , borsa i̇stanbul 'dan yüzde 5 hisse alacaktl 2013'te değer kaybettidolar / tl yılı 2.10 seviyesinin üzerinde , gösterge faiz ise çift hanede tamamladıhazine ocakta 5 ihale ile borçlanacakhazine ocakta 5 , şubat ve martta 6 ihale ile borçlanacakborsa 2. seansa düşüşle başladıborsa ikinci seansa ilk kapanışa göre yüzde 0,55 düşük girdiborsa kâr satışıyla hafif gevşedidünkü yüzde 6'lık yükselişin ardından yılın son işlem gününe de alıcılı başlayan borsa yeniden eksiye geçtiborsa i̇stanbul , pozitif bölgedeendeks güne yüzde 0,33 yükselişle başladı , dolar sakinpiyasalar yılı pozitif kapatmaya hazırlanıyorküresel piyasalar yılı kapanışını yıl boyunca seyrettiği yükseliş trendiyle kapatmaya hazırlanıyortaksit sınırı şubatta başlıyortaksit sınırlamasına telekomünikasyon ve kuyumla ilgili harcamalar da girdi .
cep telefonu telekomünikasyon kapsamı dışında yer alırken , kontör satışları bu kapsama giriyor . bddk 'nın konuya açıklık getirebilmek için yeni bir çalışma yaptığı bildiriliyorborsada yüzde 6.4 yükselişsiyasi tansiyonu artırıcı gelişme olmamasıyla düşüş eğiliminde olan dolar / tl 2.1210'a kadar geriledi .
borsa yüzde 6.4 primle gün içi en yüksek seviyeden kapandıkuveyt türk sendikasyon kredisi aldıkuveyt türk , iki ayrı dilimden oluşan 275 milyon dolar ve 83 milyon euro sendikasyon kredisi aldı12345678sonraki sayfa dünya onlinedünya grubu hakkındaonline künyedünya gazetesi künyesiabonelikalışverişrssreklami̇letişimdiğer sitelerimizkobiden.comdunyastore.compcworld.com.trcomputerworld.com.trbyte.com.trdunyagida.com.trdunyainsaat.com.trdünya ekonomi tvburada yer alan yatırım bilgi , yorum ve tavsiyeler yatırım danışmanlığı kapsamında değildir .
yatırım danışmanlığı hizmeti , aracı kurumlar , portföy yönetim şirketleri , mevduat kabul etmeyen bankalar ile müşteri arasında imzalanacak yatırım danışmanlığı sözleşmesi çerçevesinde sunulmaktadır .
burada yer alan yorum ve tavsiyeler , yorum ve tavsiyede bulunanların kişisel görüşlerine dayanmaktadır .
bu görüşler mali durumunuz ile risk getiri tercihlerinize uygun olmayabilir .
bu nedenle , sadece burada yer alan bilgilere dayanılarak yatırım kararı verilmesi beklentilerinize uygun sonuçlar doğurmayabilir.bist isim ve logosu " koruma marka belgesi " altında korunmakta olup izinsiz kullanılamaz , iktibas edilemez , değiştirilemez .
bist ismi altında açıklanan tüm bilgilerin telif hakları tamamen bist 'ye ait olup , tekrar yayınlanamaz .
tüm finansal veriler matriks aracılığıyla sağlanmaktadır .
veriler 15 dakika gecikmelidir .
iowa news headlines - newsbystate.com year in review : prison dedicated with praise , but not all positive at isp mon dec 30 , 2013 10 : 13 am est can you imagine that ?
toy store is closing mon dec 30 , 2013 06 : 13 am est new year ’ s day closings mon dec 30 , 2013 06 : 13 am est offering a helping hand to the homeless mon dec 30 , 2013 06 : 13 am est prison dedicated with praise , but not all positive at isp mon dec 30 , 2013 06 : 13 am est two iowans headed for outback bowl killed in crash mon dec 30 , 2013 6 : 13 pm est new state law changes affect drivers , taxpayers mon dec 30 , 2013 6 : 13 pm est hawkeyes hit the beach mon dec 30 , 2013 10 : 13 pm est donations pour in to help dog get prosthetic paw mon dec 30 , 2013 6 : 13 pm est hawkeye fans headed to outback bowl die in crash mon dec 30 , 2013 4 : 13 pm est biz buzz : what ’ s next for former ’ apprentice ’ star tana goertz ?
mon dec 30 , 2013 10 : 13 pm est hearing for inmate granted resentencing by iowa supreme court to be rescheduled mon dec 30 , 2013 8 : 13 pm est developer of proposed west des moines sports complex applying for creation of a reinvestment district mon dec 30 , 2013 8 : 13 pm est burglars break-in : veterans home ransacked mon dec 30 , 2013 8 : 13 pm est hancock county police dog retires at age 10 mon dec 30 , 2013 8 : 13 pm est waukee standoff ends with man ’ s death mon dec 30 , 2013 6 : 13 pm est c.r. ’ bird lover ’ faces city nuisance complaints mon dec 30 , 2013 4 : 13 pm est police : man ’ bilked ’ elderly resident out of thousands of dollars of exorbitant yardwork fees mon dec 30 , 2013 4 : 13 pm est police : man who ’ bilked ’ elderly resident out of thousands of dollars of exorbitant yardwork fees mon dec 30 , 2013 2 : 13 pm est press-citizen person of the year : rod lehnertz mon dec 30 , 2013 12 : 13 pm est mnsure deadline looms mon dec 30 , 2013 10 : 13 pm est planning for tax season mon dec 30 , 2013 8 : 13 pm est fitness friday : new year ’ s resolutions mon dec 30 , 2013 10 : 13 am est explosion reported in albert lea mon dec 30 , 2013 10 : 13 am est bowling for blake mon dec 30 , 2013 12 : 13 am est out and about in the cold sun dec 29 , 2013 8 : 13 pm est end of the year sales and car shopping sat dec 28 , 2013 10 : 13 pm est siouxlanders hope for health , happiness -- and maybe a jackpot -- in 2014 mon dec 30 , 2013 12 : 13 am est weather : a warmer monday and snow on new year ’ s day expected sun dec 29 , 2013 6 : 13 pm est renaissance exhibition at musée du luxembourg in paris the stuff of dreams newseconomyfinancehealth carereal estateretailwealthautosearningsenergymediapoliticscommentaryspecial reportsasiaeuropemarketspre-marketsu.s.asiaeuropestockscommoditiescurrenciesbondsfundsetfsinvestingfinancial advisorspersonal financecnbc explainsportfoliowatchliststock screenerfund screenertechmobilesocial mediaenterprisegamingcybersecuritysmall businessfranchisingfinancingmanagementvideolatest videodigital workshopu.s. videoasia videoeurope videoceo interviewsanalyst interviewsfull episodesclosed captioningshowswatch livecnbc u.s.cnbc asia-pacificcnbc europecnbc worldfull episodescnbcabout cnbcsite mapvideo reprintsadvertisecareershelpcontactprivacy policyterms of serviceindependent programming reportlatest news releasesrsscertain market data provided by thomson reutersdata also provided bydata is a real-time snapshot * data is delayed at least 15 minutesglobal business and financial news , stock quotes , and market data and analysis © 2014 cnbc llc . all rights reserved.a division of nbcuniversalshipping options book reviews | economist - world news , politics , economics , business & finance omaha police say a domestic dispute between a man and his girlfriend turned violent saturday night at the car dealership they own at 61st and l street .
say what ? i just do not understand how the government in all its wisdom is able to justify sending 27 million pounds in overseas aid to china and & # 8230 ; a major argument has broken out in westminster after the cabinet , labour frontbenchers and lib dem ministers decided to reject plans by an independent watchdog to raise & # 8230 ; temperatures in october will be 1 to 2 ° c above the long-term averages in khatlon province , at lower elevations of drd and in sughd province .
precipitation is expected to be above the norm in all the regions of the country. majority of calories to households in tajikistan while cooking oil urban population and is the primary market for importers and for distribution to the entire country .
khujand is a major city in the parts of the fergana valley in uzbekistan .
kurgan-tyube is a major market the south of the country and is a key market for in the abdurahmanov family ’ s flat on the 4th floor of this apartment block in kurgan-tube , simply turning the water tap is a pleasure . out comes clean , drinkable water .
muhammadjon abdurahmanov lives here with his parents , and he likes the change .
“ the problem with the water is over .
now i can wash my hands , take a shower , get on with my life faster , ” he says . © 2014 diocese of des moines , 601 grand ave , des moines , ia 50309 • 515.243.7653 • homeanalysisglobal issuesafrica [ ips ] lusaka -it is seven in the morning and georgina musende , 56 , of kamanga township , which just lies east of the zambian capital lusaka , is already sweating as she digs into the dry earth .
every time the hoe hits the ground , the dust engulfs her . ( 12 / 29 / 2013 2 : 57 : 58 pm ) amira nature foods ltd to participate in the 16th annual icr xchange conference it ’ s the winter that keeps on giving and giving , or in mclean county ’ s case , it ’ s become a case of taking and taking and taking as the county ’ s “ the bill in the legislature did give the commissioner ( david bernhardt ) the purview to raise the limits , ” ted talbot said .
“ if he saw fit , he could conduct the traffic study , and upon the results of that , he would decide if it ’ s prudent . ”
i live in canada and i want to contribute .
will i be charged in canadian or u.s. funds ?
i am a current member .
why did i receive a letter asking for an additional contribution ?
am i a member of television , radio , or both ?
how do i know which one ?
is it possible for my contribution to be matched by my company ?
please click on one of the links ( radio or tv ) at the top of this page to become a member using our secure online pledge forms .
you also may become a member by contacting our membership department at 800-359-6900 , or by mailing your contribution to one of the addresses below : your financial support is sincerely appreciated , and in return , we will strive to give you quality television and radio programming that educates , involves , and inspires you .
please do not hesitate to call us at 800-359-6900 if we can be of assistance .
if you ’ ve contributed an amount that qualifies you for a gift in the past year and you didn ’ t receive a gift then , you may request a gift .
please call our membership office at 800-359-6900 for information .
una vez más , el congreso esta considerando la reforma del sistema de inmigración de nuestro país ya que está considerado no efectivo .
muchos inmigrantes han tenido que dejar sus casas y sus países para poder proveer con las necesidades más básicas para sus familias .
la desesperación de su situación no corresponde con la espera excesiva de tiempo ( a veces más de 15 años ) para poder procesar una solicitud de visa .
creemos que los que ya están aquí , por el bien de la unidad familiar y por humanidad , deben recibir una consideración especial que pueda incluir una opción para la ciudadanía .
apoyamos las medidas que ayudan a proteger la seguridad de nuestra frontera , siempre y cuando se respeten los derechos humanos y la vida humana .
necesitamos un sistema que sea humano para los trabajadores y justo para los empleadores .
mientras que los católicos estén en desacuerdo con los límites de la justicia sobre el enfoque específico de reformar el sistema migratorio , debemos estar de acuerdo como pueblo de fe para vivir el mandamiento que se nos da en las escrituras de & ldquo ; acoger al extranjero & rdquo ; y defender la dignidad humana que dios nos ha dado .
les pedimos a todos los residentes de iowa que recuerden su historia como inmigrantes conforme vayamos trabajando juntos por una solución justa y compasiva a este problema .
animamos a los miembros de la comunidad católica a contactar a sus representantes del congreso en este mes , especialmente a la cámara de representantes para que apoyen la legislación para una reforma migratoria coherente con los principios de justicia .
una manera fácil de hacerlo es visitar la página www.justiceforimmigrants.org y enviar un mensaje a su representante en el congreso para animarle a apoyar el proceso .
if you agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement , you should check the box indicating your agreement to the terms of this agreement on the registration page for the service .
if you do not agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement , you should not check the box but you will not be able to proceed with the registration process for the respective service and become a subscriber .
to the extent you have access to , or are using , a service without having completed our registration process , you are hereby notified that your continued use of a service is subject to many of the terms and conditions of this agreement as explained in section 5 below .
other subscribers and users .
if your access to a service is provided by , or through a third party , or if you have paid for access to the service in connection with your subscription to one of our print publications , or purchased your subscription to the service through a retailer rather than from us directly , some or all of the " fees and payments " and " renewal " terms may not apply to you .
please contact the third party , retailer or our customer service department for details .
if you access a service as part of an " open house " free trial or otherwise without becoming a subscriber , you are hereby notified that all of the terms and conditions of this subscriber agreement except the section labeled " fees and payments " and " renewal " apply to your use and access of the service .
what ’ s next in health reform ?
mon dec 30 , 2013 10 : 14 pm est lifes a botch : equating ups holiday woes with obamacare mon dec 30 , 2013 4 : 14 pm est diaper fairy spreads her wings in the highlands mon dec 30 , 2013 12 : 14 pm est louisville homicides for 2013 approach 10-year low mon dec 30 , 2013 6 : 14 pm est new year ’ s closings in kentucky mon dec 30 , 2013 6 : 14 pm est genzyme ms drug fails to get us approval for use mon dec 30 , 2013 4 : 14 pm est new years day closings in kentucky mon dec 30 , 2013 12 : 14 pm est donation will pay for new tree plantings mon dec 30 , 2013 8 : 14 pm est laconia man charged with manufacturing meth mon dec 30 , 2013 2 : 14 pm est hundreds roll up sleeves for donorama sat dec 28 , 2013 02 : 14 am est how to get rid of your live christmas tree thu dec 26 , 2013 8 : 14 pm est terms of service mon dec 26 , 2011 10 : 56 am est celebrate new year ’ s eve at a louisville hotel mon dec 30 , 2013 6 : 14 pm est lmpd , ksp talk new year ’ s eve traffic plans mon dec 30 , 2013 6 : 14 pm est uofl dismisses chane behanan from basketball team mon dec 30 , 2013 2 : 14 pm est sullivan university to host new year ’ s day brunch mon dec 30 , 2013 2 : 14 pm est man hit on dixie hwy while whas11 reporter was live on the scene mon dec 30 , 2013 2 : 14 pm est police to step up patrols on new years eve mon dec 30 , 2013 4 : 14 pm est police : man shot other man in leg while at mothers house mon dec 30 , 2013 4 : 14 pm est deliveryservice and you 'll be saving money on the usual cover by signing up you immediately saveon the cover prices plus telephone a member of the km direct team to find out which is best top storiesnews near youindiaworldbusinesstechnologyentertainmentsportssciencehealthmore top storiesspotlighttop storiesnews near youindiaworldbusinesstechnologyentertainmentsportssciencehealthmore top storiesspotlightsydneythe hindusee realtime coverageworld lights up 2014 from sydney to new yorkthe hindu- & lrm ; 7 hours ago & lrm ; fireworks lit up the new year from sydney to new york as the world welcomed 2014 .
there were records to be broken and new traditions to be launched.related new year 's eve new year 's eve extravaganza in sydney was a head trip for artist reg mombassasydney morning heraldviolence mars sydney 's nyethe australiansee all 810 sourcesrelated new year 's eve caroline wozniacki , rory mcilroy engaged on sydney new year 's evesydney morning heraldmcilroy proposes to wozniacki in sydneyninemsnsee all 236 sourcesrelated rory mcilroy the militia ’ s numbers were down , but it advanced on a provincial capital .
denis sassou nguesso has tasked his ' super-minister ' jean-jacques bouya with wooing the russians . ( ... )
the president of congo-b was not so concerned by the new disclosures about his personal assets , such as jewellery and clothes , as by the fact that france has put new energy into investigating the brazzaville beach massacre . ( ... )
a dispute has broken out over exploration permits for iron ore at okanabora and ( ... )
“ currently the governor and the superintendent have a political agenda , ” she says , “ and the students in indiana are caught in the middle . ”
kova : no fireworks during new year festival na queenter mawinda help does come from the skies sometimes , but not in the form of a caped superhero .
wbi energy plans 400-mile stretch for natural gas in nd [ bang saen bike week 2008 ] [ chiangmai bike week dec 2008 ] [ pattaya useful tel numbers ] [ pattaya digital film ] [ pattaya english breakfasts ] [ pattaya best food ] [ pattaya tesco , big c ] [ pattaya beach ] [ pattaya tourist handy tips ] [ pattaya beach road ] [ pattaya best restaurants ] [ pattaya buffet dinners ] [ pattaya tesco , big c ] [ pattaya beach ] [ pattaya tourist handy tips ] [ pattaya beach road ] [ pattaya best restaurants ] [ pattaya bars ] [ pattaya jet ski hire ] [ pattaya hire cars / bikes ] [ pattaya driving license ] [ pattaya car hire ] [ pattaya motorcycle hire ] [ pattaya pickups & loads ] [ pattaya car / motorcycle reg office ] [ pattaya police & foreign volunteers ] [ pattaya scams ] [ pattaya property scams ] [ buying cars in thailand ] [ buying motorcycles in thailand ] [ pattaya bike week 2009 ] [ bang saen bike week 2008 ] [ fishing news ] [ check out bang saen ] [ more bang saen pics ] [ cambodia fishing tours ] [ sihanoukville for tourists , the katabi spirit is known to exist near lake katavi in a twin pair of tamarindus indica trees and his wife wamweru stays far from him on the other side of the lake in the hills called wamweru .
the scenic spots include hot springs at majimoto outside the park , waterfalls at ndido , chorangwa and lukima and beautiful views from the top of the escarpment down into the rukwa valley such as the view of the steep mlele escarpment close to mpunga mbuga .
according to maffa , one would see large herds of animals at magogo pools , lake katavi , ilyandi sandridge , katisunga mbuga and kasima springs , lake chada and hippo schools at ikuu springs , ikuu bridge and sitalike .
crocodiles are found in large numbers in the katuma riverbed and at the ikuu bridge in caves as well as in kapapa river , rungwa river and ndido falls .
the road from tunduma , mbeya via sumbawanga via the park to mpanda town is being upgraded .
so , tourists can come from any part of the country be it arusha , mbeya , mwanza or dar es salaam . & ldquo ; with mpanda becoming the headquarters of the new katavi region , it is expanding fast in terms of infrastructure networks ; we have a big airport and hotels for accommodating tourists from all walks of life .
we are thankful for our energy resources , our tourism , our agriculture , our natural treasures , our businesses , and our greatest strength – our citizens .
before i get farther along , i ’ d like to recognize some of our remarkable citizens today .
so where do we go ?
the federal government has recently committed to flexibility but is still trying to put together the many needed rules .
i suggest we work now and over the next year preparing .
we should continue to seek answers and we should look at the set of conditions we would need to accept an exchange and an expansion package .
let ’ s decide what we want and make the pitch to the federal government .
in other words , let us try within the law that is upon us to find the best deal , the best fit for wyoming .
to do nothing puts the full brunt of the aca upon us – everything is dictated by the federal government – without an opportunity to tailor the law to our needs .
director forslund is prepared to offer options .
this body has the opportunity to develop what it would like to see as we make our request .
perhaps the federal government will not agree to our terms .
we ’ ve subsidized out-of-state drivers long enough for the privilege of driving on our roads .
it is a conservative principle to pay as you go rather than using savings to pay for an ongoing expense .
it is a conservative principle to pay as we go rather than create a debt for others to fix .
that is what congress has been doing creating a debt for our kids and grandkids to pay .
not properly maintaining and funding our highways today is the same concept , we are creating a debt for those who come after us to pay .
we need a long-term funding source for roads .
our state ’ s future literally depends on it because today ’ s students are tomorrow ’ s citizens , workers , and leaders .
parents and teachers do not care about who is to blame – they care about results .
if we want accountability , we have to be accountable .
we want our paper ’ s headlines to speak of results , of innovation in education rather than name calling and blame or that our schools are getting an “ f ” grade .
it is up to us to do the work to get the headlines we seek – the headline that wyoming is progressing toward excellence in education .
good morning to the members of the sixtieth legislature , special acknowledgment to mr. president , mr. speaker , also to the chief justice and the members of the wyoming judiciary , but mo is that the truth about the albuquerque police department ?
the leader of the police officers ’ union says it is , but the city ’ s mayor and top officers in the department say it ’ s not so .
union president stephanie lopez blames most of the staffing problem on retirement , and the mayor and top brass agree it ’ s a challenge – but they say it ’ s a challenge apd can meet .
jenna healey , a second-year life sciences student , also remarked on how busy the day was .
“ there was a ton of clubs .
we tried to see all of them , ” she said .
in other ways , though , size was a limiting factor .
“ there are fewer people to volunteer for events , fewer people to volunteer for bake sales , and if people ’ s schedules conflict that ’ s more of an issue , ” mckinnon continued .
this year , she has worked to increase membership , and boh is now up to 30 members .
“ finding money — that ’ s the hardest part , ” said katarina polletto , the president of the new mcmaster alliance for body peace , when asked about the challenges of starting a new club .
“ especially as a new club , we know we ’ re not getting any money .
we requested , i think , $ 600 , but that ’ s not going to cover anything .
and we ’ re not going to get it , i know we ’ re not . ”
clubs are also able to fundraise on campus , but even this is made difficult by the amount of competition .
bake sales in musc , for example , are an efficient way to raise money , but space in the atrium is limited .
similarly , mckinnon is looking forward to utilizing the increased funding available to boh as a club in its second year .
“ i want to bring [ bracelet of hope ’ s founder ] dr. anne-marie back .
she ’ s really good . ”
meanwhile , liu will try to keep af ’ s momentum going .
“ i think you just got to do what you got to do .
be friendly , ” he said , when asked how to get noticed on campus .
“ [ our members ] get their friends involved , and it ’ s just a snowball effect . ”
alliance for body peaceasian f.o.c.u.s.bracelet of hopeclubsgolden zmcmaster students union but in the quantum world , it turns out that particles like electrons are actually spinning in all directions at the same time , one of the weird aspects of quantum mechanics . we may measure , by doing a measurement of an electron , find it 's spinning this way . but before we did the measurement , it was spinning this way and this way and that way and that way all at the same time . sounds crazy , but true .
we are fast-approaching an era of cognitive systems .
this new era is not an incremental change .
it signifies a fundamental shift in how machines interact wit ...
confused about the term " cloud computing " ?
want to be " with the times " when you talk about new technology buzzwords ?
this video boils down a section of cloud ...
quantum computing , the story of a wild idea : andris ambainis at tedxriga 2013 how to get the most out of your photos with your computer now , how to get the best possible picture ? more photos .... ( size : 0.3kb ) caverly is a member of the faculty at villanova university in the department of electrical and computer engineering and is a full professor . & # 160 ; & # 160 ; & # 160 ; .
from 1983-1997 , he was a member of the faculty at the university of massachusetts dartmouth in the department of electrical and computer engineering .... ( size : 4.6kb ) the term " computing " has sometimes been narrowly defined , as in a 1989 acm report on computing as a discipline : " her exhibitions reveal a talent for interpretation through the lens of art and history , " it states .
why did the schools close ?
“ there was a perception that we had conquered dental disease , ” valachovic said .
“ kids weren ’ t getting cavities anymore so we thought we wouldn ’ t need as many dentists . ”
dental health did improve , he said , but not for the poor and those without insurance . analizele politice clasice pornesc de la sondajele de opinie , adaugă ceva informații din interior și produc o prognoză mai mult sau mai puțin valabilă , mai mult sau mai puțin influențată de simpatiile analistului .
de data asta , vă propun ceva diferit .
o analiză a intereselor stakeholders ( sună cam aiurea interesele părților interesate , așa că prefer termenul în engleză ) și , în ...
crin antonescu a dat de pământ cu partidul conservator după ce , anterior , la consiliul național , președintele fondator , dan voiculescu , i-a acuzat pe liberali , adică pe președintele acestora , fiindcă numai el poate fi luat în discuție ca lider și strateg al partidului , de comportament imoral , jignitor , și cel mai grav , de ocheade către traian băsescu .
în politică , la fel ca în economie , situația rămâne neschimbată .
usl este în continuare la 60 % , pd nu depășește 20 , firimiturile dreptei nu reușesc să devină relevante , deși se agită .
cu o putere contestată în stradă la un nivel care nu a mai fost înregistrat în trecutul recent , te-ai fi așteptat ca opoziția să puncteze și să înceapă să crească .
nu se întâmplă așa , ...
avem alegeri europene în jumatate de an şi ar trebui sã dezbatem mai mult ce presupun aceste alegeri , pentru a le întelege mai bine şi a vota in cunoştiinţã de cauzã .
discutând recent în ţarã cu studenţii pe acest subiect , am constatat cã nu existã o informaţie practicã despre aceast important proces electoral .
cineva chiar avansa idea cã este de fapt o înţelegere tacitã a unor ...
“ racordarea macrosistemelor ” & # 8211 ; acesta este mesajul convenabil când încercăm să explicăm pe înţelesul cetăţenilor construcţia europeană .
şi cum să nu fie aşa , când doar la bruxelles 100.000 de oameni se află în capitala belgiei fiindcă bruxelles-ul este şi “ capitala de facto a europei ” .
specificul bruxelles-ului constă în conglomeratul instituţiilor europene şi a ...
românia – china : de la o agendă de bune intenţii la rezultate concrete ?
la început de miez de vară , agenda premierului româniei , victor ponta , a inclus un turneu asiatic , în cursul căruia a avut numeroase întâlniri bilaterale printre care cele mai semnificative fiind cele cu omologul său chinez & # 8211 ; li keqiang , cu şeful guvernului din hong kong & # 8211 ; leung chun-ying şi chiar cu noul preşedinte al chinei , xi jinping .
ecuaţia puterii a fost întotdeauna una foarte complicată în românia .
s-ar putea spune , pe bună dreptate , că am început cu stângul .
teroarea comunistă a dus , conform principiului acţiunii şi reacţiunii din fizică , la o destindere a resorturilor democratice care a produs jdemii de mişcări politice şi haos .
pe de altă parte , după 45 de ani de educaţie privind socialismul multilateral ...
usl îşi vede visul cu ochii .
ceilalţi luptă pentru a căpăta statutul de partide stabilitatea politico-socială .
o sintagmă care a devenit o obsesie naţională .
în condiţiile în care marea majoritate a românilor se consideră jignită de presupunerea că nu s-ar pricepe la politică , iar o altă parte rosteşte cu emfază , sentenţios , „ nu mă pricep , nu mă interesează ” , stabilitatea politico-socială străbate ca un coşmar somnul care a cuprins civismul românesc ....
usl , teatrul disensiunilor .
despre cei obligaţi să susţină unitatea puterii am avut impresia că lucrările comisiei parlamentare pentru modificarea constituţiei vor fi un fel de simpozion ştiinţific pe detalii tehnice , ştiţi dumneavoastră , ceva în genul echipei de instalatori care vin şi fac să nu-ţi mai curgă robinetul .
nu înţelegi prea bine ce meşteresc acolo , dar în final e ok , îţi convine .
mă bucur că nu e aşa , că m-am înşelat .
s-a încheiat , previzibil , și congresul pd-l , care a consfințit despărțirea de traian băsescu .
ca un copil , acesta s-a ofticat și și-a luat jucăriile certându-i pe cei care n-au mai vrut să se joace cu el .
dintr-o dată , pd-l nu mai era un partid democrat , ci tributar fesenismului .
cât l-a servit cu credință fusese bun .
până la urmă , este și asta o formă de recunoaștere a eșecului ... © 2013 cadran politic · rss · designed by theme junkie · powered by wordpress pakistan : no more " business as usual " with united states - ferghana information agency , moscow for the first time in his life he is excited top headlines in of the day may 23 , 2013by montana news sunday the billings police place in hand cuffs a woman on the southside of billingsby montana news hundereds of criminal aliens released by obama 's dhs : new datatby jim kouri dying man 's blinks lead to the conviction of his assailantby montana news to contact montana news associationclassified – december 25 , 2013 on the bee welcome to pastoral ministries .
please know that we are here to serve you and want to help you in any way we can .
beyoncé has responded to criticism over her use of an audio sample from the 1986 space shuttle challenger disaster by saying she intended to " help heal " the families of the astronauts who died .
video : beyoncé surprises shoppers in walmart .
the singer ...
beyonce is causing all kinds of trouble this week .
just hours after she was forced to apologise for the use of audio from the challenger diasaster in 1986 in her new track xo , the singer has incited more controversy with an instagram snap , posted on monday . © 2010 cadran politic · rss · designed by theme junkie · powered by wordpress tuesday dec 31 , 2013 he called on groups which had not submitted names for the constituent assembly to immediately do so for further approval .
online abonelike-gazetehoşgeldi̇n 201401 ocak 2014 çarşambaanasayfaekonomifinansdış haberlerpolitikatoplumsektörlerkategori̇lerfinansne , nerede , ne zamangündembi̇k i̇lanlarıdünya ihtdış i̇lişkileremtiai̇şletme-yönetimmevzuatnews in englishgüncelyorum i̇ncelemebölgelerdenözel dosyalarresmi gazetetiger monitorbankacılık sektörübilişimdemir-çelik sektörüenerji sektörügıda sektörühaberleşme sektörühizmetleri̇nşaat sektörükimya-petrokimya sektörümadencilik sektörümağazacılık-perakendecilik sektörümedya sektörüotomotiv sektörüplastik-kauçuk sektörüsanayisavunma sanayiisigortacılık sektörütarım ve hayvancılıktaşımacılık sektörütekstil sektörüturizm sektörü17 : 48 - putinden , gül ve erdoğana yeni yıl mesajı17 : 32 - yılın yazar , fikir insanı ve sanatçıları açıklandı17 : 29 - filistinin prag büyükelçisi hayatını kaybetti17 : 24 - bulgaristanda asgari ücret 340 leva oldu17 : 22 - türkiye , avrupa ’ nın 11. zengini ! 17 : 16 - kuzu paralel devlet twitlerine açıklama getirdi17 : 15 - ötv artışı sektörü kötü etkileyecek16 : 38 - sayıştay tcdd raporu : gerekirse soruşturulsun16 : 03 - resmi burslu öğrencilere yeni yıl sürprizi15 : 54 - fakıbabadan türgeve 3 milyon liralık arsademir-çelik sektörü haberleriçelikte 2023 ihracat hedefi 5 milyar dolartürkiye çelik üreticileri derneği genel sekreteri veysel yayan , yaklaşık 200 ülkeye ihracat gerçekleştiren türkiye demir çelik sektörünün 2023 yılında ihracatını 55 milyar dolar seviyesine taşımayı hedeflediğini bildirdi ‘ demir çelik üretimimiz yüzde 5.5 düştü ’ i̇hracatta önemli paya sahip olan ve ağır sanayinin temelini oluşturan demir-çelik sektörü , büyümeye devam ederken bir taraftan da uygulanan antidampingle mücadele ediyor.paslanmaz çelikte gümrük vergisi yüzde 8 ’ e çıktıkonya 'da " döküm ve yan sanayi " fuarı açıldı " kondöküm 2013 " ve " konya 5 .
yan sanayiler " fuarı , kto-tüyap konya uluslararası fuar merkezi 'nde açıldı.çelik ihracatçıları 2023 için kolları sıvadıkardemir 'in yeni fabrikası üretime başladıkarabük demir ve çelik fabrikaları ( kardemi̇r ) genel müdürü fadıl demirel , " kriz var , kriz yok ' denilen ortamda devasa yatırımlar yaptık " dedi.çelik ihracatı 9 ayda 10.55 milyar dolar olduhurda gemi sökümünde zirve koşusu2012 ’ de tarihi rekorunu kırarak 36 yıl sonra ilk kez tam kapasite çalışan ve 927 bin ton gemiyi hurdaya alan gemi söküm sektörü , dünya ikinciliğine koşuyor.çelik boru ihracatı arttıçelik boru ihracatı ağustos ayında geçen yılın aynı ayına göre miktarda yüzde 7,6 , değerde ise yüzde 6,9 arttı.bursa sanayinin ilk 3 devi renault , tofaş ve boschbursa 'daki 250 büyük firma araştırması 2012 yılı sonuçları 'na göre toplam ciroda tofaş liderliği geçen yılın 2'ncisi oyak renault 'a kaptırarak 2'nci sıraya geriledi.ufuk demir çelik , yeni şube açacaktosyalı holding ’ in bayilerinden biri olarak , şube sayılarını 4 ’ e çıkarmayı hedeflediklerini kaydeden ufuk değer , gebze ’ de açmayı planladıkları yeni şubeleri için minimum 2 milyon tl ’ lik bir yatırım yapacaklarını kaydetti.posco assan tst , ilk çelik rulo sevkiyatını gerçekleştirdimakinede toparlanma beklentisimakine sektöründe , yaz aylarında mevsimsel durağanlık , yılın son aylarında ise daha hissedilir toparlanma bekleniyor.çelik borucu üreticileri hammadde fiyatlarından rahatsızçebi̇d genel sekreteri zeren : gümrük vergilerinin kaldırılması hem ab ülkeleri tarafından sık sık açılan anti damping soruşturmalarını bitirecek , hem de türk çelik boru sektörüne yeni bir ivme kazandırarak üretimin ve ihracatın artmasını sağlayacak.siemens 'in bayisiydi şimdi marka oluyor12345678sonraki sayfa dünya onlinedünya grubu hakkındaonline künyedünya gazetesi künyesiabonelikalışverişrssreklami̇letişimdiğer sitelerimizkobiden.comdunyastore.compcworld.com.trcomputerworld.com.trbyte.com.trdunyagida.com.trdunyainsaat.com.trdünya ekonomi tvdiocese of cheyenne knights of columbus men pretend to pray as youths ransack a mosque after setting it afire in the fouh district of bangui .
a severely wounded man lies unattended in a bangui mosque .
shrouded bodies lay in a mosque in bangui following a day-long gun battle between seleka soldiers and anti-balaka militias .
a nurse looks after a child lying on a hospital bed in bangui after he was injured in boali following an attack .
people prepare the body of a man before his funeral at the morgue of a mosque in bangui .
the man was found stabbed to death on the road to boali .
ain-al-yaqeen | about us | archive ain al yaqeen the silsbee bee we must act now if we 're to find common ground maeve o 'brien selected as sinn f & # 233 ; in candidate for tuam lea warrenpoint town snatch spoils at ballinamallard with last gasp goal it is unionist cowardice that is largely to blame for the failure ...
gardai to be armed in dissident crackdownbelfast telegraph 08 : 35 1-jan-14 f .
a physical or electronic signature of the owner of the copyrighted work or a person authorized to act on its behalf. b .
a statement under penalty of perjury that the impacted party has a good faith belief that the allegedly infringing material was removed or disabled as a result of mistake or misidentification of the material to be removed or disabled ; how my $ 1,500 is going to rescue the american economy sign your budle of joy up to be featured i & hellip ; mcdonald ’ s golden arches , target ’ s bull ’ s eye and starbucks ' mermaid are all instantly recog & hellip ; what ’ s new at poverty awareness event no room at the inn in 2013 ?
while the social issues of poverty and homelessness are not new concepts , catholic charities continues to find new ways to help and empower our brothers and sisters in need .
learn what ’ s new for the 2013 no room at the inn events to be held dec .
6-8 including new ways people are encouraged to get involved and fulfill our call to serve .
pret a manger , frog in pret a manger salad , frog in salad , frog nicoise salad , mealbreakers , nicoise salad with frog , pret a manger frog , pret a manger salad frog , lurie also tweeted that the staffer who found the frog in her salad was " was pretty shaken , understandably ! "
a pret a manger spokesperson sent the huffington post this statement on the amphibian mealbreaker : take heart , anonymous wsj staffer ( and pret a manger ) -- this horrifying slideshow of mealbreakers past attests to the fact that you are not alone : " the huffington post " is a registered trademark of thehuffingtonpost.com , inc .
all rights reserved.entertainment news hunkered down in his residence at the roux camp , the central african republic president is counting on a dwindling band of the faithful to try to rule what can still be ruled in shattered nation . ( ... )
central african republic 's ousted president françois bozize has been in france since the end of july but he has not managed to get an audience with the french president . ( ... )
the important oil and mines ministry was cut in two in central african republic ’ s ( ... )
the lamentable life expectancy of resolutions should come as no surprise .
the standard approach to them is all about the transient inspiration of cultural momentum , and not at all about preparation .
resolutions are a quintessential " ready or not , here we go ! " kind of enterprise .
essentially , the model tells us that at any given time with regard to any given behavior , some of us are ready for change , some of us are set to go , and some of us are already well on our way .
but , importantly , many of us are decidedly unready .
if we just go in spite of it all , we are apt to fail -- and that seems an unfortunate way to start a new year .
god and the world : a conversation with peter seewaldbehold the pierced oneon the way to jesus christcalled to communion : understanding the church todayco-workers of the truthdaughter zion : meditations of the church 's marian belief gospel , catechism and catechesis : sidelights on the catechism of the catholic church in the beginning ... "
a catholic understanding of the story of creation and the fall eschatology : death and eternal lifeimages of hope : meditations on major feastsvalues in a time of upheavalon the way to jesus christgod 's revolution : world youth day and other cologne talkschurch , ecumenism and politicsjesus of nazarethgod 's word : scripture , tradition , officenew outpourings of the spiriteurope : today and tomorrowthe dialectics of secularizationfanshawe student union > interrobang > submit a letter to the editor agreeing on the legislation ignited much discussion in the state 's legislature over the past two sessions .
debate focused on whether it was the responsibility of wyoming taxpayers to pick up the tab for the program .
he mentioned that the radars currently in operation include the one situated at banguro , dar es salaam and another one recently put up in mwanza .
the çukuralan goldfield was closed for no reason , koza altın said in a statement .
( photo : today 's zaman ) the order for the closure of the field came from the i̇zmir provincial administration and reason cited was the absence of " environmental permits or the environmental permits and licenses document . & rdquo ; a source close to the finance ministry told today 's zaman on condition of anonymity that the inspectors of the ministry were given orders back in july to search for ways to punish companies close to the hizmet movement .
koza i̇pek holding 's chairman akın i̇pek is also known for his support for the hizmet movement .
the government 's use of inspections to punish those companies that are politically dissent is not new .
it imposed a fine of $ 850 million on publisher doğan yayın holding in 2007 , after which the company 's newspapers and magazines had to turn down the volume on their criticisms .
similarly , the finance ministry 's inspectors raided some heavyweight energy companies of koç holding after erdoğan openly lashed out at the company , believing it was one of the plotters and instigators of the gezi protests last summer .
this scrutiny of the activities of the companies is continuing .
please be careful of bad publicity about company 's in pattaya that arecharging has much has 70-80,000 baht up front for a visa plus the embassy fee ask 10,000 deposit and if they fail to obtain the visa then they refund the 10,000 in full or you say try again we do not ask for any more money even if we have to do 5 times but the embassy fee has to be paid every time the company 's to stear clear off are easy visa and key visa remember you have been conned .
be careful once these people have got your money you have no chance of getting it returned only further expense * holders of a certificate of entitlement confirming right of abode in the united kingdom .
vague , i want to be with _ _ _ _ _ or i want to see the uk will not suffice .
4 / .
documentation of interests : " while in the uk i would very much 7 / .
if in doubt , to any degree of questions to be answered in writing , the 10 / .
avoid if at all possible any mention of a personal relationship .
15.turkey : kurdish boy burns himself in protest at incarceration of abdullah ocalan iraq war vet is the first person to buy pot legally in coloradohuffington postprohibition ends in colorado ! : recreational weed sales brisk in denversan francisco chronicle ( blog ) see all 977 sourcesrelated cannabis the atmosphere is bleaker than ever at the carthage palace , residence of tunisia ’ s president .
the possibility thatmoncef marzouki could be sacrificed in an agreement between ennahda and the opposition nidaa tounes party ( see opposite ) has sent some of the president ’ s leading advisers scouting for new jobs . ( ... )
a former senior executivemarathon oil in tunisia between 1983-96 .
mongi haffouz ( ... )
the us agency for international development says it plans to leave ecuador amid an impasse with the government , just six months after the agency was kicked out of bolivia , in what analysts say is another sign of the waning us influence in the region .
in a letter to usaid partners in the country on thursday , acting mission director christopher cushing said the decision to leave ecuador comes “ as ... ( 12 / 14 / 2013 10 : 21 : 11 am ) new york paid $ 61,600 a day to re-open the statue of liberty ; south dakota shelled out $ 152,000 to fund mount rushmore for 10 days ; so as a wise actor once said , leave britney alone .
let her lip sync .
she knows how to put on a performance , so sit back and be entertained .
just like in the case of the introduction of weighbridges by tanroads and electronic fiscal devices by the tanzania revenue authority , there is great need for sensitisation of the people into appreciating the measures taken .
but this will work only if the introduction of the systems is not laced with needless inconveniences mainly due to corruption , inefficiency and lack of accountability by those supposed to ensure that they work as expected . © 2014 laurentian publishingbombardier said to win order for $ 2.2b in jets | kob.com & ldquo ; this issue was not discussed at the [ council of ministers ] meeting as it was not seen as necessary to mention .
re-trials are always possible for concluded cases if the conditions are met .
as of today , amending current laws [ to allow the re-trial of army officers ] is no longer an issue , & rdquo ; said arınç . & ldquo ; what we need to do is to stand together against wrongs and acts that may be in violation of the constitution and the law , & rdquo ; he added .
chp to support in parliament ak party amendment for re-trials online abonelike-gazetehoşgeldi̇n 201401 ocak 2014 çarşambaanasayfaekonomifinansdış haberlerpolitikatoplumsektörlerkategori̇lerfinansne , nerede , ne zamangündembi̇k i̇lanlarıdünya ihtdış i̇lişkileremtiai̇şletme-yönetimmevzuatnews in englishgüncelyorum i̇ncelemebölgelerdenözel dosyalarresmi gazetetiger monitorbankacılık sektörübilişimdemir-çelik sektörüenerji sektörügıda sektörühaberleşme sektörühizmetleri̇nşaat sektörükimya-petrokimya sektörümadencilik sektörümağazacılık-perakendecilik sektörümedya sektörüotomotiv sektörüplastik-kauçuk sektörüsanayisavunma sanayiisigortacılık sektörütarım ve hayvancılıktaşımacılık sektörütekstil sektörüturizm sektörü17 : 48 - putinden , gül ve erdoğana yeni yıl mesajı17 : 32 - yılın yazar , fikir insanı ve sanatçıları açıklandı17 : 29 - filistinin prag büyükelçisi hayatını kaybetti17 : 24 - bulgaristanda asgari ücret 340 leva oldu17 : 22 - türkiye , avrupa ’ nın 11. zengini ! 17 : 16 - kuzu paralel devlet twitlerine açıklama getirdi17 : 15 - ötv artışı sektörü kötü etkileyecek16 : 38 - sayıştay tcdd raporu : gerekirse soruşturulsun16 : 03 - resmi burslu öğrencilere yeni yıl sürprizi15 : 54 - fakıbabadan türgeve 3 milyon liralık arsagündem01 ocak çarşamba 2- mısır 'da , müslüman kardeşler teşkilatının ( i̇hvan ) " terör örgütü " ilan edilmesine ilişkin gelişmeler , i̇hvan üyeleri hakkındaki gözaltı ve yargılamalar ile darbe karşıtı gösteriler takip ediliyor .
( kahire / i̇skenderiye ) bird moved in with a missoula host family in the fall of missed at home , but “ i ’ d like to see him have american samoa moves to arm police with handguns as opponents say the tiny islands " are not like chicago " ( 12 / 4 / 2013 6 : 05 : 12 am ) ' ngangari ' poacher nabbed with tusks , hippo tooth na nelson kessy tazara police also intercepted a bag with 19 kg of marijuana , the property of the suspect .
a lot of business to remember in 2013 in northeastern wisconsin sun dec 29 , 2013 06 : 20 am est big top ends the year on a positive note mon dec 30 , 2013 2 : 20 pm est two-hour standoff ends in arrests tue dec 17 , 2013 12 : 20 pm est ancient tomah spearhead found sun oct 27 , 2013 4 : 20 pm edt culvers bomb threat mon nov 11 , 2013 2 : 20 pm est friend of farmer , stute , takes new job mon dec 30 , 2013 6 : 20 pm est world braces for retirement crisis mon dec 30 , 2013 8 : 20 pm est fond du lac and area birth announcements mon dec 30 , 2013 06 : 20 am est school vouchers put education in spotlight mon dec 30 , 2013 06 : 20 am est grandparents who travel to care for grandchildren are a growing trend mon jul 29 , 2013 6 : 20 pm edt mich. man who died in wis. snowmobile crash id ’ d mon dec 30 , 2013 8 : 20 pm est la crosse firestone store closes mon dec 30 , 2013 6 : 20 pm est mich. man who died in wis. snowmobile crash ided mon dec 30 , 2013 4 : 20 pm est overnight low ties record in la crosse mon dec 30 , 2013 4 : 20 pm est viroqua man arrested for attempted armed robbery mon dec 30 , 2013 4 : 20 pm est suspect in beloit ’ photobomb ’ due in court fri dec 27 , 2013 08 : 20 am est girls basketball : tr tops valders at home mon dec 30 , 2013 06 : 20 am est man ’ s belt buckle stops bullet in fond du lac mon dec 30 , 2013 12 : 20 am est fate of menominee casino plan still up in the air mon dec 30 , 2013 6 : 20 pm est pulaski man charged with 11th owi offense wed aug 14 , 2013 02 : 20 am edt health can be factor in county planning wed aug 14 , 2013 02 : 20 am edt police seek man who attempted to rob plymouth store mon dec 30 , 2013 10 : 20 am est here are the most-watched videos of 2013 mon dec 30 , 2013 8 : 20 pm est ny monitor : apple hindering e-book antitrust work mon dec 30 , 2013 10 : 20 pm est bundle up : the arctic air is here to stay , for now mon dec 30 , 2013 2 : 20 pm est ask an officer mon dec 30 , 2013 08 : 20 am est the latest news aggregated from top sources around the web manatee and sarasota county holiday closings mon dec 30 , 2013 10 : 10 am est bones found on flagler county beach prove to be beaked whale sun dec 29 , 2013 8 : 10 pm est group donates pillows for breast cancer patients sun dec 29 , 2013 02 : 10 am est tim tebow returns to sec ... as an analyst mon dec 30 , 2013 6 : 10 pm est poll : vote for the top story of 2013 mon dec 30 , 2013 6 : 10 pm est lawmakers consider ’ move over ’ law for utility work mon dec 30 , 2013 8 : 10 pm est cape coral mourns for 13-year-old eddie buggs mon dec 30 , 2013 8 : 10 pm est broward schools pay $ 275,000 in whistleblower case mon dec 30 , 2013 10 : 10 pm est man accused of using fake bomb to rob bank tells judge he is ’ deep in debt ’ video mon dec 30 , 2013 10 : 10 pm est rip current warning for wednesday tue dec 24 , 2013 6 : 10 pm est arc broward helps parents learn to be better teachers mon dec 30 , 2013 8 : 10 pm est palm beach county tax collector balks at gun permits mon dec 30 , 2013 8 : 10 pm est man masturbated in front of kids at hotel pool , say police mon dec 30 , 2013 6 : 10 pm est deputies use stun gun on west boca man after alleged attack on teen mon dec 30 , 2013 6 : 10 pm est man pulls gun during panhandling dispute mon dec 30 , 2013 08 : 10 am est a gainesville family ’ s christmas wishes come true sun dec 29 , 2013 8 : 10 pm est shoplifting incidents lower this year so far wed dec 4 , 2013 02 : 10 am est year in review : jacksonvilles biggest bankruptcies of 2013 mon dec 30 , 2013 2 : 10 pm est spirits get lift from s. fla ’ s new distilleries mon dec 30 , 2013 06 : 10 am est man killed in crash mon dec 30 , 2013 06 : 10 am est gop can count ways to senate majority mon dec 30 , 2013 06 : 10 am est 2013 ends with two old broadway favorites on top mon dec 30 , 2013 10 : 10 pm est 11 caged dogs discovered in hialeah mon dec 30 , 2013 10 : 10 pm est abused , caged dogs found in hialeah mon dec 30 , 2013 8 : 10 pm est jay z and beyonce spotted in miami mon dec 30 , 2013 8 : 10 pm est bso pompano beach office evacuated mon dec 30 , 2013 4 : 10 pm est miami beach ’ s van dyke caf closing mon dec 30 , 2013 12 : 10 pm est report : miami heat ’ s dwyane wade has a love child mon dec 30 , 2013 6 : 10 pm est hospital closes in florala mon dec 30 , 2013 10 : 10 pm est winning bid tops $ 100,000 for zimmerman flag art mon dec 30 , 2013 6 : 10 pm est ban on harvesting goliath grouper is revisited wed dec 25 , 2013 4 : 10 pm est protest halts sewer drilling at keys attraction theater of the sea mon dec 23 , 2013 08 : 10 am est deputies say man tried to hide under big pile of laundry mon dec 30 , 2013 6 : 10 pm est any day surfing is a good day mon dec 30 , 2013 02 : 10 am est motorcycle , suv collision at sloans curve mon dec 30 , 2013 02 : 10 am est lifesaving campaign : push for aed use expands mon dec 30 , 2013 12 : 10 am est man injured at boca raton produce plant mon dec 30 , 2013 10 : 10 pm est fda rejects ms drug lemtrada mon dec 30 , 2013 10 : 10 pm est volcano in el salvador belching ash and gas mon dec 30 , 2013 10 : 10 pm est florida ’ s online sales tax woes mon dec 30 , 2013 8 : 10 pm est florida ’ s on-line sales tax woes mon dec 30 , 2013 6 : 10 pm est government closings for new year ’ s day mon dec 30 , 2013 8 : 10 pm est new year ’ s eve events mon dec 30 , 2013 8 : 10 pm est for nation ’ s drug supply , a mixture of regulations mon dec 30 , 2013 6 : 10 pm est people to watch in 2014 in sarasota-manatee mon dec 30 , 2013 6 : 10 pm est sarasota kennel club gets reprieve on cages mon dec 30 , 2013 4 : 10 pm est citrix tech predictions for 2014 : a corporate app store mon dec 30 , 2013 4 : 10 pm est tebow to get start as espn analyst for national championship game mon dec 30 , 2013 6 : 10 pm est update : tpd ’ s new chief sworn in today mon dec 30 , 2013 6 : 10 pm est irs simplifies rule on figuring your home office deduction mon dec 30 , 2013 2 : 10 pm est registered sex offenders on the rise mon dec 30 , 2013 10 : 10 pm est bucs fire coach greg schiano mon dec 30 , 2013 10 : 10 pm est college kids skydiving for championship mon dec 30 , 2013 8 : 10 pm est still no sign of missing lake tarpon boaters mon dec 30 , 2013 10 : 10 pm est aaa offers tow to go service for drivers this new year ’ s eve mon dec 30 , 2013 8 : 10 pm est search continues for missing boaters in lake tarpon mon dec 30 , 2013 8 : 10 pm est glazers fire schiano , dominik mon dec 30 , 2013 12 : 10 pm est volunteer tireless in alzheimer ’ s fight sun dec 29 , 2013 12 : 10 pm est hometown heroes : volunteer tireless in alzheimer ’ s fight sun dec 29 , 2013 02 : 10 am est suspect in seffner hit-and-run turns self in sun dec 29 , 2013 12 : 10 am est arrest made in robbery at boost mobile in seffner fri dec 27 , 2013 12 : 10 pm est mary kay awards cadillac to thonotosassa woman thu dec 26 , 2013 12 : 10 pm est drivers still running the red in florida mon dec 30 , 2013 6 : 10 pm est veta polytechnics tasked to produce job creators na the guardian reporter director of the vocational and education training authority ( veta ) for the northern zone , angelus ngonyani said : & ldquo ; it is important for colleges to ensure that veta students are trained on issues related to entrepreneurship , so that at the end of the day they become job creators and not job seekers as was before . & rdquo ; the training is held in all five zones of tanzania .
subscribe to costa blanca news ; costa levante news ; costa almeria news or costa del sol news and join the group of people who are best informed about living in spaindigital subscription ( e-paper ) with an e-paper subscription you can read your paper on line , where and whenever you wish.order form > > > newspaper samplewould you like to peruse one of our newspapers briefly ? here you can read one of our old editions to enable you to get to know the paper .
sample e-paper > > > a fisherman who was bitten by a shark while untangling a fishing net is now recovering on oahu after a long range medevac conducted by the coast guard . ( 12 / 16 / 2013 8 : 28 : 22 pm ) of what brought him to seek a life of service. climbs and is an avid hiker in the time he much deeper desire to be a priest and to be looks at this time in seminary as a time to has a great gift of teaching the faith to people is learning on his journey is that he is a on the press when it should head in the sand to contact us : enterprise @ easttexasnews.comhow much the minimum wage should be and why | cadran politic « previouscât ar trebui să fie salariul minim şi de ce © 2012 cadran politic · rss · designed by theme junkie · powered by wordpressapartments part 2 - the grated rind and juice of ½ a lemon rdc : les combats font des milliers de nouveaux déplacés dans le nord-kivu des hélicoptères de l ’ armée congolaise , les fardc , ont lancé une attaque , mercredi , près du quartier-général des rebelles du m23 .
l ’ information a été confirmée par les deux camps , mais le président du m23 , bertrand bisimwa , dément que ses positions aient été touchées durant l ’ attaque . & rdquo ; il n ’ ont attaqué aucune cible militaire , & bdquo ; dit bisimwa ; & rdquo ; ils n ’ ont attaqué que des maisons et des résidents aux alentours de rumangabo . & bdquo ; des médecins de la localité affirment que plusieurs enfants ont été tués et des maisons détruites .
les victimes seraient au nombre de quatre — trois enfants et un adulte — selon un médecin d ’ un hamuli ) a démenti l ’ information .
une patrouille de l 'armée congolaise à kibati , une patrouille de l 'armée congolaise à kibati , le 22 juillet 2013 la reprise des combats dans le nord-kivu a augmenté le nombre de personnes déplacées soit vers la capitale de la province , goma , soit vers d ’ autres villes ou même vers d ’ autres pays de la région .
ecoutez imane cherif , chargée d ’ information à l ’ agence humanitaire de l ’ onu , ocha , au nord-kivu , nous décrire la situation .
a washington , le département d ’ etat a lancé un appel au rwanda pour qu ’ il cesse tout appui aux rebelles du m23 et fasse le retrait de ses soldats de la république démocratique du congo . & rdquo ; nous croyons qu 'il y a un ensemble de preuves crédibles qui supportent les principales conclusions du rapport de human rights watch , y compris le soutien de hauts responsables rwandais au m23 et la présence de militaires rwandais en rdc .
nous appelons le rwanda à cesser immédiatement tout soutien au m23 , a retirer son personnel militaire de l 'est de la rdc et donner suite à ses engagements au titre de l ’ accord-cadre signé ( entre les pays de la région , & bdquo ; a dit jen psaki , porte-parole du département d ’ etat .
dans un entretien avec le service francophone de la voa , l ’ ambassadeur du rwanda aux etats-unis , mathilde mukantabana , a rejeté la thèse du soutien de kigali au m23 , disant que le rapport de human rights watch est entaché d ’ erreurs et ne the week ’ s developments are just the latest in a tangled history of the gay marriage debate in new mexico , and the lack of court rulings on the issue has left the matter up for debate for years .
the state is the only one in the u.s. without a law that bans or allows same-sex marriage or civil unions and the state ’ s marriage statutes are seen as gender neutral .
real estate apartments-furnishedapartments-unfurnishedcommercial / industrialcondominiums / duplexeshomes for renthomes for saleland for saleoffice spaceopen housesroomates wantedstoragevacation rentals services carpeting / flooring / tilechild carechimneyscomputer servicesdesign serviceselectriciansfinancialguttershome repair / improvementslandscaping / lawncaremiscellaneous servicespainting / paperingplumbingres . / comm .
cleaningroofingservicessnow plowingtree servicestutoring / classeswindows 10 / 5 / 2012 - working in antarctica - are you up to the challenge ?
working in antarctica – are you up to the challenge ?
a list of upcoming events around the diocese of des moines tax cuts also are being suggested by arizona gov. janet napolitano ( d ) , who is urging $ 100 million in targeted tax credits and cuts that she has dubbed " smart tax relief , " and kansas gov. kathleen sebelius ( d ) , who wants to nix the property tax that businesses pay on new machinery and equipment in hopes of providing a shot in the arm for the state 's economy .
wisconsin gov. jim doyle ( d ) has proposed a " living wage " tax credit as one aspect of a broad " affordability agenda " designed to assist families struggling to stay afloat in the badger state .
we offer individual and family ppo and hmo plans to meet the needs of our employees .
a portion of the individual premium is employer subsidized .
aportion of the dependent premium costs for an employee ’ s spouse and dependent children is also subsidized .
as with all of ourbenefit plans , coverage starts on the first day of the month following the employee 's date ofemployment. exploded in burundi 's capital bujumbura as revellers were ushering in the new of midnight , a grenade exploded in the buyenzi neighbourhood , killing one and in the capital and across the country but two other grenades exploded in the eight years of isaf operations in afghanistan .
who are the winners ?
president of afghanistan is through with " dangerous operations " of foreign contingents плетеная мебель | пушкин .
пансионат горный воздух - неоконченная проза .
for nearly a century the sower has been of help and assistance in catholic education .
we offer creative ideas and methods to give you confidence in accessing and passing on the riches of the faith in all its holiness , beauty and integrity .
published four times a year , the sower is a publication of the maryvale institute in birmingham , england .
click here to subscribe to the sower review and visit the rest of the website , http : / / www.thesowerreview.org / index.asp in the russian federation and subsequent decision by the country to ban a report summarizing the accomplishments of the u.s. humanitarian mine the prs 2 presents the first three-year plan to operationalize the country 's to serve as a medium-range socio-economic development programme for the in the scope and quality of social services aimed at easing the burden the focus of the research is on eu 's funding programmes in 2004-2007. do exist as the main perquisites such as financial institutions for delivery , in wfp and among the ngos and some investment would be needed in order and langar villages of kalai-surkh jamoat , and kochamandi village of nusratullo mitigation in order to forestall costly damage to the economy , population , do not take steps to prepare for and mitigate the effects of drought , damage after the reading , the response was the recitation of the prayer for the year of faith , the nicene creed .
a decade of the rosary was recited as a prayer for the entire diocese of duluth .
the students led the procession out of the church , while reciting the our father .
now , almost a year has passed and we are preparing for the conclusion of the year of faith on the solemnity of christ the king , nov .
24 .
the rpc named the suspects as seif bakari ( 28 ) , hamid makame ( 29 ) , evance gidion ( 29 ) and abraham hamis ( 23 ) all residents of arusha city .
rpc saabas named the suspects as papai tooko ( 40 ) , leshnga mawoi ( 45 ) , silanga olesitoi ( 42 ) and sombe ngaina ( 30 ) . was also the emcee for the event on january 16 , 2010also , on november 3 , 2008 , coach was honored by the march of dimes as an elm city legend at the omni hotel in new haven .
the ciac has made changes to the schedule to try to get the games in befroe the snow hits big .
class s kicks the weekend off with ansonia taking on woodland in an all nvl final .
the chargers defeated the hawks in the nvl championship game a few weeks ago .
ansonia certainly will be the favorite in this one .
84-49 are you kidding me ?
this was the final score in a quarterfinal game this year .
the day i rank teams by the number of points they win by , is the day i stop voting in the poll .
what are we encouraging by doing that ?
november 23 , 2013 oranjestad , st eustatius -- the opening of the exhibition ’ days of slavery on st eustatius ’ by king willem-alexander of the netherlands in the museum of the st eustatius historical foundation ( sehf ) was marked by an awkward as a result of a last-minute change by the island governor ’ s cabinet .
havana ( ap ) — in cuba , time is in the eye of the beholder . ( 12 / 20 / 2013 1 : 18 : 45 pm ) josina leguit is a dutch student pursuing a bachelor ’ s degree in communication science in the netherlands .
during her life time , she had never been to africa and tanzania in particular .
ict can transform the way that education is delivered and open the way to a new pedagogy . it can make it easier for teachers to plan and find high quality materials , and it can help pupils to find out more about the subjects that they are studying .
our land of peace may be known for experiencing periodic shortages of all sorts of commodities and services , but not new plans and initiatives .
the latest initiative in the offing , which was recently hinted on by the official government newspaper , is the code of conduct for our honourable legislators .
at the end of last week i was invited to an event on fundraising to support needy students who are studying at kibasila secondary school .
this event was organized by roots and shoots club at the school .
complaints on operation to get rid of illegal immigrants should be addressed indeed , this is a laudable idea that was the brainchild of the international inspiration tanzania women ’ s task force which met recently at the british council in dar es salaam .
an interesting workshop on auditing issues in tanzania was held in dar es salaam during the last week of august 2013 , and some of us got the opportunity to be participants .
one may as well say it was unique , in the sense that unlike many other professional meetings which normally bring together birds of a feather to professionally flock together , this time around you had a combination of a professional auditors and laymen and women , who for two consecutive days seriously deliberated on auditing matters – in the interests of the general public .
as football federations on the continent get on with the weighty business of improving african football , the need to cherish the past while trying to boldly seize the future is absolutely important .
it is sad to note that despite its great potential , women ’ s football in the country has still yet to take off in a really meaningful and significant way .
roger slack in his article ’ pedactice - the use of multimedia in schools ’ which was published in september , 1999 , comments that the growth of information and communication technology ( ict ) in society is reflected in policies to encourage the use of ict in education and the development of educational multimedia .
the 2013 global corruption barometer report , published annually by transparency international , is now on the bookshelves and online .
for some of us who happened to attend the smart partnership movement meeting held in dar es salaam last week for the first time , the event was an eye opener in a number of ways .
who 'll bell the cat for evasion of tax by multinational companies ?
great supplement and i love the packaging !
viagra price ?
high quality of the medications we offer is the subject of our primary concern .
scott hahnchristopher westtheology of the body institutetheology of the bodytheology of the body for teenstheology of the body for teens leadeship trainingdefenders of the catholic faith , steve raypeter kreeft we 're proud to be the publishers of the newspaper serving the minot air force base the minot air force base community and the minot area communities .
this site provides you a way to view the newspaper , how to improve quality of education in the caribbean for the next generation ?
dmca noticelobos feast on antelopes in the pit , 80-68 | kob.com online abonelike-gazetehoşgeldi̇n 201401 ocak 2014 çarşambaanasayfaekonomifinansdış haberlerpolitikatoplumsektörlerkategori̇lerfinansne , nerede , ne zamangündembi̇k i̇lanlarıdünya ihtdış i̇lişkileremtiai̇şletme-yönetimmevzuatnews in englishgüncelyorum i̇ncelemebölgelerdenözel dosyalarresmi gazetetiger monitorbankacılık sektörübilişimdemir-çelik sektörüenerji sektörügıda sektörühaberleşme sektörühizmetleri̇nşaat sektörükimya-petrokimya sektörümadencilik sektörümağazacılık-perakendecilik sektörümedya sektörüotomotiv sektörüplastik-kauçuk sektörüsanayisavunma sanayiisigortacılık sektörütarım ve hayvancılıktaşımacılık sektörütekstil sektörüturizm sektörü17 : 48 - putinden , gül ve erdoğana yeni yıl mesajı17 : 32 - yılın yazar , fikir insanı ve sanatçıları açıklandı17 : 29 - filistinin prag büyükelçisi hayatını kaybetti17 : 24 - bulgaristanda asgari ücret 340 leva oldu17 : 22 - türkiye , avrupa ’ nın 11. zengini ! 17 : 16 - kuzu paralel devlet twitlerine açıklama getirdi17 : 15 - ötv artışı sektörü kötü etkileyecek16 : 38 - sayıştay tcdd raporu : gerekirse soruşturulsun16 : 03 - resmi burslu öğrencilere yeni yıl sürprizi15 : 54 - fakıbabadan türgeve 3 milyon liralık arsamevzuatresmi gazetesayı : 28868resmî gazetesayi : 28867resmî gazetesayi : 288662014 bütçesi resmi gazete 'deresmî gazetesayi : 28864resmî gazetesayi : 28863resmî gazetesayi : 28862resmî gazetesayi : 28861resmî gazetesayi : 28860resmî gazetesayi : 28857resmî gazetesayi : 28856resmî gazetesayi : 28855resmî gazetesayi : 28854resmî gazetesayi : 28853resmî gazetesayi : 2885212345678sonraki sayfa mevzuatgümrük-dış ticaret mevzuatımevzuat - diğerrekabet mevzuatısanayi ve ticaret mevzuatısermaye piyasaları mevzuatışirketler mevzuatıvergi mevzuatıresmi gazete dünya onlinedünya grubu hakkındaonline künyedünya gazetesi künyesiabonelikalışverişrssreklami̇letişimdiğer sitelerimizkobiden.comdunyastore.compcworld.com.trcomputerworld.com.trbyte.com.trdunyagida.com.trdunyainsaat.com.trdünya ekonomi tv los angeles , ca area news headlines - newsbystate.com la 24 de ani de la momentul decembrie 1989 , în contrast cu visurile și speranțele de atunci ale românilor , avem o clasă politică imorală , tot mai ruptă de cetățeni , care s-a înconjurat cu ziduri legislative menite să-i protejeze privilegiile .
prefăcându-se că sunt în tabere opuse , politicienii mimează democrația dar pe sub masă își dau mâna pentru a satisface interesele îmbogățiților de tranziție și ale corporațiilor străine .
în timp ce ei își pregătesc superimunități și amnistii , abuzul de putere și de forță devine singura lege aplicabilă restului de 20 de milioane de români .
disprețul este moneda cu care au tratat și tratează cererile legitime ale cetățenilor , strigate de nenumărate ori în stradă de la 1 septembrie .
de aceea este necesar să facem un pas înainte , să-i determinăm pe unii dintre ei să plece de la putere , iar pe ceilalți să dărâme zidurile legislative care acoperă afacerile murdare și împiedică venirea unor oameni noi , necompromiși , să gestioneze treburile publice .
sunt numeroase revendicările care ar trebui incluse pe listă pentru a readuce românia la o stare de normalitate , le-am notat doar pe cele mai dureroase în momentul actual și în special pe cele ce pot deschide uşa schimbării .
de aceea , cerem : destituirea conducerii jandarmeriei și anchetarea abuzurilor comise la pungesti și în alte localități , cu participarea unor experți desemnați de consiliul europei .
abrogarea noilor modificări aduse codului penal , legii amnistiei precum și respingerea proiectului de modificare a legii exproprierii .
modificarea legii partidelor politice pentru relaxarea condițiilor de înființare a acestora .
revizuirea legilor electorale prin eliminarea pragurilor și reducerea numărului de semnături pentru înregistrarea candidaților independenți .
desecretizarea tuturor contractelor și clauzelor confidențiale încheiate de statul român , cu excepția celor din domeniul apărării și siguranței naționale .
interzicerea mineritului pe bază de cianuri în românia și includerea roșiei montane pe lista patrimoniului mondial unesco .
interzicerea prin lege în românia a fracturării hidraulice de mare volum în explorarea și exploatarea gazelor de șist și a altor hidrocarburi provenind din zăcăminte neconvenționale .
anularea concesiunilor și licențelor de explorare și exploatare a hidrocarburilor de șist .
« previousemil constantinescu a primit premiul de excelență la conferința anuală a institutului de diplomație culturală © 2013 cadran politic · rss · designed by theme junkie · powered by wordpress diocesan centennial : : diocese of des moines for a copy of the video " witnessing to christ " please contact the diocesan communications office .
throughout the year , the diocese has worked to advance a number of initiatives in identifying and addressing the needs of the diocese for the coming years .
“ the state shouldn ’ t be counting on people to violate laws in order to pad their budgets , ” brandes said .
burundi : un collectif contre la vie chère se monte pour dénoncer de nouvelles taxes burundi : un collectif contre la vie chère se monte pour dénoncer de le gouvernement burundais vient d ’ adopter un projet de budget révisé qui institue de nouvelles taxes , qui vont frapper tous les produits ou presque de la vie courante , et l ’ a envoyé à l ’ assemblé nationale , qui doit l ’ adopter ce mardi 23 juillet .
lundi , plus de 200 personnes ont répondu à l ’ appel lancé par le collectif campagne contre la vie chère au burundi , pour participer à une des dizaines de personnes , des jeunes et des vieux , hommes et femmes , se sont succédé au micro pendant trois heures pour dénoncer la volonté du gouvernement et pour une fois , oubliée la peur d ’ être fichés par les services secrets : les gens n ’ ont pas hésité à décliner leur identité avant d ’ exprimer librement leurs sentiments .
certains ont appelé à la grève générale , d ’ autres au boycott des transports publics ou de la bière , la boisson nationale au burundi . & bdquo ; le pouvoir veut notre mort « , a renchéri rose , la soixantaine .
pacifique , un jeune homme d ’ à peine vingt ans s ’ est attiré un franc succès avec sa référence à la & bdquo ; ça ne peut pas continuer comme ça , car nous n ’ avons plus rien à perdre , s 'est-il exclamé .
comme on l ’ a vu en egypte .
n 'ayons pas peur nous aussi .
le moment est venu pour les burundais de descendre dans la rue .
« l ’ adoption par l ’ assemblée nationale du projet de budget révisé , prévue dans un premier temps ce lundi , a été reportée au 23 juillet .
pacifique nininahazwe , un des leaders du collectif campagne contre la vie chère en appelle aux députés burundais . & bdquo ; je demande aux députés d ’ écouter le message de la population , qui se dit excédée , et qui indique que si une telle mesure était adoptée par les parlementaires , la population est prête à aller dans la rue .
« mais tout le monde sait que l ’ espoir d ’ être entendu est mince , très mince .
ce collectif se prépare déjà à un bras de fer avec le pouvoir .
investors to eye riskier markets in 2013 : control riskstext sizepublished : tuesday , 31 dec 2013 | 6 : 31 am et newseconomyfinancehealth carereal estateretailwealthautosearningsenergymediapoliticscommentaryspecial reportsasiaeuropemarketspre-marketsu.s.asiaeuropestockscommoditiescurrenciesbondsfundsetfsinvestingfinancial advisorspersonal financecnbc explainsportfoliowatchliststock screenerfund screenertechmobilesocial mediaenterprisegamingcybersecuritysmall businessfranchisingfinancingmanagementvideolatest videodigital workshopu.s. videoasia videoeurope videoceo interviewsanalyst interviewsfull episodesclosed captioningshowswatch livecnbc u.s.cnbc asia-pacificcnbc europecnbc worldfull episodescnbcabout cnbcsite mapvideo reprintsadvertisecareershelpcontactprivacy policyterms of serviceindependent programming reportlatest news releasesrsscertain market data provided by thomson reutersdata also provided bydata is a real-time snapshot * data is delayed at least 15 minutesglobal business and financial news , stock quotes , and market data and analysis © 2014 cnbc llc . all rights reserved.a division of nbcuniversal prairie public broadcasting investors circle certain somalian intermediaries to an american law firm played a significant role in the resignation of the governor of the central bank of somalia , yussur abrar . ( ... )
the somalian secretary of state to the presidency , farah sheikh abdiqadir , has been ( ... )
father of autistic son takes advantage of health care law search news : advancedhomesite mapprivacy policyabout dubai.comqatar lawyersadvertise with usfollow us on facebookfollow us on twittercontact our advertising team for advertising or sponsorship on world news network latvia crude oil consumption by year ( thousand barrels per day ) divorces for nov .
18 , 2013 mon nov 18 , 2013 02 : 26 am est huron act celebrates five years mon dec 30 , 2013 10 : 26 am est dakota provisions ups its united way ante mon dec 23 , 2013 10 : 26 pm est skating on solid ice mon dec 23 , 2013 8 : 26 pm est deck the halls at stoneybrook sat dec 21 , 2013 8 : 26 pm est sharing christmas carols fri dec 20 , 2013 10 : 26 am est top 10 stories at rapidcityjournal.com in 2013 mon dec 30 , 2013 8 : 26 pm est photo : car / pedestrian wreck at walmart mon dec 30 , 2013 12 : 26 pm est sioux falls police look for man who hit snowplow fri dec 27 , 2013 10 : 26 am est former sd sen. pressler running as independent thu dec 26 , 2013 8 : 26 pm est buffalo bars by sd co. now on 375 reservations thu dec 26 , 2013 12 : 26 pm est assistant coach jorgensen putting on augustana uniform mon dec 30 , 2013 12 : 26 pm est floyd farrand invitational : parkston keeps the crown sun dec 29 , 2013 04 : 26 am est police file on newtown yields chilling portrait fri dec 27 , 2013 6 : 26 pm est home for christmas tue dec 24 , 2013 4 : 26 pm est year in review : hbj ’ s photos of the year mon dec 30 , 2013 4 : 29 pm est kmg chemicals inc. names new cfo mon dec 30 , 2013 4 : 29 pm est beyonce slammed for ’ shock value ’ use of shuttle disaster audio in song mon dec 30 , 2013 2 : 27 pm est fire engulfs home in nw harris county mon dec 23 , 2013 10 : 27 am est hpd releases photo of suspect connecteed to north houston robberies mon dec 30 , 2013 2 : 27 pm est partial evacuation of nd town near oil derailment mon dec 30 , 2013 8 : 27 pm est click for more localwork.ca muskoka jobsget paid to " hangout " | kob.com © 2013 indexmundi - all rights reserved snow sledding down the wilson hill in manitowoc | htrnews.com | manitowoc man-news | htr media grief at holiday time or anytime not as easy as you might think it ’ s time to renew annual liquor licenses for center bar owners and the renewal was on the line for cahoon ’ s bar and grill .
the irish independent can reveal that the road safety authority ( rsa ) is on the cusp of finalising a " mutual recognition system " with the canadian authorities .
to subscribe to the " newfoundland and labrador news " email alert , click the button below .
calgary web design by media dog productionsidei contemporane | cadran politic este de-a dreptul suspectă insistenţa şi , mai ales , maniera în care sunt contestate unele abordări în materie de istorie şi arheologie , anume cele care pledează pentru importanţa istorică a tracilor sau , şi mai „ rău ” , a dacilor .
toate sunt luate în derizoriu şi băgate de-a valma în cazanul comun al „ tracomaniei ” sau „ dacomaniei ” , ca manifestări patologice ale insuficienţei ...
problematica dezvoltării regionale a apărut pe agenda politică europeană odată cu sfârşitul anilor 1950 sub forma politicilor de dezvoltare regională .
politicile de dezvoltare regională din acestă perioadă erau mai degrabă centraliste în concepţie şi în administrare .
ele au fost concepute ca reprezentând o parte integrată a politicii naţionale , având ca principal obiectiv asigurarea ...
bruxelles-ul este capitala de facto a uniunii europene .
vrem , nu vrem , peste 75 % din legislaţia aplicată în românia îşi are originea la bruxelles .
există o dinamică contemporană la nivelul ue – se discută reforma instituţiilor europene şi noile competenţe , iar românia trebuie să fie activă în acest mecanism de poziţionare . „ iugoslavia și tito – cei mai buni prieteni ai româniei ” această legendă , la dimensiuni de mit , este întreținută de mai mulți factori din manipulatorii de opinie publică românească din mai multe motive .
unele mai cunoscute , altele mai puțin .
unul dintre cele mai importante este că serviciile secrete din cele două țări au colaborat excelent în perioada 1954-1989 în combaterea opoziției față de regimurile instalate în cele două țări ....
îmbogățirea nu aduce glorie .
conștient de faptul că cei mulți vor rămâne în urmă , iar acest lucru se va transforma într-o problemă la un moment dat , deng xiaoping a inițiat reformele care au asigurat renașterea economică a chinei .
din anumite puncte de vedere deng a avut o sarcină ușoară în comparație cu problemele pe care xi jinping trebuie să le înfrunte .
conştient sau nu , traian băsescu a trasat perfect rolul văzut de clasa politică pentru românia : bazin de forţă de muncă .
ieftină .
fără drepturi şi fără pretenţii .
să zică mersi că au un servici şi nu mor de foame , deşi există studii care arată un grad mare de sărăcie în rândul angajaţilor din românia , care trece de 25 % .
un salariu minim de 540 lei net ...
conform lui marc chevrier ( & # 8220 ; une grand oubliée : société civile & # 8221 ; ) , societatea civilă reprezintă „ ansamblul raporturilor interindividuale , a structurilor familiale , sociale , economice , culturale , religioase , care se dezvoltă în societatea dată , în afara cadrului şi intervenţiei statului ” .
aceasta cuprinde forme asociative de tip apolitic şi care nu sunt părţi ale unei instituţii ...
notă : textul de mai jos a fost scris în 2007 .
merită citit pentru o confruntare cu realitatea politică actuală .
la nivel european dezbaterea momentului este “ mai multă sau mai puţină europă ” .
la noi nu se dezbate , traian băsescu a decis că ne trebuie mai multă , usl n-are nici o opinie .
crin antonescu încearcă să joace rolul anti-europeanului , dar el nu se pune , fiindcă el doar este contra lui băsescu şi dacă acesta a zis albă , crin nu poate zice nici măcar bălană , obligatoriu trebuie să ...
populaţia româniei este concentrată în proporţie de 44,8 % în mediul rural .
însă , dacă avem în vedere că 13 oraşe au mai puţin de 5.000 de locuitori , 60 de oraşe au până în 10.000 de locuitori , multe oraşe şi municipii au în componenţă sate , iar multe nu îndeplinesc condiţiile minimale impuse de legislație pentru statutul de oraş sau municipiu , ... © 2013 cadran politic · rss · designed by theme junkie · powered by wordpresssudbury sends crews to help storm-battered southern ontario advent is a joy-filled time for catholics as it should be as we await the birth of our savior .
but the past few weeks have raised the level of joy to what seems like an all-time high .
" the christian message is called the ' gospel , ' that is , ' good news , ' an announcement of joy for all people ; the church is not a shelter for sad people , the church is the house of joy ! " he exclaimed .
" in the liturgy is the invitation to rejoice , because the lord is near , christmas is near . "
may the joy pope francis speaks of again and again be present in our parishes and our lives this christmas and in the new year .
it can also be found on the investors.com home page , where it 's updated intraday . the criteria for a stock to make it on the list are as follows : deputy ministers differ on sim card tax story na devota mwachang 'a finance deputy ministers saada mkuya and janeth mbene have issued contradicting statements on the sim card tax story published in this paper on friday .
mbene , who is quoted in the story as having said she had no comment on the issue , yesterday flatly denied ever being contacted by our reporter in a telephone interview .
mbene said the reporter may have confused the names and telephone numbers of the two deputy ministers , adding that the one who spoke to media personnel on thursday was mkuya and not her .
home vitrina cu cărți usla în stare de hipnoză & # 8211 ; marian romanescu cartea dăruită de autor nu are aproape nimic literar , este o prezentare de fapte şi personaje reale din timpul revoluţiei din decembrie 1989 , care se constituie într-o mărturie şocantă ce multor lideri politici postdecembrişti nu le convine , dar nu numai atât , au încercat cu asiduitate să creeze în jurul autorului o legendă potrivit căreia informaţiile publicate nu pot fi credibile întrucât marian romanescu este victima propriilor ficţiuni aşa cum rezultă dintr-un diagnostic acordat cu dărnicie de autorităţile militare prin decizia nr .
4148 / 13 din 31 iulie 1990 . încercările autorităţilor , atât militare , cât şi civile , au eşuat datorită deciziei 43137 / 98 romanescu vs românia a curţii europene a drepturilor omului ( cedo ) care demonstrează cu claritate încălcarea articolului 5 paragraful 2 din convenţie .
( virginia mircea ) « previousrussian opposition , the voters and wilted laurels of dissidence next a fi musulman .
islam , pace şi democratie & # 8211 ; alteţa sa regală prinţul el hassan bin talal © 2010 cadran politic · rss · designed by theme junkie · powered by wordpress bhg news - mclean county independent - news the ice skates are hanging on the wall , ready for skaters .
the ice is on the rink , ready to be used .
and the phones have been ringing off the hook at garrison ’ s indoor skating rink from people inquiring if and when the facility will be open .
but there is no answer .
there will be no ice skating in the indoor rink this year .
pay hikes for teachers grew in the single digits over the past years .
if the governor has his way there will be more pay increases tied to students ’ successes .
the douglas post office is relatively small – in fact , it ’ s about the right size for a few patrons to be served at a time .
online abonelike-gazetehoşgeldi̇n 201401 ocak 2014 çarşambaanasayfaekonomifinansdış haberlerpolitikatoplumsektörlerkategori̇lerfinansne , nerede , ne zamangündembi̇k i̇lanlarıdünya ihtdış i̇lişkileremtiai̇şletme-yönetimmevzuatnews in englishgüncelyorum i̇ncelemebölgelerdenözel dosyalarresmi gazetetiger monitorbankacılık sektörübilişimdemir-çelik sektörüenerji sektörügıda sektörühaberleşme sektörühizmetleri̇nşaat sektörükimya-petrokimya sektörümadencilik sektörümağazacılık-perakendecilik sektörümedya sektörüotomotiv sektörüplastik-kauçuk sektörüsanayisavunma sanayiisigortacılık sektörütarım ve hayvancılıktaşımacılık sektörütekstil sektörüturizm sektörü17 : 48 - putinden , gül ve erdoğana yeni yıl mesajı17 : 32 - yılın yazar , fikir insanı ve sanatçıları açıklandı17 : 29 - filistinin prag büyükelçisi hayatını kaybetti17 : 24 - bulgaristanda asgari ücret 340 leva oldu17 : 22 - türkiye , avrupa ’ nın 11. zengini ! 17 : 16 - kuzu paralel devlet twitlerine açıklama getirdi17 : 15 - ötv artışı sektörü kötü etkileyecek16 : 38 - sayıştay tcdd raporu : gerekirse soruşturulsun16 : 03 - resmi burslu öğrencilere yeni yıl sürprizi15 : 54 - fakıbabadan türgeve 3 milyon liralık arsagaleri dhoşgeldin 2014yeni yıl türkiye 'nin birçok bölgesinde çoşkuyla karşılandı .
cadde ve sokaklar ışıklarla bezendi .
yılbaşı gecesi şişli belediyesi nişantaşı 'nda , beşiktaş belediyesi bebek parkı 'nda , kadıköy belediyesi ise bağdat caddesi 'nde renkli organizasyonlar düzenlendi.1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5 | 6 | 7 | 8 | 9 | 10 | 11 | 12 | 13 | 14 | 15 | 16 | 17 > > eklenme tarihi : 31 aralık 2013 salı 22 : 52son güncelleme : 01 : 41bu galeri 2467 kez tıklandı .
rastgele galeri̇lergoogle 'ın şampiyonları hadise ile muhteşem yüzyılabd 'nin en zengin 10'ucenevre otomobil fuarı - 3cumhuriyet coşkusu boğaz 'ı aydınlattıruslar , tiflis 'e ilerliyordünya zanaatkar , türkiye kalifiye işçi arıyorcenevre otomobil fuarı tam gaz " vadideki güzel şehir " kabuğunu kırmak istiyorpapa bugün de seçilemedikıtadan kıtaya koştular ! ünlüler , ticaretine bakıyorifw 2012 - 2'nci gün : deniz kaprol galeri kategorilerigüncelotomotivbankacılık / finansekonomiturizmsağlıkkültür - sanatson eklenen galeriler2013 ’ in yerli süper yatlarıi̇şte dünyanın en pahalı otomobilleriyeni yılın zamlı vergi ve harçlarıhoşgeldin 2014 popüler galerilergeri kabul anlaşması nedir ? i̇şte türkiye ’ nin kredi riski haritasıyılın en etkileyici 10 fotoğrafıyeni yılın zamlı vergi ve harçları ekonomi17 : 22 - türkiye , avrupa ’ nın 11. zengini ! 17 : 15 - " ötv artışı sektörü kötü etkileyecek " 15 : 07 - kredi kartı düzenlemesi tüketiciyi paniğe soktu14 : 18 - boydak : hükümetin bakışını işadamına çevirmesini istiyoruz14 : 01 - bireysel emekliliğe katılım yüzde 30 arttı14 : 00 - bddk 'nın 5 yönetmeliği yürürlüğe girdi13 : 46 - yabancı marmaray kadar harcama yaptı13 : 35 - i̇stanbul ’ da yıllık enflasyon yüzde 7.9813 : 32 - hurda araçlardan 58 milyon lira katkı13 : 16 - elektrikte tarife bedelleri netleşti13 : 11 - tüketiciyi aldatana zamlı tarife13 : 06 - tüketimi kısma önlemleri devam ediyor13 : 05 - memurun gözü aralık enflasyonunda13 : 00 - gai̇b ihracatta en yüksek değerine ulaştı12 : 00 - asgari ücrete yüzde 5 + 6 zam yapıldıpolitika17 : 16 - kuzu ' paralel devlet ' twitlerine açıklama getirdi16 : 38 - sayıştay tcdd raporu : gerekirse soruşturulsun15 : 54 - fakıbaba 'dan türgev 'e 3 milyon liralık arsa15 : 43 - bu yıl orta gelirli için kemer sıkma yılı olacak15 : 14 - adalet bakanlığı 'nda yeni isim10 : 40 - i̇çişleri bakanı ala yemin edecek10 : 36 - erdoğan 'dan yılın ilk yurtdışı ziyareti22 : 42 - sağlık bakanlığı 'na 10 bin personel kadrosu21 : 53 - " amacımız türkiye 'yi en üst seviyeye taşımak " 18 : 31 - " bor madenini özelleştirmeyeceğiz " 16 : 07 - liderlerin yeni yıl mesajları15 : 42 - ' halk bankası 'nı tercih ederiz ' 14 : 43 - ' gezi parkı ' raporu tamamlandı14 : 20 - meb özel okul hedefini tutturdu14 : 02 - yeni yılda yeni yardım kampanyasıdış haberler17 : 48 - putin 'den , gül ve erdoğan 'a yeni yıl mesajı17 : 29 - filistin 'in prag büyükelçisi hayatını kaybetti17 : 24 - bulgaristan 'da asgari ücret 340 leva oldu15 : 30 - irak 'ta bu kez askerle aşiret çatıştı13 : 45 - letonya yeni yılda euro bölgesi 'ne resmen girdi13 : 33 - i̇ngiltere 'den i̇skoçya 'ya ' ayrılmayın ' mesajı10 : 46 - mısır , referandumu danıştay 'a taşıdı10 : 35 - abd , güney sudan için kaygı duyuyor10 : 15 - yunanistan ab dönem başkanlığı 'nı devraldı23 : 45 - abd 'de 40 bin yeni kanun yürürlüğe giriyor22 : 07 - kazakistan yeni yıla havai fişeklerle girdi16 : 38 - etiyopya 'da gazeteciye hapis cezası15 : 00 - 2 ülke 2014'e ' merhaba ' dedi14 : 57 - hannover 96 tayfun korkut ile anlaştı14 : 36 - sosyal yardımlardan faydalanmaları zorlaştırılıyor two people who had evidence falsified by dookhan are suing her and the employees of the crime lab and the suffolk county district attorney ’ s office in federal court for wrongful imprisonment .
few state civil claims are being pursued because massachusetts caps damages for state negligence at $ 100,000. the tollway .
the trip should cost 350 + baht on the meter if traffic minimal .
as at may 2009 many cabs will turn off the meter and ask you for 400 baht .
thats ok as only a 50 baht tip if going thru the tollways and to nana soi 4 sunhumvit .
if not they may stop and throw you out on the highway ? ? ?
keep the main shit as the taxi stand will already give the butt to the driver and try to remember his cab number .
22 / .
when paying with a 1000 baht note make it be known --hold it up or display it and say loudly 1000 baht as many times in bars the staff will say it was only 500baht and the patpong gogos are reknown for this.try to attract other foreigners attention as well to avpoid an altercation. make sure you have enough money to cover your bar bill ? ? ? all the time ..
if you need pickup from the airport cost is 200baht for 2 people and over this is extra and to & from the bus or boat 60baht charge .
all rooms are nice and large and well set out and you can hire bikes or motorcycles here as well .
chian and his staff can offer you guidance and the best places to go into the hills around chiangrai which are undoubtedly the best there is .
we drove in the outback some 10 years ago and the scenery and hill tribe visits are out of this world .
try is or let the chian guides assist you .
the government has reiterated its firmness on taking stern measures against unscrupulous traders and to enhance the war against importation and selling of second-hand undergarments which was banned a few months ago .
a delay to vital fundraising at banca monte dei paschi di siena has increased the risk that the bank has to be nationalized .
newseconomyfinancehealth carereal estateretailwealthautosearningsenergymediapoliticscommentaryspecial reportsasiaeuropemarketspre-marketsu.s.asiaeuropestockscommoditiescurrenciesbondsfundsetfsinvestingfinancial advisorspersonal financecnbc explainsportfoliowatchliststock screenerfund screenertechmobilesocial mediaenterprisegamingcybersecuritysmall businessfranchisingfinancingmanagementvideolatest videodigital workshopu.s. videoasia videoeurope videoceo interviewsanalyst interviewsfull episodesclosed captioningshowswatch livecnbc u.s.cnbc asia-pacificcnbc europecnbc worldfull episodescnbcabout cnbcsite mapvideo reprintsadvertisecareershelpcontactprivacy policyterms of serviceindependent programming reportlatest news releasesrsscertain market data provided by thomson reutersdata also provided bydata is a real-time snapshot * data is delayed at least 15 minutesglobal business and financial news , stock quotes , and market data and analysis © 2014 cnbc llc . all rights reserved.a division of nbcuniversalthe montana catholic : looking back , moving on ( october 18 , 2013 ) view .
that ’ s 100 on a normal day , but if the session , and that adds up to a lot of information as i look back , i see that we had some made all of us in his image , thus all life demands i will pray for the mcc and the next director .
the issues are not easy , and there is a lot of work to do .
let us all pray that god will of our faith .
we are healing , but it will take now a growing number of states and school districts are increasing their focus on students who are “ chronically absent ” from school — whether the absences are excused or unexcused . states have different definitions of chronic absence , but it is often defined as missing at least 10 percent of the school year for any reason .
privacy policyterms of useabout uscontact usemploymentlinksventure marketing © 2013 bhg , inc . all rights reserved . tajikistan | reliefweb tajikistan “ facts for life : nutrition and growth ” is now available in the tajik language to improve feeding practices of young children newseconomyfinancehealth carereal estateretailwealthautosearningsenergymediapoliticscommentaryspecial reportsasiaeuropemarketspre-marketsu.s.asiaeuropestockscommoditiescurrenciesbondsfundsetfsinvestingfinancial advisorspersonal financecnbc explainsportfoliowatchliststock screenerfund screenertechmobilesocial mediaenterprisegamingcybersecuritysmall businessfranchisingfinancingmanagementvideolatest videodigital workshopu.s. videoasia videoeurope videoceo interviewsanalyst interviewsfull episodesclosed captioningshowswatch livecnbc u.s.cnbc asia-pacificcnbc europecnbc worldfull episodescnbcabout cnbcsite mapvideo reprintsadvertisecareershelpcontactprivacy policyterms of serviceindependent programming reportlatest news releasesrsscertain market data provided by thomson reutersdata also provided bydata is a real-time snapshot * data is delayed at least 15 minutesglobal business and financial news , stock quotes , and market data and analysis © 2014 cnbc llc . all rights reserved.a division of nbcuniversal loading home | cina | islam | india | dottrina della chiesa | economia | libertà religiosa | vaticano 01 / 01 / 2014 vaticanopapa : in maria , madre di dio si realizza l 'augurio per un nuovo annonella messa dell 'ottava di natale , e ricorrenza della 47a giornata mondiale della pace ( " fraternità , fondamento e via per la pace " ) , papa francesco sottolinea che la fede della chiesa è modellata su quella di maria , che sotto la croce di gesù è divenuta madre di tutti , " buoni e cattivi " .
maria ha camminato " sulle stesse strade frequentate da noi , a volte difficili e oscure " .
" a lei affidiamo il nostro itinerario di fede , i desideri del nostro cuore , le nostre necessità , i bisogni del mondo intero , specialmente la fame e la sete di giustizia , di pace e di dio " .
l 'invito a pregarla come i fedeli al concilio di efeso : " madre di dio ! " . il vero augurio pieno di forza , " non una speranza illusoria , basata su fragili promesse umane " città del vaticano ( asianews ) - " l 'augurio " per un anno pieno della benedizione di dio , " si è realizzato pienamente in una donna , maria , in quanto destinata a diventare la madre di dio , e si è realizzato in 31 / 12 / 2013 vaticanopapa : un anno che finisce è un passo verso la speranza dell 'incontro con dioal te deum di ringraziamento la riflessione di papa francesco sul trascorrere del tempo nella visione cristiana .
" domandiamoci : come abbiamo vissuto il tempo che lui ci ha donato ?
lo abbiamo usato soprattutto per noi stessi , per i nostri interessi , o abbiamo saputo spenderlo anche per gli altri ?
e dio ? " .
i " contrasti " che esistono nella città di roma .
31 / 12 / 2013 cinail mito e le bugie di mao zedong opprimono ancora la cinadi bao tongil grande statista smonta la retorica sulla figura del grande timoniere mostrando i suoi delitti e la ricerca della supremazia mondiale a tutti i costi .
i milioni di morti del grande balzo in avanti ; il sangue versato con la rivoluzione culturale ; l 'oppressione degli intellettuali ; il divieto di possedere la terra per i contadini ; il divieto di sindacati per gli operai .
il mito di mao resiste ed è sostenuto dalla leadership attuale perché garantisce il potere assoluto .
un 'analisi dolorosa e spietata di bao tong , già collaboratore di zhao ziyang , per anni in prigione e ora agli arresti domiciliari per essersi schierato contro il massacro di tiananmen.31 / 12 / 2013 israele - palestinaisraele libera altri 26 detenuti palestinesi , ma legalizza 20 insediamenti in cisgiordaniail rilascio dei prigionieri è avvenuto questa notte .
poco prima della liberazione , israele ha approvato una legge per legalizzare 20 insediamenti nella valle del giordano dove vivono circa 15 mila coloni.31 / 12 / 2013 bangladeshondata di gelo in bangladesh , almeno 15 bambini mortidi sumon corrayanei distretti settentrionali l 'ondata di freddo sta colpendo le popolazioni povere : caritas e società di san vincenzo de ' paoli lanciano una raccolta di abiti caldi da donare ai bisognosi .
ospedali pieni e primo soccorso in casa , ma la temperatura continua a scendere .
30 / 12 / 2013 siriaarcivescovo di aleppo : " la chiesa aiuta tutti senza distinzioni di fede o fazioni " in due settimane i bombardamenti di regime e ribelli hanno ucciso quasi 500 persone .
a natale 12 bombe sono cadute sui quartieri cristiani della città .
mons .
antoine audo , arcivescovo caldeo di aleppo : " la popolazione è stremata da guerra , freddo e fame .
la solidarietà fra musulmani e cristiani segno di speranza per il futuro " .30 / 12 / 2013 cinaxinjiang , 6 donne costrette ad abortire : hanno violato la legge sul figlio unicononostante i grandi proclami di pechino , continuano gli abusi perpetrati dalle autorità in nome della pianificazione familiare .
una donna è riuscita a fuggire , mentre le altre hanno subito il trattamento .
il racconto di un padre : " mio figlio è nato e piangeva .
è morto un 'ora dopo il parto per il veleno che gli hanno iniettato " .
il governo locale conferma tutto .
30 / 12 / 2013 asia - italiala tenacia delle donne , dalla lotta armata in libano alle " macerie del mondo " il libro " tenacemente donne " , delle giornaliste cristiana caricato e alessandra buzzetti , racconta 12 storie , testimonianze di figure " attive in mezzo a profughi , malati di aids , lebbrosi , emarginati " .
come quella di jocelyne khoueiry , che ha lasciato il kalashnikov per fondare il movimento cattolico la libanaise-femme du 31 mai.30 / 12 / 2013 libia - italiail dramma della libia e dei migranti raccontato attraverso gli occhi del piccolo khalid " il mio nome è khalid " , romanzo di monica mondo , pubblicato da marietti , descrive in prima persona la storia di un giovane di 13 anni fuggito in italia dalla libia post-gheddafi .
la mondo racconta la libia divisa dall 'odio , la vita quotidiana dei clandestini a roma .
nella capitale khalid scopre il razzismo , ma anche la solidarietà e la carità di volontari e religiose . 30 / 12 / 2013 nepalnepal , a natale i fondamentalisti danno fuoco a una chiesa di cristopher sharmal 'attacco è avvenuto nel distretto di dhading , a pochi chilometri da kathmandu , lo scorso 23 dicembre .
distrutte anche le abitazioni di quattro convertiti al cristianesimo .
i sospetti ricadono su gruppi radicali indù , il governo minimizza l 'accaduto.30 / 12 / 2013 arabia sauditarating al massimo dalle agenzie internazionali per la banca islamica di sviluppostandard & poor , fitch e moody hanno assegnato il loro punteggio più alto sia per il lungo che per il breve termine alla banca saudita .
per tutte e tre gli istituti ciò denota " stabilità " , " affidabilità " e " basso credit risk " della idb .
30 / 12 / 2013 bangladeshbangladesh nel caos : 2 morti e oltre 1000 arresti alla marcia per la democraziadi nozrul islamnon si ferma la manifestazione indetta dal bangladesh nationalist party ( bnp ) , nonostante il dispiegamento di migliaia di agenti delle forze dell 'ordine .
la capitale è isolata .
sostenitori del governo hanno fatto irruzione nel palazzo della corte suprema e picchiato alcuni avvocati " vicini " al bnp .
fonti di asianews : " il primo ministro vuole dare prova della sua forza , invece di risolvere la crisi " .
30 / 12 / 2013 vietnamcattolici vietnamiti aggrediti mentre portano doni di natale agli orfanidi joseph dange ' accaduto nella provincia di kontum , dove un gruppo di volontari è stato bloccato dalla polizia e costretto a tornare indietro .
uno degli assaliti , torturato dal capo del partito comunista locale , è finito in ospedale per molteplici lesioni interne .
30 / 12 / 2013 coreaarcivescovo di seoul : con l 'arrivo del nuovo anno preghiamo per la corea del nordnel suo messaggio per capodanno , mons .
andrea yeom soo-jung invita i cattolici coreani a mettere da parte " avidità ed egoismo " per scoprire che " una vita vissuta nell 'amore è la chiave per la felicità .
seguiamo tutti l 'esempio della santa famiglia " .
30 / 12 / 2013 turchiala " notte di san bartolomeo " dell 'islam politico turcodi nat da polisi rivolgimenti nel governo e le accuse della polizia contro esponenti politici sono conseguenza dello scontro tra i seguaci del premier erdogan e quelli dell 'imam gulen , fondatore della comunità islamica hizmet , un tempo alleati .
una fase politica critica , dalle conseguenze imprevedibili e pericolose .
altri articoli30 / 12 / 2013 russiaterrorismo a volgograd : almeno 26 morti in 24 ore29 / 12 / 2013 vaticanopapa : la santa famiglia come i profughi .
la preghiera per il sinodo28 / 12 / 2013 libanobeirut , mistero sui mandanti dell 'omicidio chatah , l 'anti-hezbollah28 / 12 / 2013 coreacorea del nord , cristiani celebrano di nascosto il natale in tunnel sotterranei28 / 12 / 2013 cinapiù leggera la politica del figlio unico .
da oggi dovrebbero chiudere i laojiao di bernardo cervellera28 / 12 / 2013 bangladeshnatale in bangladesh , la missione è più forte delle violenze politiche di franco cagnasso * 28 / 12 / 2013 egittoportavoce chiesa cattolica : " la popolazione egiziana è esasperata dal terrorismo islamico " 28 / 12 / 2013 indonesiabogor : natale all 'aperto per i fedeli della yasmin church , derubati della chiesa dagli islamisti27 / 12 / 2013 sri lankasri lanka : portare il natale tra i bambini indù , ancora vittime della guerra civile di melani manel perera27 / 12 / 2013 siria-m.orientegregorio iii : cristiani del medio oriente , non emigrate ! 27 / 12 / 2013 nepalnepal , natale " collettivo " per cristiani , indù e buddisti di christopher sharma27 / 12 / 2013 myanmararcivescovo di yangon : l ’ invito del papa alla “ fraternità ” , unica via per la pace in myanmar di francis khoo thwe27 / 12 / 2013 bangladeshbangladesh : natale sereno per i cristiani , ma all 'ombra del ' terrorismo ' di nozrul islam27 / 12 / 2013 palestina neppure a natale i cristiani di gaza possono visitare betlemme o festeggiare in città in evidenzaitalia - asia la gioia del vangelo e di nataledi bernardo cervelleral 'esortazione apostolica di papa francesco è di grande conforto per chi cerca di costruire ponti con l 'altro , senza paura di andare contro il sentire comune .
la " luce mite di cristo " riesce a confondere e infine annullare la luce artificiale del mondo .
gli auguri di asianews ai suoi lettori e amici , che possano divenire " collaboratori " del salvatore che nasce . vaticanopapa : la fraternità fondamento e via per la pace contro egoismi , sfruttamento e sopraffazionimessaggio di francesco per la giornata mondiale della pace .
fondamento della fraternità è la comune paternità di dio .
la " globalizzazione dell 'indifferenza " .
il numero sempre crescente di interconnessioni e di comunicazioni " ci rende vicini , ma non ci rende fratelli " .
" gli accordi internazionali e le leggi nazionali , pur essendo necessari ed altamente auspicabili , non sono sufficienti da soli a porre l 'umanità al riparo dal rischio dei conflitti armati .
è necessaria una conversione dei cuori che permetta a ciascuno di riconoscere nell 'altro un fratello " .
" il succedersi delle crisi economiche deve portare agli opportuni ripensamenti dei modelli di sviluppo economico e a un cambiamento negli stili di vita " .
dossierl ’ anno della fede e il martirio di p .
fausto tentoriogiovanni paolo ii è beato [ visualizza tutti i dossier ] top 1027 / 12 / 2013 myanmararcivescovo di yangon : l ’ invito del papa alla “ fraternità ” , unica via per la pace in myanmardi francis khoo thwe27 / 12 / 2013 sri lankasri lanka : portare il natale tra i bambini indù , ancora vittime della guerra civiledi melani manel perera26 / 12 / 2013 vaticanopapa : la festa di santo stefano primo martire dissolve l 'immagine " fiabesca " del natale28 / 12 / 2013 cinapiù leggera la politica del figlio unico .
da oggi dovrebbero chiudere i laojiaodi bernardo cervellera25 / 12 / 2013 vaticanopapa : natale , gloria a dio misericordioso e pace agli uomini tormentati da guerre e violenze28 / 12 / 2013 coreacorea del nord , cristiani celebrano di nascosto il natale in tunnel sotterranei27 / 12 / 2013 palestina neppure a natale i cristiani di gaza possono visitare betlemme o festeggiare in città29 / 12 / 2013 vaticanopapa : la santa famiglia come i profughi .
la preghiera per il sinodo28 / 12 / 2013 egittoportavoce chiesa cattolica : " la popolazione egiziana è esasperata dal terrorismo islamico " 27 / 12 / 2013 turchiabartolomeo : da 2013 anni gesù viene perseguitato da erodi contemporanei di nat da polis asianews e ' anche un mensile ! l ’ abbonamento al mensile di asianews non costa nulla : viene dato gratis a chiunque ne faccia richiesta .
copyright â © 2003 asianews c.f. 00889190153 tutti i diritti riservati : ã ¨ permesso l 'uso personale dei contenuti di questo sito web solo a fini non commerciali .
l 'utilizzo per riprodurre , pubblicare , vendere e distribuire puã ² avvenire solo previo accordo con l 'editore .
le foto presenti su asianews.it sono prese in larga parte da internet e quindi valutate di pubblico dominio .
se i soggetti o gli autori avessero qualcosa in contrario alla pubblicazione , non avranno che da segnalarlo alla redazione che provvederã prontamente alla rimozione delle immagini utilizzate la luce che ci offre il mondoè una luce artificiale.forse forte , più forte di quella di gesù ... forte come un fuoco di artificio , come un flash della fotografia.invece la luce di gesù è una luce mite , è una luce tranquilla , è una luce di pace.è come la luce della notte di natale : senza pretese.è così : si offre e dà pace ... è una luce mite , con la forza della mitezza ; è una luce che parla al cuoreed è anche una luce che offre la croce.papa francesco asianews augura ad amici e lettori un buon natale e un felice anno 2014 the representative of the organization for security and cooperation in europe on freedom of the media , dunja mijatović , recently praised the kyrgyz authorities for “ creating a favorable media environment . ”
however , she fell short of specifying what exact “ favorable environment ” she meant in a country , which lived through the horrors of two “ revolutions ” and the blood chilling interethnic carnage .
what do such elevated praises testify to — the speaker ’ s incompetence in said matters or de-jour hypocrisy ?
the head of the state communications agency ( sca ) of kyrgyzstan , mr. almaz kadyrkulov , told the vecherniy bishkek newspaper that local isps “ have the right ” to unblock access to the fergana news agency ’ s website : “ [ communications ] operators have the right to unblock [ access to ] the website , and i don ’ t care at all . ”
mr. kadyrkulov said these words after a local court ruled to stop hearings on blocked access due to the expiration of the statute of limitations .
uzbek separatism – fiction of politicians or threatening reality in kyrgyzstan ?
kyrgyzstan : who is who ?
the deputies " modeled " the cabinet council fighting for ourselves , we are fighting against … ?
on the role of ethnicity in the tragic events in southern kyrgyzstan kyrghyz and uzbeks in osh : just another local interethnic conflict ?
the war with no winners : the most difficult is to forgive and live on « bakiev ’ s case » – the tragedy of one family and one country the alleged murderer of gennadiy pavlyuk is the officer of kyrgyz secret service how to make bishkek more comfortable for visitors and citizens ?
kyrgyzstan : who will take the bishkek house of askar akaev ?
outstanding schemers .
moscow and bishkek played out the manas intrigue to the end the pentagon goes out of its way to retain the airbase in kyrgyzstan kyrgyzstan : the opposition forces demand the resignation of kurmanbek bakiev kyrgyzstan : is president kurmanbek bakiyev trading the us army for russian dollars ?
new chairman of the kyrgyz parliament : defector , smuggler , or " terrorist " ?
the coming of spring is to be celebrated without the president for the second time in the history of sovereign kyrgyzstan look who is here !
a brief review of the new parliament of kyrgyzstan kyrgyzstan : president bakiyev 's ak jol is the leader of the parliamentary race action in memory of journalist alisher saipov to take place in bishkek on december 4 “ because of increases in bike use and people walking and public transit , there ’ s been a big decrease in the number of cars on campus , ” said mike waddington , a professor in the school of geography and earth sciences .
waddington is the associate director of the mcmaster centre for climate change and one of the professors leading the development of macmarsh .
“ we view it as not so much replacing a parking lot as creating education and research opportunities , as well as being a prettier entrance to the university . ”
a greener welcome to mac is not just a tangential benefit of macmarsh .
it would also help to fulfill mcmaster ’ s long-held goal of minimizing impact on cootes paradise , environmentally and aesthetically .
as for the marsh ’ s effects on its residential neighbours , that ’ s a facet of the project that has to be examined carefully .
“ it ’ s a “ way of linking up , let ’ s say , ‘ disparate ’ forms of knowledge and saying ‘ hey these are all part of our shared story about this place ’ . ”
what are some of the reasons that a post would be removed ?
prairie public and ducks unlimited have teamed to produce a documentary about one of the most threatened biomes on the planet — a biome that is in our own backyard .
prairie public ’ s 30-minute dvd “ the bank of north dakota ” chronicles the bank ’ s fascinating history and reviews its key role in financing the state ’ s economic future .
considered view : the photography of wayne gudmundson dvd plus two bonus docs most people have heard that it ’ s “ rockin ’ in the bakken , ” but what does that mean to the residents of the williston basin ?
faces of the oil patch describes the new visage of the oil patch — the areas in and around williston , watford city , tioga , stanley , new town , parshall , and fort berthold — in the words of the people who live and work in these communities .
call or see website for info to secure a place in line . )
also , check out pictures of the new pawtucket river bridge : north providence - for one day , all the treatments , all the pain , all the sadness felt almost like an afterthought as 10-year-old kj ricci got the visit of a lifetime .
art cashin of ubs leads nyse traders in singing " wait til the sun shines , nellie , " with cnbc 's bob pisani .
gold slides to end the year .
the case for a brighter year for bullion , with the lindsey group 's peter boockvar , cnbc 's jackie deangelis and the futures now traders , anthony grisanti at the nymex and brian stutland in florida .
more tech job openings are expected in the new year , but will companies be overpaying for talent ?
newseconomyfinancehealth carereal estateretailwealthautosearningsenergymediapoliticscommentaryspecial reportsasiaeuropemarketspre-marketsu.s.asiaeuropestockscommoditiescurrenciesbondsfundsetfsinvestingfinancial advisorspersonal financecnbc explainsportfoliowatchliststock screenerfund screenertechmobilesocial mediaenterprisegamingcybersecuritysmall businessfranchisingfinancingmanagementvideolatest videodigital workshopu.s. videoasia videoeurope videoceo interviewsanalyst interviewsfull episodesclosed captioningshowswatch livecnbc u.s.cnbc asia-pacificcnbc europecnbc worldfull episodescnbcabout cnbcsite mapvideo reprintsadvertisecareershelpcontactprivacy policyterms of serviceindependent programming reportlatest news releasesrsscertain market data provided by thomson reutersdata also provided bydata is a real-time snapshot * data is delayed at least 15 minutesglobal business and financial news , stock quotes , and market data and analysis © 2014 cnbc llc . all rights reserved.a division of nbcuniversal世界新聞網-english news " japanese equities will provide the greatest return of all global stocks in 2014 , " nomura said in a note .
" fast money " traders lay out the bull and bear cases for whirlpool .
officials sit in the courtroom on the first day of morsi ’ s trial in this image taken from video provided by the interior ministry .
after two disruptions , the presiding judge adjourned the trial for two months .
it is set to resume jan .
8 morsi supporters protest outside the court on the first day of his trial in cairo .
a supporter of the muslim brotherhood stands in front of a barbed-wire barricade at the cairo police academy .
rss terms of serviceain alyaqeen | ain al yaqeen weekly arab political magazine in its session held under the chairmanship of custodian of the two holy mosques king abdullah bin abdulaziz al saud monday , the first day of the month of safar 1433 ah corresponding to 26th of december 2011 at al-yamamah palace in riyadh , the cabinet approved the state 's general budget for the new fiscal year 1433 / 1434 ah .
then , the custodian of the two holy mosques king abdullah bin abdulaziz al saud delivered a speech to his brothers and sons , the citizens , in which he announced the budget .
following is the text of the king 's speech which was delivered by secretary general of the cabinet abdulrahman bin mohammed al sadhan : praise be to allah and prayer and peace be upon our prophet mohammad and his family and companions .
then , custodian of the two holy mosques king abdullah bin abdulaziz al saud directed the ministers to work hard and faithfully to implement the terms of this budget fully to achieve the comfort and well-being of citizens in all areas of life .
the minister of culture and information dr. abdulaziz bin mohieddin khoja said that the custodian of the two holy mosques king abdullah bin abdulaziz al saud expressed thanks to allah almighty for the uncountable blessings allah bestowed on this country as well as for this budget including all good for this country and its people .
the custodian of the two holy mosques urged all to thank allah almighty for the bounties he bestowed on this country and directed all officials to work for the service of the religion and country , feeling the burden of responsibility he bears on his shoulder .
the custodian of the two holy mosques congratulated them , washing them all success .
for their part , they expressed thanks and appreciation of the custodian of the two holy mosques on the royal trust .
assaf said that what has been submitted to the cabinet has three aspects : the first is the performance of the budget this year , the second is related to the estimate of the revenues and its approved expenditures and the third and last is the performance of the whole national economy .
the more the demand , the better off the vendor : golden rule of oriental bazaars an apd spokeswoman told kob the department could not comment on the lawsuit because the case is now tied up in court .
a 37-year-old man was badly bitten on the foot by a shark on christmas day in northern new caledonia , police and firefighters said today . ( 12 / 26 / 2013 9 : 12 : 51 am ) safe environment > child lures preventionclick here to enter child lures prevention web site immigration reform and the “ pathway to citizenship ” ( by moe wosepka ) medicaid reform , expansion or rejection : what is the answer ? ( by moe wosepka ) at the legislature ’ s midpoint , how are we doing ? ( by moe wosepka ) a lenten journey to the foot of the cross ( by moe wosepka ) consistency is key for catholics in the public square ( by moe wosepka ) privacy policyterms of useabout uscontact usemploymentlinksventure marketing © 2013 bhg , inc . all rights reserved . sitemap timorese sue australia in un court for illegal intel raid turkey fraud probe : tip of the iceberg ?
al jazeera a wide-ranging corruption scandal has engulfed the highest levels of the turkish government . | prime minister recep tayyip erdogan hasreshuffled his cabinet , and re ... ( photo : ap ) erdogan bayraktar photos recep tayyip erdogan turkish corruption wikipedia : recep tayyip erdoan spain 's anabel medina garrigues says her sore knees may require an injection in order for her to play out the hopman cup . ( 12 / 29 / 2013 1 : 35 : 55 am ) " ghost of rwanda " haunts as us envoy visits c.african republic two decades out of ghastly violence , rwanda sings of love the athena-fidus satellite is readied for arianespace first heavy-lift mission of 2014 christmas app downloads set new records but signal a maturing marketventurebeat - by dean takahashichristmas app download growth slowingwall street journal ( blog ) highly cited : christmas sees continued spike in ios app downloads and revenuethe next web - by kaylene hongsee all 26 sourcesrelated christmas website available to you subject to the following terms and conditions .
by using the site you agree to these conditions .
if you ensure you are aware of any changes made by the km media group note : use of the website and the submission by you of any obligations set out in our privacy policy .
you must read the policy .
if you do not agree to the terms of the policy you should operated by a third party you may be asked to supply information content in any way except for your own personal , non-commercial also agree not to deep-link or frame to the site for any purpose , technology now known or hereafter developed .
in addition , you waive any and all moral rights in such text or graphics. of such material in the site and interactive services is owned by construed as conferring by implication or otherwise any licence or km media group limited is not responsible for and does not give any warranties regarding any such web sites or services and is not responsible for or liable in relation to the content or your use of ( or to third party products and services ) , is provided " as is " and on an " as available " basis without any representations or any kind from or in connection with the use of kent online .
6.1 due to the nature of the internet , km media operation of the site and interactive services .
all liability of km for any loss whatsoever arising from your use of or inability to endeavours to ensure that any information it holds on you is kept secure .
however , due to the nature of the internet , km media group we do not actively moderate , monitor or edit contributions to the reader comments but we may intervene and take such action as we think necessary .
if you have any concerns over the contents on our conditions and notices under which kentonline is offered .
you are to any interactive services provided on the site immediately for you agree to fully reimburse km media group limited for all losses , whatsoever suffered or incurred by the km media group limited as a consequence of your breach of this agreement and your use of the km media group limited shall not be liable to the other for any loss or damage which may be suffered by any party due to any cause wales and you hereby submit to the exclusive jurisdiction of the looking for a new career ?
you have come to the right place . browse through our job postings the diocese of des moines produces two radio shows that air on catholic radio stations in and around the diocese .
yıldırım slammed what he called a campaign of & ldquo ; insults & rdquo ; and & ldquo ; defamation & rdquo ; against turkish islamic scholar fethullah gülen and the hizmet movement , criticizing the government 's description of hizmet as a & ldquo ; gang . & rdquo ; madagascar / présidentielle : rajaonarimampianina toujours en tête après dépouillement dans les 2 / 3 des bureaux madagascar madagascar / présidentielle : rajaonarimampianina toujours en tête après dépouillement dans les 2 / 3 des bureaux antananarivo , 26 décembre 2013 ( afp ) - le candidat du pouvoir , hery rajaonarimampianina , était toujours en tête de l 'élection présidentielle à madagascar avec 51,81 % des suffrages après dépouillement des bulletins dans les deux tiers des bureaux de vote , selon les résultats provisoires jeudi .
antandrohomby , 24 décembre 2013 ( irin ) - en 2013 , la saison de la peste bubonique est arrivée plus tôt qu 'à l 'habitude à madagascar .
il semble aussi que la prévalence d 'une souche plus mortelle de la maladie ait augmenté .
entre septembre et décembre , le ministère de la santé a rapporté 42 décès connus et 84 cas de peste dans quatre districts sur les 112 que compte le pays .
les cas ont été enregistrés dans divers lieux géographiques : mandritsara , dans le nord , soanierana ivongo , dans le nord-ouest , ikongo , dans le sud-ouest , et tsiroanomandidy , dans les hauts plateaux centraux .
madagascar le candidat du pouvoir en tête , un scrutin " libre et crédible " antananarivo , 22 décembre 2013 ( afp ) - en tête d 'après des résultats très partiels , le candidat du pouvoir , hery rajaonarimampianina , s 'est dit dimanche sûr de sa victoire à l 'élection présidentielle à madagascar , que les observateurs ont jugée libre et crédible .
" les chiffres le disent , c 'est moi , il n 'y a pas d 'ambiguïté , j 'ai gagné !
c 'est vrai , ce n 'est pas officiel , je parle de tendances , et sur la base de ces tendances , j 'ai gagné " , a déclaré m. rajaonarimampianina à l 'afp .
madagascar l & # 039 ; onu salue le bon déroulement du deuxième tour des élections présidentielles 20 décembre 2013 – le secrétaire général des nations unies , ban ki-moon , a félicité vendredi le peuple de madagascar , la commission electorale et le gouvernement malgache pour leur contribution active et leur participation aux élections présidentielle et législative qui se sont tenues ce jour .
madagascar communiqué de la mission d ’ observation électorale de la francophonie à l ’ occasion du second tour de l ’ élection présidentielle et des élections législatives à madagascar download pdf ( 353.48 kb ) déclaration liminaire de mme louise fréchette , chef de la mission d ’ observation électorale de la francophonie à madagascar dans le cadre de l ’ accompagnement du processus électoral de sortie de crise à madagascar , et en réponse à la demande de la commission electorale nationale indépendante pour la transition ( ceni-t ) , le secrétaire général de la francophonie , m. abdou diouf , a dépêché une mission d ’ observation électorale à l ’ occasion du second tour de l ’ élection présidentielle et des élections législatives du 20 décembre 2013 .
madagascar les deux camps crient victoire et s & # 039 ; accusent de fraudes antananarivo , 21 décembre 2013 ( afp ) - les deux candidats en lice au deuxième tour de la présidentielle à madagascar criaient victoire samedi au lendemain du scrutin , s 'accusant mutuellement de fraudes , bien que les observateurs n 'aient pas encore fait état de manipulations .
a 17h30 ( 14h30 gmt ) , la commission électorale indépendante ( cenit ) avait publié des résultats ne portant que sur 641 bureaux de vote sur 20.001 .
madagascar madagascar a voté dans le calme pour désigner président et députés antananarivo , 20 décembre 2013 ( afp ) - les malgaches ont voté dans le calme vendredi pour élire leur président et leurs députés au cours du premier scrutin démocratique organisé depuis le renversement du président marc ravalomanana en 2009 , les observateurs indépendants n 'ayant pas confirmé les accusations de fraudes des uns et des autres .
le scrutin s 'est déroulé sans incident majeur , selon la cenit ( commission électorale ) et des observateurs contactés par l 'afp , selon lesquels la participation ne serait pas très élevée .
les opérations de lutte font reculer la menace de la faim 19 décembre 2013 , rome – les opérations de lutte se poursuivent à madagascar contre une invasion du criquet migrateur malgache , un insecte vorace qui menace les cultures de riz et de maïs et , partant , la sécurité alimentaire et les moyens d 'existence de millions de personnes .
chirlane mccray and anni kuan .
( photo from anni kuan via world journal ) it could pay for 2,000 mcdonalds apple pies for every single american . & ldquo ; the workshop was very insightful .
our knowledge on the effects of discriminating against people living with hiv has expanded by far .
we now know the pros and cons of the discrimination , & rdquo ; one of the religious leaders , yahaya yussuph told the guardian .
microsoft word has an assamese clonethe hinduvolunteers build ms word 's assamese clone , jahnabidomain-bsee all 24 sourcesrelated word processors thayer v. planned parenthood of the heartland : planned parenthood in middle of fraud and abuse caseby montana news riverton wyoming man pleads guilty to involuntary manslaughter and aiding and abettingby montana news the odds weren ’ t in favor of jimmy ’ s pizza / longshots on the first day of the mcquades softball tournament .
a bird pooped on one player and another player broke her nose during the team ’ s first game .
jpl battled through poop and injuries to capture the mcquades rec three division title .
we use grapeshot as a contextual targeting technology , allowing us to create custom groups of stories outside out of our usual site navigation .
grapeshot stores the categories of story you have been exposed to .
their privacy policy and opt out option can be accessed here . irin | africa | west africa | sao tome and principe newseconomyfinancehealth carereal estateretailwealthautosearningsenergymediapoliticscommentaryspecial reportsasiaeuropemarketspre-marketsu.s.asiaeuropestockscommoditiescurrenciesbondsfundsetfsinvestingfinancial advisorspersonal financecnbc explainsportfoliowatchliststock screenerfund screenertechmobilesocial mediaenterprisegamingcybersecuritysmall businessfranchisingfinancingmanagementvideolatest videodigital workshopu.s. videoasia videoeurope videoceo interviewsanalyst interviewsfull episodesclosed captioningshowswatch livecnbc u.s.cnbc asia-pacificcnbc europecnbc worldfull episodescnbcabout cnbcsite mapvideo reprintsadvertisecareershelpcontactprivacy policyterms of serviceindependent programming reportlatest news releasesrsscertain market data provided by thomson reutersdata also provided bydata is a real-time snapshot * data is delayed at least 15 minutesglobal business and financial news , stock quotes , and market data and analysis © 2014 cnbc llc . all rights reserved.a division of nbcuniversal costa news - latest news as reported in cbnews last week , meps are trying to get rid of loopholes used by airlines to wriggle out of their responsibilities towards passengers.as the number & # 8230 ; the new year is set to get off to a dark start after it was announced yesterday ( thursday ) that the cost of electricity will go up by & # 8230 ; milovan " mel " pesukic is wanted by greater sudbury police on several charges .
photo supplied virbhadra singh took bribe from power co , arun jaitley writes to manmohan singhdaily news & analysisarun jaitley accuses virbhadra singh of graft , writes to pm manmohan singheconomic timessee all 283 sourcesrelated virbhadra singh economic timessee realtime coveragepresident pranab mukherjee , pm manmohan singh greet nation on new yeareconomic times- & lrm ; dec 31 , 2013 & lrm ; president pranab mukherjee , vice president hamid ansari and prime minister manmohan singh today greeted the nation on the eve of new year.related pranab mukherjee time for a new beginning pm in new year messagejagran postpresident , pm greet nation on new year evetimes of indiasee all 31 sourcesrelated pranab mukherjee follow manmohan singh 's example on how to run coalition : sushilkumar shinde ... daily news & analysissushilkumar shinde to arvind kejriwal : follow manmohan singh 's example on ... india todaysee all 22 sourcesrelated arvind kejriwal manmohan to contact tn on holding indo-sri lankan fishermen talksthe hindufishermen ask pm to get jailed counterparts in lanka releaseddeccan heraldsee all 290 sourcesrelated sri lanka manmohan singh writes to putin , condemns volgograd terror attacksaninewsmanmohan singh condemns terror attacks in russiajagran postsee all 4,244 sourcesrelated russia national cancer centre to be set up : manmohanthe hindumanmohan to lay foundation stone of cancer hospital at mullanpur todayindian expresssee all 37 sourcesrelated cancer the storm response fit nicely into christie ’ s story line that he was leading a bipartisan “ new jersey comeback ” from the fiscal disaster of the recession as well as a natural disaster .
the federal shutdown has given christie an opportunity to burnish the bipartisan image many analysts say will be needed for a republican to win the white house in 2016 .
“ everything we ’ ve done has been a bipartisan accomplishment , ” christie said in a campaign tv commercial .
“ it ’ s my job to make sure that compromise happens .
you see , as long as you stick to your principles , compromise isn ’ t a dirty word . ”
“ people used to laugh about new jersey , ” lt. gov. kim guadagno said recently , according to the newark star-ledger .
“ they used to say snooki and the sopranos .
now , go anywhere in the country … and you say , ‘ what do you think of new jersey now ? ’
and they will say , ‘ new jersey ?
i love that governor . ’ ”
tic welcomes investors to yearning sectors such as processing industries in order to add value to agricultural products .
the diocese of des moines is committed tothe protection of youngpeople in the church .
please see below for information on how to report sexual abuse .
bogotanos tomaron las calles para expresar su respaldo a alcalde petro cientos de bogotanos participaron este fin de semana de varias manifestaciones en apoyo al alcalde de esa ciudad gustavo petro , quien fue destituido el pasado 9 de diciembre por el procurador general de colombia , alejandro ordóñez el presidente de rusia , vladimir putin , sostuvo este lunes una reunión con el titular del servicio federal de seguridad , alexander bortnikov , para obtener información sobre el atentado terrorista ocurrido en volgogrado , el segundo en menos de 24 horas el presidente colombiano sancionó una ley enfocada a crear un fondo que permitirá contratar abogados de primer nivel para la defensa de militares sometidos a procesos judiciales , tanto en el país como en el exterior presidente de bolivia asumirá presidencia del g-77 la próxima semana recientemente , el jefe de estado boliviano , evo morales , manifestó su aspiración de organizar para junio de 2014 una cumbre del g-77 más china , para celebrar los 50 años de la fundación de ese organismo multilateral al menos cinco millones de italianos viven en situación de pobreza al menos cinco millones de personas en italia viven en condiciones de pobreza , cifra que significa el doble de hace cinco años , reveló este lunes el informe cohesión social del instituto italiano de estadísticas china financiará construcción de ferrocarril interoceánico para conectar bolivia con el pacífico el gobierno de china tiene interés en financiar el ferrocarril interoceánico para conectar bolivia con el pacífico , mediante 1.500 kilómetros de vía desde puerto suárez hasta ilo , perú , informó este sábado el presidente de la nación suramericana , evo morales mediante la reforma legal , las parejas urbanas en las que uno de los cónyuges sea hijo único podrán tener un segundo vástago , ya que antes esto sólo se permitía si ni la madre ni el padre tenían hermanos unicef denunció ola de violencia a niños de república centroafricana revelan que nsa espió comisión nacional de seguridad de méxico la inactividad física es el cuarto factor de riesgo de muerte en el mundo servicios contáctenosgoloading ... > > view all results for " " enter multiple symbols separated by commaslondon quotes now availablego starbucks is looking for thousands of good men - and women .
small merchants and those in the e-commerce space are feeling let down by the initial hype of groupon .
is the daily coupon model dead ?
newseconomyfinancehealth carereal estateretailwealthautosearningsenergymediapoliticscommentaryspecial reportsasiaeuropemarketspre-marketsu.s.asiaeuropestockscommoditiescurrenciesbondsfundsetfsinvestingfinancial advisorspersonal financecnbc explainsportfoliowatchliststock screenerfund screenertechmobilesocial mediaenterprisegamingcybersecuritysmall businessfranchisingfinancingmanagementvideolatest videodigital workshopu.s. videoasia videoeurope videoceo interviewsanalyst interviewsfull episodesclosed captioningshowswatch livecnbc u.s.cnbc asia-pacificcnbc europecnbc worldfull episodescnbcabout cnbcsite mapvideo reprintsadvertisecareershelpcontactprivacy policyterms of serviceindependent programming reportlatest news releasesrsscertain market data provided by thomson reutersdata also provided bydata is a real-time snapshot * data is delayed at least 15 minutesglobal business and financial news , stock quotes , and market data and analysis © 2014 cnbc llc . all rights reserved.a division of nbcuniversal jordan news headlines on december 19 , 2013 bluforest inc. met with representatives of the mancomunidad del norte del ecuador and representatives of the f.e.d. foundation who signed a & # 8230 ; image taken on dec .
25 , 2013 shows a person standing at the " cabellera de la virgen " waterfall , in tungurahua province , ecuador .
the waterfall can be admired from the center of the city of & # 8230 ; winnipeglawyers are good and bad but filing for litigation can take time & money 2 / .
if you are a a tourist and have a timeframe to leave then you must decide if the case is quick or drawn out .
you may be up for many court appearances or your lawyers and frustrated at the timeframes as these are slow. so always wait for any further payment to the lawyer in case of default .
7 / .
check from other foreigners or freinds about who is a good lawyer .
if you have time go on one of the forums and ask .
useful tel numbers ] [ pattaya tourist more handy tips ] [ pattaya best restaurants & buffets ] [ pattaya bars ] [ pattaya jet ski hire ] [ pattaya hire cars / bikes ] [ pattaya car / motorcycle reg office ] [ buying cars in thailand ] [ buying motorcycles in thailand ] [ pattaya bike week 2009 ] [ bang saen bike week 2008 ] [ fishing news ] [ check out bang saen ] [ more bang saen pics ] all the info you need to know about travel to the phillipines dultuh mn 55805-1897 the catholic mirror : : diocese of des moines jerusalem — a huge majority of israeli lawmakers has signed a petition calling for the release of convicted spy jonathan pollard imprisoned in the united states .
the petition , signed by 106 out of israel ’ s 120 lawmakers , was handed over to israeli president shimon peres on wednesday .
15.methodically , if not quietly , miri regev is changing the israeli consensus attorney sentenced to life in prison for murder consipiracy and racketeering offensesby montana news billings woman rachell tina marks allegedly scams elderly man due to her own financial problemsby montana news students gather to pray at annual " see you at the pole " gatheringby montana news also is next for the three graduates of st andrew it is an instrument of struggle in order to know on in the interview to say , “ the wisdom of discernment stampa , say will be the ushering in of a new administrative they have come to be known , in response to the not only my decision , but it is the result of the will of the cardinals , as it was expressed in the i want to see that this is a real , not ceremonial with mercy .
but if the lord does not tire of broadchurch star olivia colman snubs downton abbey role ? entertainmentwisebroadchurch actress olivia colman wanted to be in downton abbey but was ' put ... mirror.co.uksee all 21 sourcesrelated olivia colman letting things go as they are is only hurting the town and awhole lot of feelings .
if you do let things stay the way they are , so , do us all a giant favor and make some i hope that clears up some things for you and give you and understanding of why posts do not require a signature .
welcome to thewebpagefor thedepartmentof catechesis , r.c.i.a. and lay apostolate of the diocese ofduluth .
" the definitive aim of catechesis isto put people not only in touch but in communion , in intimacy , withjesus christ : only he can lead us to the love of the father in the spirit and make us share in the life of the trinity . "
( john paul ii , on catechesis in our time # 5 ) catechesis is not only for children .
it is for every human person god ever created , and will create .
the goal of catechesis is to put all people into intimate communion with jesus christ .
this means two things .
first , all catechesis is sacramental preparation .
in the eucharist we receive jesus christ , fully god and fully man , body , blood , soul and divinity .
there can be no more intimate communion with christ this side of the grave .
second , the definitive aim of catechesis is to lead people to a life of holiness in order to live in the midst of the life-giving love of the trinity for all eternity .
yes , the goal of catechesis is to be a saint .
all human persons have a right to all that god intends , and thedepartment of catechesis , r.c.i.a. and lay apostolateis dedicated to forming catechetical leaders and catechists in this mission .
catechist prayeryou , o god , are my strength , my patience , my light and my councel .
it is you who make responsive to me the students confided to my care .
abandon me not to myself for one moment .
for my own conduct and for that of my students , grant me the spirit of wisdom and understanding , the spirit of knowledge and piety , the spirit of holy fear of you , and an ardent zeal to procure your glory .
i unite my effortsto those of jesus christ , the master teacher , andi beg the most blessed virgin , st. joseph and pope st. pius x , to assist me in the exercise of my teaching ministry .
amen .
smalltownpapers - the mountaineer , big sandy montana diocese of duluth - catholic church in northeastern minnesota click here for a referral form to accompany you application même son propre camp ne le comprend plus , tellement il brille par un déficit criant de communication et une passivité propre à un octogénaire .
c 'est l 'extérieur , entendez ceux qui le maintiennent là où il est qui doivent le tenez !
après la défaite cuisante du m23 , les autres groupes rebelles se sont défaits et rendus en masse .
ces ex-rebelles , jusqu 'aujourd 'hui , ne sont pas pris en charge par le gouvernement de kabila .
il n 'existe aucun plan prévu pour leur démobilisation et réinsertion dans la vie sociale .
si les dispositions ne sont pas prises à temps , ils reprendront inévitablement le chemin de la brousse pour d 'autres rebellions .
c 'est monsieur kobler , le chef de la monusco qui vient rappeler au gouvernement de prendre des dispositions pour encadrer ces gens .
l 'opinion se rappellera que , quelque temps après sa prise des fonctions , parlant de la sécurité nationale , monsieur kobler a rappelé que c 'était à la rdc premièrement d 'assurer la sécurité des hommes et de leurs biens sur toute l 'étendue du territoire national .
ce qui revient à dire que si insécurité , il y a , c 'est que le gouvernement ne joue pas son rôle !
et qui est le chef du le 23 octobre dernier , monsieur kabila annonce la composition d 'un nationales .
jusqu 'aujourd 'hui , le dit gouvernement se fait attendre .
pour lui , conditionnait le financement de la construction d 'inga iii aux reformes politiques en rdc .
par ailleurs , plusieurs résolutions dont fameuse résolution 2098 d 'addis-abeba insistent sur ces reformes que doit entreprendre kabila pour désamorcer la crise issue des élections de 2011 .
le roi fainéant dort toujours .
on se rappellera qu 'après la débandade du m23 , c 'étaient messieurs paluku , gouverneur du nord-kivu et kobler de la monusco qui s 'étaient rendus dans les zones libérées pour consoler la population et faire un état des lieux .
monsieur kabila , " commandant suprême " s 'y est rendu un mois plus tard !
qui dirige la rdc ?
le 13 décembre dernier , kabila s 'est rendu dans le kasai oriental pour une " visite d 'inspection " .
un cahier de charge l 'attendait avec des promesses non tenues faites lors de sa campagne électorale de 2011 .
nous ne serons pas étonnés d 'apprendre qu 'il se rendra dans le kasai occidental pour le suivi des travaux vous avez dit que le congo est à la dérive ?
le roi fainéant très narcissique dort et prend ses rêves pour des réalités .
" je leur ai donné les cinq chantiers du président , la révolution de la modernité , etc .
que veulent-ils encore de moi ?
a multi-millionaire who has ploughed in cash to help transform a part of kent has been honoured in the new year 's list .
an app , believed to be the first of its kind in the uk , is advising patients where to go to ease pressure at a kent hospital .
denise roth barber , managing director of the institute , said : “ what you do know is that the industry was definitely working the legislature .
whether or not that had an influence on the lawmakers ’ decisions is not known . ”
in each of the states where a liquor tax hike was proposed , lobbyists went to work .
diálogoes la palabra más común de estos días , tras la positiva reunión de nuestro presidente nicolás maduro con los gobernadores , alcaldes y alcaldesas de los partidos de ... fidel castro : mandela ha muerto ¿ por qué ocultar la verdad sobre el apartheid ? ningún acontecimiento presente o pasado que yo recuerde o haya oído mencionar , como la muerte de mandela , impactó tanto a la opinión pública mundial ; y no por sus ... reflexiones sobre la victoria del 8 del campo opositor se estremece , si quieren ver la radiografía de una derrota y el pronóstico de un desenlace fatal en la mud , lean la entrevista , publicada en la prensa ...
como es el mismo exponente el que nos dice por un lado que comenzó el ocaso de la doctrina monroe pero al mismo tiempo meses atrás fue su máximo defensor , habría que aplicarla la " filosofía " de ni uno ni lo otros , sino todo lo contrario los últimos eventos eleccionarios en chile , honduras y venezuela nos han mantenido ocupados en el análisis de sus resultados , las perspectivas y consecuencias que de ellos se derivan la persona que todavía no alcance a entender lo que sucede en la venezuela después de chávez , debe comenzar por saber que las contiendas electorales dejaron de ser lo que lamentablemente siguen siendo en la mayoría de las democracias del mundo la arquitectura del movimiento bolivariano 200 ( mbr 200 ) en la calle , comenzó a ejecutarse a partir del año 1994 , cuando hugo chávez sale de la cárcel y comienza un peregrinar social y político por todo el país méxico : lo que el pri te da , el pri te lo quita 17 haitians dead as migrant boat capsizes off turks and caicos 18 haitians die after boat capsizes off turks and caicos applications for billings judgeship sought mon dec 30 , 2013 7 : 17 pm est billings gas prices continue to decrease slightly mon dec 30 , 2013 1 : 17 pm est new year ’ s day fun shoot planned mon dec 30 , 2013 1 : 17 pm est santa visits the billings clinic pediactric unit tue dec 17 , 2013 3 : 17 pm est what are those ?
new cabs set to hit the streets of billings mon dec 16 , 2013 7 : 17 pm est bozeman man creates online crime map sun dec 29 , 2013 03 : 17 am est butte reports 20 confirmed cases of flu so far mon dec 30 , 2013 7 : 17 pm est family things to do on new year ’ s eve in butte mon dec 30 , 2013 5 : 17 pm est skylights fall in vegas mon dec 30 , 2013 3 : 17 pm est the future of hi-line politics ?
mon dec 30 , 2013 3 : 17 pm est mildred ’ milly ’ toldness mon dec 30 , 2013 3 : 17 pm est audit planned in overtaxing case sun dec 29 , 2013 09 : 17 am est spokane company to replace missoula hospitals ’ life flight mon dec 30 , 2013 9 : 17 pm est something for everyone at first night missoula new year ’ s celebration mon dec 30 , 2013 9 : 17 pm est slackline practice over snow in missoula mon dec 30 , 2013 9 : 17 pm est the baffling reaction to a mindless television personality by equally mindless political leaders the mothership calls tebow homeassociated pressmore sportsbizarre touchdown ..
nfl refs messed up again ..
peyton breaks record ..
horrific injury ..
ditka sleeping 1 in 3 deniesdea picture library via getty imageshot on france to impose unbelievably high tax on the richkenzo tribouillard via getty imageshot on meet the people who think america is 2,014 years oldjung-pang wu via getty imageshot onhot on new survey has bad news for divorced parentsdavid de lossy via getty imagesmore divorcedating a mom ..
angriest ex ..
minivan driver 's message ..
shelton talks divorce ..
why we split ..
lessons on the blogthe heartbreaking significance of a pile of rocks in the woodsjb zac efron wears 6-month sobriety chipnoel vasquez via getty images ewwww : wsj editor finds frog in pret a manger saladinstagram : kathrynlurie the real reasons we sextjohn moore via getty imageshot on a primera vista , fatima aparentaba tener unos 4 o 5 meses .
pero , en realidad , acababa de cumplir su primer año de vida .
estaba entre los 126.000 niños con desnutrición aguda grave tratados en uno de los 425 centros nutricionales establecidos por el ministerio de salud de chad en 2012 como parte de la expansión de la atención en todo el sahel .
se llegó a cientos de miles de niños con la atención necesaria para salvar sus vidas .
tristemente , no se pudo llegar a otros muchos . * * il faut 1,4 milliard de dollars é.-u. maintenant pour les enfants qui vivent dans des situations de crise humanitaire , affirme l ’ unicef * * the impact of landmines and explosive remnants of war in countries or territories the resilience of countries and communities living on the edge not only le rapport sur l ' « action humanitaire pour les enfants 2011 » a lancé un appel de 1,4 milliard de dollars é.-u. pour répondre à des crises humanitaires de plus en plus graves .
le rapport sur l ' « action humanitaire pour les enfants 2011 » insiste sur la nécessité d 'aider les communautés vulnérables à se préparer contre les catastrophes avant qu 'elles ne se all the support and assistance provided to reduce suffering of the population as you all know , as a result of an earthquake in political and socio-economic terms , in its geography , demography and and the current planning process has led to a large increase in the number for $ 1,456,894 to support the government of tajikistan in its efforts to of hunger and malnutrition is on the increase across the developing world , downturn is exacerbating the impact of the food crisis and increasing food and scaling up its services to assist the most vulnerable people in the needs and national context , and the current planning process has led to when prescribed by a doctor for use at home and when provided by is covered , and whether a supplier is approved , by calling kent gardeners are obsessed by the seasons but in the florida keys , there ’ s colour all-year round the keys are all about the sea and sun so it is not surprising its gardens get overlooked .
lesley bellew took a 150-mile trip from miami to key west .
this week our gardening expert lucy hewett is wrapped up warmly tidying up her garden before the hard frosts arrive lesley bellew visits one of the world ’ s oldest arboretums , in dubrovnik , which has survived earthquakes , the bora winds , war and forest fires there 's no need for your tree to be over-hacked , lopsided and account the height of any stand below and the fairy or the star constantly brushing past the tree to reach a door or a sofa ?
if so , association , the most popular is the non-drop nordmann fir ( abies quite bushy trees and if you only have a narrow space , it might pay saw off the bottom 5cm of trunk to open up its pores before you bring the tree inside and place it in a bucket of water until you to assess the size and shape before you buy .
if it starts shedding once you 've ticked all these boxes , and your tree is neatly in its place , get the decorations down from the loft , get the baubles dmca noticegas watch - new mexico gas prices | kob.com she said lindi and simiwi have pulled out in the elevenths hour due to financial problems .
temeke region are the defending champions , but kibira said this yearís event promised to be more interesting and competitive as all the competing teams are well prepared for the championship .
it is easier to be anonymous than it is to be a highly involved student on campus .
but for others , after the business of frosh week dies down , after you discover you do not and never will possess the skills to be a varsity athlete , after you don ’ t need to ask anyone how to get to tsh 120 , it is a lot easier to become anonymous .
but being anonymous makes it easier to struggle , and not think you need to reach out .
it makes it easier to drown in your schoolwork and never bother to ask for help .
it is an easy life to get used to , but it is in no way the most appealing .
go out to an event , a club , a meeting .
tell someone if you hate the idea of being alone .
if you are an introvert like me , the idea of it can be quite exasperating .
it ’ s a big place , but being anonymous is no way to fill your spot .
i find it absolutely hilarious that this is included in the life of an & # 8220 ; anon & # 8221 ; . things are a lot harder than they seem for anon now that the msu-hsr contract is up for renegotiation before renewal , i hope to see some changes .
graduate rentention in a city notorious for appearing heavily unattractive to prospective mcmaster students , and for those students then staying within the “ campus bubble ” while at school , is an important issue for the city to address .
the beacon , e-editionchoose one of the issues from the archived list below . the most recent appear at the top of the list .
what information does ibd collect from you and how is it used ?
registrationproducts and services requiring paymenthow we gather information from youcookiesweb beaconssharinglegal disclaimeraggregate informationthird parties may receive or collect information through ibdibd forumscommunication via emailsubscribing to and unsubscribing from emailsupplementation of information with affiliatessite and service updatessecurityphishingcorrection / updating personal informationpersonal information you disclosechildrenchanges to our privacy policy web beacons , also called web bugs and clear gifs are used in combination with cookies to help us understand the behavior of our customers .
a web beacon is typically a transparent graphic image that is placed on our site or in an email .
the use of a web beacon allows ibd to record the simple actions of the user opening the page that contains the beacon .
this privacy policy covers the use of cookies by ibd and its affiliates only and does not cover the use of cookies by any advertisers orthird party partners who help us serve ads ..
if you have any questions about the security at our web site , you can contact us at www.askibd.com.
the word " user ( s ) " means any person ( also referred to as " you " or " yours " ) visiting investors.com or holding subscription ( s ) to or trial ( s ) of any ibd product .
all trademarks used herein are the exclusive property of their respective trademark owners and may not be used in any way without written consent of owner .
you may use the content online and solely for your personal , non-commercial use , and you may download or print a single copy of any portion of the content for your personal , non-commercial use , provided you do not remove any trademark , copyright or other notice contained in such content .
no other use is permitted .
you may not , for example , republish the content on any internet , intranet or extranet site or incorporate the content in any database , compilation , archive or cache .
you may not distribute any of the content to others , whether or not for payment or other consideration , and you may not modify , copy , frame , reproduce , sell , publish , transmit , display or otherwise use any portion of the content without the written consent of ibd .
for information on requests to use of the content for any purpose other than as permitted in this paragraph , please see licensing .
mail orders : if you order a paid subscription to any of our services by mailing in an order coupon to ibd , your subscription will lapse at the end of the subscription term and will not automatically renew unless you have affirmatively checked the box indicating auto-renew on the order coupon .
in the event you checked the auto-renew option , your subscription will continue until terminated by ibd or until you notify ibd of your cancellation .
you may cancel your subscription at any time .
for details , refer to our cancellation policy and our refund policy .
by submitting a username and password on any ibd online community and / or forum registration page , you agree to be bound by the investors.comterms of useas well as thesupplemental termsset forth herein ( collectively " terms of use " ) . & # 149 ; create liability for use or cause us to lose the services of our isps or other suppliers .
kasn public fileafter the times square party comes the cleanup | kob.com presenting the draft to presidents jakaya kikwete and dr ali mohamed shein , crc chairperson .
full story thousands fail to complete std vii due to pregnancy , truancy - report launching the press in maruhubi , unguja yesterday , zanzibar president dr mohammed shein said the machine is one of the government ’ s achievements in ensuring advancement in printing its documents .
director of the vocational and education training authority ( veta ) for the northern zone , angelus ngonyani said : & ldquo ; it is important for colleges to ensure that veta students are trained on issues related to entrepreneurship , so that at the end of the day they become job creators and not job seekers as was before .
after a week of chaos and inconvenience at the ubungo bus terminal ( ubt ) in dar es salaam caused by high demand for bus travel upcountry , services have now normalised .
mzumbe university at dar es salaam campus in collaboration with stellenbosch university in south africa has plans to launch a master of science degree in mining , gas and oil exploration .
" all the doors , windows scattered .
i got a concussion and smoke billowed from inside .
" at the olympics , security is the responsibility of the local authorities , and we have no doubt that the russian authorities will be up to the task , " it said in a statement .
as we approach the end of another year of charitable giving the message i offered at the close of 2012 is worthy of repeating .
it is time for us to put our charitable paperwork in order .
parishes and the diocese do their very best to track all gifts received , but if a donor finds errors or omissions on a statement , alerting the parish or diocese is imperative .
not doing so could result in the donor incurring costly tax deficiencies and penalties .
glenda seipp is the director of stewardship services for the catholic diocese of helena in the end the 4 did push out the incumbent 3 , after all if had been there for 365 days .
as predicted by us , the google doodle for december 31 did transform to reveal 2014 .
the animated number are now on celebrating the new year , complete with blaring ...
new delhi : in continuation to the new year 's eve 2013 doodle , google has posted a new doodle wishing everyone a happy new year .
the animated doodle shows a party on with speakers blaring and the digits 2-0-1-3 grooving on the dance floor and the ...
google 's doodle for dec 31 , 2013 , is one that will in a few hours change to usher in the new year .
summarygoogle 's doodle for dec 31 , 2013 , is one that will in a few hours change to usher in the new year .
it is that time of the year .
when one thing gives way ...
vote against gay marriage ?
here 's a lump of coal .
ho ho ho .
you can use special software to " subscribe " to individual programs so that to listen to one or more wsj podcasts feeds in your button and select " copy shortcut " or " copy link location " to copy wherever it asks for the location of the rss service or podcast you wish to subscribe to .
to see the archive of programs for a particular podcast in itunes , 70jareon road amphoe su ngai go lok changwat narathiwas 96120 0-7361-1231 s _ sungaikolok @ immigration.go.th a three day christmas tree festival held at st edburgs church in bicester last weekend was a resounding success .
animated adventure ?
need for speed ?
shoppers looking for gifts for gamers may be overwhelmed , but there are a few hot options .
the launch of playstation 4 and xbox one marks a chance for sony to win big after a string of losses and for microsoft to expand beyond pcs .
apple is partnering with new manufacturers in asia in order to churn out more of its devices .
waiting for the release of my daughter , nadia of pussy riot ngiliule urged that the government to prioritise local contractors in offering tenders to empower them so as to enable them be in the forefront in fasttracking national development .
cover story : moving up the risk curve ~ gentleman pig farmer ~ mad max watches ~ schwarzman 's scholars ~ wearable history ~ spa vs. spa ~ the flying mansion ~ my lambo lap ~ hollywood 's banker ~ protect ipo windfalls with a trust ~ more states lower taxes ~ trend spotting : the latest fashions and passions .
top storiesnews near youindiaworldbusinesstechnologyiphonefacebookgooglesamsung groupztemicrosoft wordtata motorsvineford ecosportcamerasentertainmentsportssciencehealthmore top storiesspotlighttop storiesnews near youindiaworldbusinesstechnologyentertainmentsportssciencehealthmore top storiesspotlighttechnologyeconomic timessee realtime coveragemicrosoft word has an assamese clone — jahnabidaily news & analysis- & lrm ; 4 hours ago & lrm ; named jahnabi , the word processor has came as a boon for those who need help in writing the language and can be easily used by those with a rudimentary knowledge of assamese.related microsoft word indian expresssee realtime coveragewe told you so .
the google doodle did transform to mark the new yearindian express- & lrm ; 10 hours ago & lrm ; in the end the 4 did push out the incumbent 3 , after all if had been there for 365 days .
as predicted by us , the google doodle for december 31 did transform to reveal 2014.related google aircel partners with zte for 4g network deployment , to begin with chennaivc circlezte signs agreement to deploy 4g lte network for aircel in indiamenafn.comin-depth : aircel ties up with zte for 4g serviceseconomic timeswikipedia : aircelsee all 60 sourcesrelated zte 4 . [ person of the year ] pm recep tayyip erdoğan : only man in town 10.resignation of mp deals fresh blow to turkey 's recep erdogan 11 . [ event of the year ] gezi protests that let the genie out of the bottle 35.how peter beinart defends the repulsive views of the antisemitic jew max ...
it 's time to let immigrants step out of the shadows in the south have no idea how fervent the prayers of those in the north are , " member of the durihana church in seoul , which is run by rev chun ki -won .
for about north korea , a virtual cult is in place , " he said .
" everything is focused on reality and so can easily adapt to the christian system . "
columns | church | opinion | special sections | advertising | archivesinvesting in fund managements in the western world , guidelines and pitfalls source bruce sheppard nz in stirring the pot | 2 : 27 pm 19 august 2008 1 .
how secure is my income between now and when i retire ?
so here is a list of questions for any potential adviser .
1 .
what are the fixed costs , how do you charge for your time ? 2 .
if you invest in managed funds what are the costs structures of each and what if any commissions do you receive ? • now here is the biggie .
i am yet to meet a financial planner who eats his own porridge .
he expects you to put all your money with him and buy a portfolio of managed funds .
ask the planner you are talking to what he is doing with his money ?
if you are lucky they might have some of their money in their own product , if so ask to see their personal investment reports for as long as they have been involved in the industry .
if on their own money they have not done well , then i guess you can assume they won ’ t do well for you either .
now of course he might say to you well i am new in this game , and i am still paying off my home and i have nothing to invest .
they have to start somewhere but before you appoint them ask to meet the senior planner in the firm , there will be one , and ask to see what he does .
ask to see his whole balance sheet , how much has he got in the firm ’ s products relative to his total portfolio , how has his portfolio performed , has he been taking money out and putting it in , has he been trying to guess timing , find out how this guy got to the top of the tree .
again i have to tell you that mostly even the successful ones do not invest in the stuff they are trying to sell you , or if they do it is very minor and what is more they do try to guess timing .
what you are looking for is someone who does for himself what he wants to do for you , and can demonstrate with his own affairs that it works .
gold mining company koza altın a.ş. , the owner of bugün daily and kanal türk tv station , had its activities halted on tuesday in çukuralan goldfield .
francesco corallo acquitted - he was ambassador of the republic of dominica at fao francesco corallo was ambassador of the republic of dominica at the fao .
according to court documents , this was determined by the magistrate of the court of rome , who fully acquitted francesco corallo because he did not make false statements on his " personal qualities " during the raid ordered by milan prosecutors as part of investigation of the loans granted by the bpm at b plus for francesco ... ( 12 / 24 / 2013 1 : 29 : 29 pm ) to find faqs or tax & legal information about vehicle donations , go to the cartalk vehicle donation program website .
however , the statement did not specify the necessary precautions to be taken by the residents of the said areas .
it is chaired by kenyan freelance writer and editor isaac mwangi , who is also a columnist with the east african news agency .
he is deputized by florence apolot of wbs tv in uganda .
james karuhanga of rwanda ’ s new times newspaper is the platform ’ s secretary , while peter saramba of the mwananchi newspaper in tanzania is assistant secretary .
the treasurer is florine mukeshimana of radio publique africaine in burundi .
yes , kansas is a special place - and it is our home .
when i started as governor , we had the highest state income tax in the region , now we have the 2nd lowest and i want us to take it to zero . look out texas , here comes kansas !
although the current drought is harsh , our reservoirs and aquifers continue to give us the water we need . but now they need attention .
several of our reservoirs and many of our lakes need dredging from siltation . the ogallala aquifer needs local action to reduce its use and save some of it for future generations .
a key to a child 's success is the ability to read .
it 's never easy being a mom or a dad .
but it gets even harder if one or both parents are not able to get a decent job .
our road map for kansas is focused on the economic growth of our state so employment can expand and families can prosper .
we are the air capital of the world .
our aircraft industry is back on the ascent -and southwest airlines is soon to land in wichita .
we are the nation 's breadbasket and its meat counter and are becoming its dairy section as well .
it funds a new crime lab and training facility for our state 's law enforcement on the campus of washburn university .
my administration has worked to restructure and reform state government to be more efficient and more effective . but there is a lot more we can do .
one of the clearest examples of duplication in state government is the fact that we have two highway departments : the kansas department of transportation and the kansas turnpike authority .
the " power of the purse " is the primary power of the legislature , not the executive or the judiciary .
and so i ask you to make it clear in law that defining what is " suitable provision " for public funding of education is a job for the people 's elected representatives – and no one else .
kansans expect and are entitled to a government that is not beholden to any special interest group .
others took up his work in the senate , but the loss was the departure of paul , a beautiful soul .
for me , my mentors have included our own kansas treasures---pat roberts and bob dole … i also learned a lot from senators pat moynihan , phil gramm , and ted kennedy .
and another person you can learn a lot from who has worked in the statehouse even longer than senator hensley is don wistuba .
don has operated the statehouse snack shop since 1976 .
he greets each day as a gift from god – and he truly is a gift of joy to the capitol .
don , would you please stand up and take a bow .
it is within our reach to see that our children can read .
it is within our reach to strengthen marriages and families .
it is within our reach to lead in job growth and energy independence .
it is within our reach to balance our budget and meet the needs of our people .
we have been placed here for a reason and our season is short .
let us build a better state and do it now .
thank you , may god bless you and may god continue to bless the state of kansas .
as we gather again to assess the state of our state , i want to welcome the new members of the house and senate and our new house leadership .
on behalf of all kansans , i thank yo but it doesn ’ t have to be .
the most important thing is to do your the big day in the most delicious way .
so , what will you be slicing there ’ ll be no shortage of vintage bridal gowns to choose from in kent ’ s boutiques this season , as designers pick up on a new love walker gives his top tips on how to pick the get me to the church on time and in style !
editor 's choicesitaly - asiathe joy of the gospel and christmasby bernardo cervellerapope francis 's apostolic exhortation is a great comfort for those who seek to build bridges to each other , without fear of going against public feelings .
the " mild light of christ " can confound and ultimately cancel the artificial light of the world .
best wishes from asianews to its readers and friends ; that they may " work " with the saviour who is born.vaticanpope : " a missionary and pastoral conversion " for a church open to changing its structuresby franco pisanothe apostolic exhortation " evangelii gaudium ” .
evangelization , the programmatic manifesto of the papacy , must find " new paths " and " creative methods " .
a " healthy decentralization ” .
an economic system " unjust at its roots " .
" authentic attacks on religious freedom " .
" there is an inseparable link between our faith and the poor " . "
no one can demand from us that we relegate religion to the secret intimacy of the individual " .
islamic countries must " ensure freedom to christians to worship and live their faith . "
sevenoaks produced a stunning display in the mud to see off charlton park 13-3 in the rfu intermediate cup.due to the adverse weather , the ...
a bike-riding lawyer is bringing justice to the streets of sevenoaks – by capturing dangerous and inconsiderate drivers on film.stuart ...
dollar tree stores , inc is alleged to be discriminatoryby mna press sister mary michael hansenfirst monastic profession - st. scholastica monasteryo criză cu viitor imprevizibil | cadran politic posted by dragoş tãbãran on apr 24th , 2003 / / comments off criza irakiana este extrem de complexa atât din perspectiva explicatiilor politice , economice sau militare , cât mai ales din cea a necunoscutelor legate de implicatiile regionale si chiar a undelor de soc la scara planetara .
al doilea conflict din golf & # 8211 ; daca este sa respectam conditiile oficiale , partea a doua a razboiului din 1991 & # 8211 ; a început în lipsa unei rezolutii a consiliului de securitate & # 8211 ; spun trei dintre cele cinci puteri cu statut de membru permanent & # 8211 ; sau în urma încalcarii de catre irak a rezolutiei 1441 si a documentelor anterioare care se refereau la oprirea programelor de dezvoltare a armelor de distrugere în masa .
primele victime ale acestei crize se numesc relatia transatlantica , nato , consiliul de securitate , parteneriatul ruso-american , relatiile de încredere care au functionat dupa disparitia sistemului international bipolar .
de ce tocmai irakul este centrul acestei neobisnuite provocari la adresa securitatii internationale în secolul al xxi-lea ?
un stat relativ tânar & # 8211 ; independenta a fost obtinuta abia în 1932 & # 8211 ; irakul se mândreste cu un trecut milenar .
într-adevar , daca egiptul a fost copilul nilului , irakul si istoria sa sunt rezultatul geografiei si , mai ales , al istoriei . resursele mesopotamiei au creat permanent surplusul de hrana necesar unei cresteri demografice exponentiale , factor de dezvoltare a numeroase civilizatii : ur , uruk , sumer , babilon , asiria etc .
au urmat califatul ummeyazilor , imperiul abasizilor , dar si ocupatia otomana , administratia britanica , regatul , republica , dictatura .
bogatia irakului a avut întotdeauna un caracter dublu : productiv si destructiv .
a generat state care nu si-au mai încaput în granite sau care au atras interesele imperiilor vecine .
în timpuri moderne , factorii economici s-au combinat cu cei ideologici si religiosi .
regimul lui saddam hussein este rezultatul evenimentelor politice din orientul mijlociu si a decolonizarii postbelice .
mesopotamia a redevenit în secolul al xx-lea ceea ce a fost în multe rânduri de-a lungul istoriei sale milenare : intersectia marilor câmpuri geopolitice .
nu întâmplator , irakul lui saddam hussein este rezultatul destramarii imperiului britanic & # 8211 ; un imperiu în care , ne amintim , soarele nu apunea niciodata & # 8211 ; si a aparitiei statului israel .
mecanismele politice si administrative inventate de britanici au ramas adânc în sistemul institutional irakian în ciuda loviturilor de stat si a asa-numitei revolutii baas socialiste , în fapt o încercare de control politic prin justificarea data de un socialism arab nationalist .
britanicii au manevrat clivajele profunde din interiorul societatii atât de fragmentate a irakului .
o societate dominata de conflicte etnice , economice , religioase , ideologice .
istoria contemporana a irakului este o încercare de a transforma acest haotic conglomerat într-o natiune .
din pacate , aceasta încercare a esuat într-o feroce dictatura .
britanicii au încercat sa controleze irakul prin încurajarea mecanismelor traditionale , tribale , bazate pe monopolul decizional al seicilor , si favorizarea unor institutii politice slabe .
mai mult , marea britanie a impus o monarhie straina & # 8211 ; hashemita & # 8211 ; a trasat frontiere artificiale & # 8211 ; care nu au nimic în comun cu harta etnica sau cu factorii geografici & # 8211 ; si a respins mereu miscarile nationaliste nascute în noile clase urbane .
irakul lui saddam s-a nascut din cele patru decenii , între 1918 si 1958 , din actiuni clandestine , subversive , urmate de violenta , lovituri de stat , reprimari si revolte kurde sau siite .
ajuns la putere , saddam hussein a utilizat petrolul pentru a demara ambitioase proiecte de dezvoltare . din nou , bogatia mesopotamiei si-a demonstrat caracterul dublu : productiv si destructiv .
exploatând aurul negru , saddam a dezvoltat industrii , a pus la punct proiecte moderne , de amploare , a construit , le-a dat irakienilor locuri de munca , educatie , sisteme medicale moderne , facilitati si gratuitati .
le-a dat prosperitate si ce si-au dorit mereu : o identitate nationala .
reversul medaliei a fost dictatura personala , un razboi sângeros cu iranul si o invazie a kuweitului pentru care si-a atras pedeapsa comunitatii internationale si un embargou catastrofal care a anulat tot ce s-a facut pâna în 1991 .
conflictul cu iranul si mai ales invadarea kuweitului au descoperit lumii o realitate multa vreme ignorata din ratiuni politice si , mai ales , economice : irakul , o tara cu urias potential , era condus de un dictator cu ambitii regionale , care avea programe de dezvoltare a armelor de distrugere în masa si care nu a ezitat sa le foloseasca împotriva tarilor vecine sau chiar a propriului popor .
occidentul dornic de petrol nascocise un nou hitler .
multi analisti au pus atacarea iranului pe seama unui sentiment al vulnerabilitatii .
saddam s-a temut ca ideile revolutiei fundamentaliste din iran se vor extinde în rândul populatiei siite irakiene .
o eventuala aliniere a siitilor la interesele politice ale iranului ayatolahilor ar fi lipsit irakul de petrolul sau & # 8211 ; mai toate câmpurile sunt în zone unde siitii sunt dominanti & # 8211 ; si în final ar fi distrus statul .
sprijinit de un occident care se temea si el de tendintele expansioniste ale revolutiei iraniene si care era extrem de preocupat de influenta crescânda a uniunii sovietice , dar si de statele sunnite din golf care se temeau de cresterea în putere a siismului , saddam a învins iranul , dar a facut o greseala strategica : a invadat kuweitul .
a considerat ca bogatia emiratului & # 8211 ; pe care irakienii îl considerau o regiune rebela & # 8211 ; poate compensa pierderile uriase din razboiul cu iranul & # 8211 ; peste 100 de miliarde de dolari .
în plus , în toti anii în care s-a aflat la putere , saddam hussein si-a urmarit un obiectiv strategic propriu : distrugerea israelului si proclamarea sa ca lider incontestabil al lumii arabe .
ultimul palat construit de saddam hussein la bagdad & # 8211 ; are 16 în capitala si 72 în toata tara & # 8211 ; este decorat cu doua uriase busturi : unul al lui salahudin & # 8211 ; califul kurd care i-a învins pe cruciati si a ocupat ierusalimul & # 8211 ; si celalalt al celui care s-a dorit al doilea salahudin : saddam hussein .
saddam hussein nu a fost niciodata iubit de arabi .
nici nu si-a dorit .
a vrut sa le fie frica de el si sa-l venereze în calitate de conducator absolut .
liderii arabi moderati îl considera un pericol pentru ca , prin actiunile sale , poate influenta stabilitatea si securitatea tarilor pe care le conduc . palestinienii îl aproba si îl pretuiesc pentru ca sprijina financiar & # 8211 ; spre deosebire de alte state arabe bogate & # 8211 ; cauza palestiniana .
o face însa din simpatie sau din dorinta de a ramâne în istorie ca liderul arab care a distrus israelul ?
statele unite si-au anuntat intentia de a împarti irakul post-saddam în trei sau chiar patru zone administrate militar de la centru pâna va deveni posibila instaurarea unui regim politic democratic , ales liber si bazat pe lege .
în rândul arabilor exista convingerea , însa , ca administratia americana doreste fragmentarea teritoriala a irakului .
este clar ca primul rezultat al disparitiei dictaturii saddam hussein va fi accentuarea tendintelor centrifuge .
kurzii isi doresc statul propriu , un stat considerat obiectiv politic imposibil de acceptat de turcia si iran .
este si motivul pentru care cele doua tari coopereaza împotriva factiunilor kurde din nodul irakului , desi fiecare dintre ele a încercat la un moment dat sa sprijine o grupare adversa .
ambitia politica a kurzilor este dublata de dorinta lor de a-si asigura resursele pe baza câmpurilor petrolifere din nordul irakului , de lânga mossul si kirkuk .
un alt obiectiv greu de acceptat de turcia si iran , dar nici de aceasta data de statele unite .
devenita realitate , fragmentarea irakului ar pune într-o pozitie excelenta cealalta grupare etnica & # 8211 ; siitii & # 8211 ; de fapt majoritari .
raspânditi în zonele petrolifere , siitii sunt banuiti de afinitati pro-iraniene desi multi dintre ei alcatuiesc o elita comerciala si stiintifica a irakului .
o eventuala desprindere a siitilor si , de ce nu , alipirea lor la iran ar perturba grav echilibrul regional , cu atât mai mult cu cât si emiratele din golf , mai putin regatul saudit , sunt dominate de siiti .
tot la capitolul perspective politice trebuie mentionate si undele de soc produse de anuntul adminstratiei bush privind intentiile de democratizare a lumii arabe . este o declaratie cu efect de tsunami într-o lume în care relatiile tribale si atotputernicii seici continua sa fie stâlpii de rezistenta . nici liderii arabi moderati apropiati occidentului nu sunt pregatiti sa accepte democratizarea reala a societatilor pe care le conduc .
pe de alta parte , destabilizarea echilibrului politic intern din aceste tari , existent în acest moment gratie unui regim de forta sia limitarii accesului maselor la bogatia data de petrol , ar favoriza gruparile si partidele islamiste , devenite extrem de puternice în ultimii ani .
nu trebuie sa evitam adevarul : dupa irak vor urma alte state !
nu este obligatorie însa optiunea militara .
vom vedea în anii ce urmeaza reforme politice , mai mult sau mai putin de buna-voie , în siria , arabia saudita , iran , yemen .
semnele unor evolutii de acest gen sunt evidente : reforme politice , inclusiv ale legii electorale , în iordania si siria .
tot în iordania , femeile au primit , pentru prima oara , dreptul de a fi reprezentate în parlament . iordania pare sa fie de altfel , dupa pacea cu israelul din 1994 , vârful de lance al transformarii lumii arabe .
o concluzie este prematura .
vom vedea daca viitorul va confirma convingerea statelor unite ca modelul democratic occidental poate fi adoptat si de statele arabe sau nu .
un esec însa ar aduce la putere fortele islamiste ancorate înca într-un feudalism dur , rigid si , lucrul cel mai important , profund anti-occidental . © 2003 cadran politic · rss · designed by theme junkie · powered by wordpress diocese of duluth - catholic church in northeastern minnesota minnesota dioceses : the archdiocese of saint paul and minneapolisthe diocese of saint cloudthe diocese of crookstonthe diocese of new ulmthe diocese of winona 15.canara bank to set up 38 branches in jammu and kashmir widespread flu reported in ny and ma mon dec 30 , 2013 8 : 21 pm est sheriff ’ s office : snow , ice a factor in powderhouse road crash mon dec 30 , 2013 4 : 21 pm est upstate ny airport lands faa drone-testing site mon dec 30 , 2013 4 : 21 pm est the top 10 of ’ 13 sat dec 28 , 2013 6 : 21 pm est hayssen has two challengers for seneca county board chair mon dec 30 , 2013 12 : 21 pm est crime and punishment mon dec 30 , 2013 2 : 21 pm est man charged in theft cases mon dec 30 , 2013 2 : 21 pm est andover man arrested on sex charge sun dec 29 , 2013 10 : 21 am est dougherty poised to take office sun dec 29 , 2013 10 : 21 am est free coffee , tea available on thruway new year ’ s eve mon dec 30 , 2013 8 : 21 pm est how a government shutdown could affect you tue nov 19 , 2013 12 : 21 pm est dolgeville middle school has a new principal tue nov 19 , 2013 12 : 21 pm est aiello ready to take office as mayor mon dec 30 , 2013 10 : 21 am est jobless claims steady in allegany and cattaraugus counties , drop in steuben and chautauqua sat dec 28 , 2013 10 : 21 am est save the date for cny arts center ’ s annual snow day mon dec 30 , 2013 10 : 21 pm est ny state police investigating judge judy ’ s son mon dec 30 , 2013 04 : 21 am est report : 70 journalists died on the job in 2013 mon dec 30 , 2013 04 : 21 am est county receives edf grant for 20 new americorps positions mon dec 30 , 2013 04 : 21 am est local cheerleaders to perform at capital one bowl mon dec 30 , 2013 10 : 21 pm est ’ drab to fab ’ mon dec 30 , 2013 10 : 21 am est man accused of injuring 2-month-old mon dec 30 , 2013 10 : 21 pm est what are those loud booms you ’ re hearing ?
mon dec 30 , 2013 8 : 21 pm est poughkeepsie city council swearing-in set for thursday mon dec 30 , 2013 4 : 21 pm est beacon ’ s mayor casale optimistic for city ’ s future mon dec 30 , 2013 04 : 21 am est new year , new laws in new york mon dec 30 , 2013 6 : 21 pm est police identify man killed on woodman park mon dec 30 , 2013 6 : 21 pm est ny named one of six states to host drone testing mon dec 30 , 2013 8 : 21 pm est tougher ny gun law results in 1,146 felony charges mon dec 30 , 2013 02 : 21 am est feral hogs no longer ’ fair game ’ in ny sun dec 15 , 2013 6 : 21 pm est rockland tourism out with a bang mon dec 30 , 2013 8 : 21 pm est dr brian hick was impressed by soloist laura van der heijden during the latest performance by maidstone symphony orchestra woman set on fire : boy friend is suspectby montana news push to get kids vaccinated for the fluby montana news montana , you can do it : success for the new 2013 yearby montana news it ’ s got four wheels , but can it outrun a chevy ?
probably not .
wilbert mosbrucker spent most of his life on the farm .
top storiesnews near youindiaworldbusinesstechnologyentertainmentsportssciencehealthmore top storiesspotlighttop storiesnews near youindiaworldbusinesstechnologyentertainmentsportssciencehealthmore top storiesspotlightfarooq shaikhthe hindusee realtime coveragefarooq shaikh buried in mumbaithe hindu- & lrm ; dec 30 , 2013 & lrm ; film actor farooq shaikh was buried in mumbai on late on monday night , in presence of his fans , co-actors and many members from the film fraternity.related bollywood farooq shaikh 's last rites to be performed todayindia todayfarooq sheikh to be laid to rest near his mother 's grave in andheri todaytimes of indiain-depth : actor farooq sheikh dies of heart attack , big b , srk reacthindustan timessee all 507 sourcesrelated bollywood farooque shaikh : the choosy , charming man who played ' aam aadmi ' herofirstpostremembering farooque shaikh : a gentleman actor who brought nazakat to ... indian expresssee all 25 sourcesrelated bollywood © 2013 indexmundi - all rights reservedúíä çáíþíä : : ãèçíëçê îçïã çáíñãíä çáôñíýíä æçáñæíó çáçãíñßì êäçæáê çáêøæñçê ýì çáãäøþé æúãáíé çáóáçã æêúòíò çáúáçþçê çáëäçæíé úíä çáíþíä : : ãèçíëçê îçïã çáíñãíä çáôñíýíä æçáñæíó çáçãíñßì êäçæáê çáêøæñçê ýì çáãäøþé æúãáíé çáóáçã æêúòíò çáúáçþçê çáëäçæíé ain alyaqeen | ain al yaqeen weekly arab political magazine custodian of the two holy mosques king abdullah bin abdulaziz sends a reply cable of thanks to prince nayef bin abdulaziz on the occasion of the success of this year 's hajj îçïã çáíñãíä íæìå èñþíé ôßñ çáì æòíñ çáïçîáíé úáì ãç êíþþ ãä äìçí ýì ãæóã çáíì úíä çáíþíä : : îçïã çáíñãíä íèíë ãú çáñæíó úèçó çáêøæñçê çáýáóøíäíé æãóíñé çáóáçã úíä çáíþíä : : çîêíçñ îçïã çáíñãíä áäíá ìçæòé çáãáß ýíõá çáúçáãíé áîïãé çáåóáçããóíñé çáóáçã the custodian of the two holy mosques and his crown prince in the eid message to the muslims has arafat decided to postpone the declaration of an independent palestinian state ?
the subjects of the international award for the year 2000 are specified editorial : " after ruining his own people , he tries to destroy others . "
the assassination of a religious leader and his two sons in najaf provokes bloody clashes between the iraqi authorities and demonstrators the custodian of the two holy mosques receives a letter from president ali salih sheikh hamad ibn issa al khalifa emir of bahrain succeeds his father who died suddenly of a heart attack .
the us continues to implement its strategy with the aim of toppling the iraqi regime the un secretary general points out to iraq 's failing to implement the " oil for food " programme " the steadfastness of the saudi leaders has rescued kuwait from the invasion " a new era of relations and co-operation in confronting challenges unscom has yet to locate many of iraq 's chemical and biological weapons annual meeting of the members of the world economic forum in davos saud al faisal and robin cook agree on the prognosis and the prescription arab condemnation to the settlements ' policy and judaisation of jerusalem the custodian of the two holy mosques king fahd ibn abdul aziz opec resolves in favour of the saudi position to confront the fall in prices israel 's intentions exposed in its manoeuvres in the theatre of southern lebanon under the auspices of the crown prince and with the participation of the minister of defence editorial : " a place among the nations or a place despite the nations " professor of international law at the american university of beirut arafat will pay the price for the collapse of the peace process report stress on the existence of a large stock of weapons not destroyed yet opening of custodian of the two holy mosques project in asir so that the " age of israel " does not triumph in the confrontation the european council strongly condemns the federal republic of yougoslavia the opening of the mosque and islamic centre in edinburgh the jerusalem committee calls for normalisation to be put to a standstill the results of the medical examinations are excellent and king fahd is in good health on a trip in which he launched dozens of projects costing billions of riyals king fahd : " the aim of the sixth development plan is the development of urban and rural areas " saudi arabia tries to curtail the tension and expel the clouds of war from the skies of iran and afghanistan years of achievement in the twin cities of jubayl and yanbu king fahd orders aid to be sent to those injured in the kenya and tanzania explosions custodian of the two holy mosques king fahd undergoes successful gallbladder operation prince khalid ibn sultan on the anniversary of the october 1973 war on the twenty fifth anniversary of the october war in 1973 as part of the celebrations of the centenary of saudi arabia the custodian of the two holy mosques expresses his appreciation of us efforts to break the deadlock in the middle east peace process arafat presents the " star of jerusalem " award to prince salman developments follow the signing of the agreement at wye plantation obstacles to peace and the situation in the middle east at heart of discussions dr esmat abdel meguid secretary general of the arab league king fahd : abu dhabi summit is another new milestone in the development of gcc king fahd orders the release of prisoners on the occasion of ramadan king fahd underscores the depth and the strength of the relations with yemen the custodian of the two holy places calls for islamic solidarity to overcome obstacles " there is no alternative to the oslo agreement " fatchett stresses the need to achieve justice for the palestinians .
diplomacy succeeds in freezing the confrontation .
but for how long ?
enter the cave on android for free via the amazon appstore [ update : nope ! ] joystiq - by sinan kubba " the cave " is free for android userscomplex.comsee all 10 sourcesrelated amazon appstore check the back of your receiver box to see if you have an input for " off-air in " or " over the air antenna . "
if so , turn off your receiver and plug in a regular off-air tv antenna such as a rooftop antenna or " rabbit ears . "
then turn the receiver back on .
if you need assistance , you can contact directv at 1-800-531-5000 .
l ’ édification d ’ un etat de droit , démocratique , soucieux de la dignité de la personne humaine , de la sécurité et de la prospérité pour tous. la priorité dans la politique du cndd et sa part du budget passera à 15 & percnt .
elle obéira au principe de la modernisation par l ’ introduction de la mécanisation et des acquis de la recherche scientifique ; au principe de la diversification des cultures vivrières et industrielles et au principe de la rationalisation avec agricoles sera encouragée .
pour cela , le gouvernement cndd va créer cinq centres pilotes de développement intégré dans les cinq régions du pays : nord , sud , processus de développement endogène local .
a cet effet , il va de l ’ agriculture , de l ’ elevage et de la nutrition organisé en un secrétariat d ’ etat à la production agricole et à l ’ alimentation et un secrétariat d ’ etat à l ’ etat sur toute l ’ étendue de la république .
cela permettra de réduire sensiblement les conflits récurrents entre les citoyens et l ’ etat sur informées , formées et sensibilisées sur le travail agricole et sur sa éleveur suivra une formation dans ces domaines pour maîtriser son savoir faire dans ces deux secteurs vitaux du pays , la formation sera sanctionnée par un choix des espèces plus productives .
équilibrage entre les bananes à cuire et les veillera au choix de nouvelles boutures de manioc et combattra la maladie de la du maïs et du blé connaîtra une forte augmentation afin de combattre la faim et de pouvoir vendre aux industries et aux particuliers .
les boulangeries seront les haricots , les arachides , le soja , les petits pois : leur production sera augmentée pour procurer à la population des protéines et pouvoir vendre aux industries .
les patates douces et les pommes de terre : nous allons sélectionner les espèces les plus résistantes et les plus rentables .
les palmiers à huile : mieux étudier les potentiels alimentaire et industriel du palmier à huile , organiser une meilleure distribution de l ’ huile de palme .
le riz : augmenter la production pour en limiter les importations .
les légumes et les fruits : production et procurer le pays les devises dont il a besoin , le cndd va formation et de l ’ information , ces techniciens seront orientés vers les pays production et lutter contre la contrebande , les prix d ’ achat au planteur seront encouragés à prendre des actions dans les coopératives , sociétés de fournis pour apporter un maximum de valeur ajoutée par transformation de développement seront gérées sous forme de coopératives .
la population des le cndd s ’ engage à encourager la production , la transformation , la conservation , la commercialisation et la distribution des produits agricoles pour garantir la sécurité alimentaire de la population .
a cette fin , le cndd envisage d ’ élaborer des programmes régionaux de développement pour exploiter au maximum les opportunités de spécialisation régionale dans la production agricole , de créer des offices de produits vivriers et réhabiliter la fête agricole .
de plus le cndd va encourager , par des mesures fiscales et réglementaires , la création des coopératives d ’ achat d ’ intrants agricoles et de commercialisation des produits agricoles .
pour redonner l ’ honneur à l ’ agriculture il sera instauré une fête nationale de l ’ agriculture. ainsi que la lutte contre l ’ érosion et les sols acides , l ’ utilisation des semences sélectionnées ( à l ’ exclusion des ogm ) , la modernisation des outils rationalisation des circuits des produits agricoles , la régulation des prix des produits agricoles en vue d ’ une juste rémunération et la transformation équipements agricoles .
le cndd assurera donc l ’ accès aux prêts pour la afin de permettre au monde rural d ’ épargner en sécurité .
il veillera à la micro-crédit sur tout le territoire burundais , à la création d ’ un fonds de agences de crédit agricole dans toutes les provinces pour augmenter l ’ accès du monde rural à l ’ épargne ainsi qu ’ à la garantie de la totalité de provinciales de crédit agricole seront des centres d ’ excellence en matière de données , de recherches et d ’ analyses des économies locales afin de mieux en matière d ’ élevage , le cndd s ’ engage à encadrer et à former les éleveurs , promouvoir la recherche d ’ espèces plus productives et résistantes , encourager la création des coopératives d ’ éleveurs et à faciliter leur accès aux crédits , repérer et aménager des zones d ’ élevage pour le petit et le gros bétail , introduire l ’ usage à large échelle des plantes fourragères , promouvoir la pisciculture et la culture des algues marines lacustres sur les lacs , protéger les espèces marines lacustres ainsi que les zones de pêche. élaborer une carte d ’ aménagement du territoire burundais dans son entièreté .
dans ce but , il va créer un ministère de l ’ aménagement du territoire et de l ’ environnement ( ou ministère du développement durable ) , mettre en place une naturelles du pays et élaborer un plan directeur d ’ aménagement du territoire prévoyant l ’ implantation des villages , des centres urbains , des pistes rurales , des routes d ’ intérêt régional , y compris les chemins de fer. organisée dans la capitale et en province .
il sera créé des écoles et instituts spécialisés ainsi qu ’ une garde chargée de faire respecter les codes de l ’ industrie , aux routes et autres infrastructures sociales .
les zones destinées publics et privés ainsi que l ’ espace réservé à la construction des habitations pour les citoyens seront déterminées par la loi .
a bujumbura et dans toutes les villes du burundi , une zone dite & bdquo ; aire administrative « sera déterminée .
cœur de l ’ administration , il y sera érigé les grands bâtiments publics abritant les administrations de l ’ etat .
cela évitera la dispersion des services de l ’ etat. pour l ’ étude et la mise en exécution de ce programme. gestion de l ’ environnement passera par le choix d ’ énergies non polluantes , l ’ entretien des parcs nationaux , des aires et des espèces protégées , une politique de collecte et de traitement des déchets industriels et ménagers , une campagne soutenue de reboisement des espaces arides et des bordures des axes routiers , le tout s ’ appuyant sur une éducation des citoyens à la bonne des rivières et des lacs , notamment le lac tanganyika sera menée. en place un système de ramassage et de traitement des déchets : eaux matière de préservation de l ’ environnement et inciter les industries à de sécurité de l ’ environnement .
il s ’ appliquera à la réhabilitation des banlieues contre l ’ exclusion et la bidonvilisation ; ainsi qu ’ à la conservation et à l ’ utilisation durable de la biodiversité ( faune et flore ) , notamment celle du lac tanganyika et des autres réserves naturelles , par la généralisation des méthodes de protection de l ’ environnement , du maintien et de la restauration de s ’ engage à réhabiliter les réserves naturelles et le reboisement de tous les sommets , plantation des arbres permettant d ’ enrichir et de protéger les sols comme le neem , les bambous , les arbres fruitiers … ainsi il sera instauré moins une journée de travaux communautaires par mois et un service national pour le reboisement de tout le pays en trois ans et encourager toute personne physique ou morale ou collectivité locale qui se sera illustrée dans le projet de protection et de dépollution des rivières et des lacs , notamment le attention particulière sera attirée pour préserver la faune et la flore burundi a été coupé , transformé en bois de chauffage et vendu parfois à l ’ étranger .
cela a eu comme conséquence l ’ irrégularité des pluies et la du pays qui a déjà commencé dans la province de kirundo et qui a déjà fait de allons mettre sur pied un programme de reboisement du pays .
les arbres comme les eucalyptus qui appauvrissent le sol par la consommation de grandes quantités d ’ eau et dont les effets négatifs sont la diminution des nappes phréatiques ' tis the season to , well , buy stuff .
increasingly , the stuff we buy is electronic .
in fact , not only that , but increasingly the stuff we buy with is electronic , too .
we are using gizmos to shop for gadgets , or possibly gadgets to shop for gizmos .
in any event , we are ever ...
i rather doubt you need me to bring the roiling statin debate to your attention , given its prominence in scientific circles and mass media alike .
in essence , a new set of guidelines for the use of lipid-lowering drugs to prevent heart disease was issued ...
health at an impasse : the case for getting past collusion for those who follow health news , there was no way to avoid tripping over the combination of oreos and cocaine this week .
the relevant headlines , of which there are many , suggest in essence that oreos are as dangerous and addictive as cocaine . are they ?
the answers are : of ...
beating on wheat and raining on grains : what 's really making us fat and stupid ?
feeding homo sapiens : are we truly as clueless as we seem ?
lifestyle as medicine : at a fork in the road , who 's got a spoon ?
a new beef with meat and eggs ?
my gut reactions the prh ( personal responsibility for health ) chronicles , part 2 : the way we are redskins fire mike shanahanespnthe redskins ' firing of mike shanahan was a laughable disasterfoxsports.comsee realtime coveragesee all 1,139 sourcesrelated mike shanahan forces , shelling by the rebels , the cold weather and the skyrocketing food prices we cannot see the end of this violence , " he noted .
" no one knows when this war will chaldean cathedral , one at 5 pm on christmas eve and one on christmas morning. stopped the flow of help to the poor and to displaced families. ago an elderly muslim man ran after me and loudly expressed his gratitude for “ in contrast to congress , diversity diminishes in washington legislature ” — the seattle times “ new jersey email voting a casualty in sandy ’ s wake ” — politico if pm does not understand , he has experienced degradation of rationality & # 8211 ; ...
ali hasanov : & # 8220 ; 2013 was an important year in terms of the fact ...
cybersecurity to get a lot more complicated in 2014 : isaca stateline – which states are most vulnerable to sequestration ’ s education cuts ?
usaid program on prevention of hiv and tuberculosis started in uzbekistan how to become the student in uzbekistan or " the price " of admission seven years of jail for aids prevention .
how maxim popov " was absorbed " underwear and linen on the one hand and jubilee on the other : capital of uzbekistan is prettied for unscheduled festivities uzbekistan : the andijani issue and mistakes made by the west an update on the uzbek-us relations .
the stick and the carrot policy again ?
islam karimov promises a " thaw " and demands abandonment of " soviet stereotypes " from the west bairam shihmuradov hopes to see his father yet after five years of uncertainty are kyrgyz security structures out to pin the blame for alisher saipov 's assassination on hizb-ut-takhrir ?
ajdar kurtov : why is kyrgyzstan not switzerland and not even the ussr ?
construction of a politically correct pyramid or snapshots of dushanbe summits new president of turkmenistan follows in the steps of his predecessor president of uzbekistan urges his fellow uzbeks to « stop boasting » and « be watchful » также alfeco защита картера двигателя вы можете увидеть только у нас на форуме .
download adobe flash player.council backs off on edc proposal on the bee © 2014 laurentian publishingmatichuk : transportation key to unlocking ring of fire calls on province to step in and get process moving related articlescliffs denied road access to ring of firering of fire situation a real cliffhanger ring of fire on the backburner for cliffs ? rickford aims to change ring of fire ' narrative ' ring of fire makes northern voices louder you may have noticed the new yamaha clavinova keyboard if you attended the fall concert in the gymnasium of the center-stanton high school .
oliver county might not yet be a player in the oil-producing game , but it will surely play a role in supporting the oil industry .
darryl heid didn ’ t know if he wanted to go fishing until 4 in the morning .
it was the last few days of his youngest son , dane ’ s , summer vacation .
using a jig almost as big as he is to land a 150-pound yellowfin tuna made a deep sea fishing trip off the coast of cape cod a once in a lifetime memory for an oliver county youth. and some rehabilitative activities for the frail or cognitively impaired person to be a part of , and i ’ m trusting god to get she said one of the big draws to the sisters she said .
“ what i did know was that i wasn ’ t to relocate to a place where no one knew her. worked in boise , idaho , for a year as a pastoral “ it was a little weird , ” she said .
when a campus it was a turning point , both in my work in when god did the rest , in engaging us in the for a third trip this year , as she concluded her talked her into it , she said , and the may visit us to live ours .
she challenged me a lot in oregon : as of nov .
18 , no one had enrolled through the website .
“ if we have to go back and validate and clarify , we can do that but at least we ’ ll have enough in place to take the application , ” he explained .
amy biegelsen is a freelance journalist based in richmond , va . marriage is natural law and not just a legal documentby montana news climategate leaker : our civilization is being killed by lying " science " elitistsby ron arnold parents " dosabled son mistreated by a school teacherby montana news the latest on the cutting edge of technologyby montana news does the death of google reader signal the end of rss ? by montana news montana max baucus selling out to radical gun controlby montana news the trojans evened their record at one win and one loss with an 82 to 56 win over the new salem holsteins on tuesday night .
but , friday night the tro-jans lost to the linton lions on the home court 68 to 55 to put the trojans at one win and two losses .
“ we look at the yuma sector as a model to follow ” for the rest of the state , benson said .
“ it ’ s a little bit of a battleground here , ” gowan said .
the lawmaker , who criticized the obama administration ’ s lawsuit to block arizona ’ s latest anti-immigration law , made it clear he is no fan of the senate proposal — even though arizona ’ s two u.s. senators helped draft it .
“ we want the border secured , ” he said .
despite the governor ’ s popularity , democrats say they are in a good position to hold both the house and the senate .
“ you measure coattails on 11 o ’ clock on election night , and not before that point , ” jankowski said .
society watch : operation crackdown on poachers has taught us a lot departure of ministers : gains and losses : prior to the sacking of the four ministers by president kikwete a few days ago because of the aftermath of operation tokomeza research and markets has announced the addition of the " oil and gas industry of turkmenistan " report to their offeri ( 12 / 18 / 2013 5 : 02 : 00 am ) the onward flight to london gatwick had to be cancelled and , as of thursday , the damaged aircraft was reportedly still on the ground in saint lucia .
due to the flooding , the airport closed for the rest of tuesday and wednesday but reopened at 3 : 00 pm on thursday .
however , no jet fuel was reportedly due to be available until friday .
we feel it is a good time to buy property due to the insecurity of the present economic situation , except oil .. registered leasehold of up to 30 years for all types of titled land here if you do the paperwork right .
prices are a lot cheaper than the first thing you need to do is obtain the services of a reputable is not regulated so watch out for agents forcing you to sign contracts , deed to make sure the property is what it says .
do yourself a big mortgages and want to unload the houses before they pay off the loan lost if he did not use our service .
the same goes with the boundaries of the property which need to be the same as the title deed .
in thailand there 's no survey pegs as understate property area or move so called pegs .
do not pay any down have had the title checked by a lawyer .
if the building is under construction or the land is having a subdivision look carefully at the provisions for issuing a title , and easement rights for say roadways .
if you are a foreigner you can lease for 30 years or form a company to hold the house if you are going do not start a company for the sake of securing your house .
as at 2006 march immigration and company registration are now interviewed as well as what business you are doing ? ? ? ? this law has always been but now it is being enforced as at may 25th 2006 .
the document does not indicate legal possession of the informer so one cannot transfer the ownership of the property to any one else .
the sor kor 1 is rare now as the government 's land ownership legislation has nor sor 3 is a governmental letter certifying a utilization of certain difference is the map survey of the land plot based on an aerial-viewed ownership title deed or chanote is the ultimate certification of be a friend who procures a builder for the foreigner then has a separate contract with the builder for his cut which is 1 / 2 of the asking satang which is not even a baht .
if you need a good builder in chiangmai lawyer or ask us as we can give you a quote with times etc if you want they ask in advance you could find yourself in a bad situation .
itemize the materials and also how many men they will have on the job and also and will offer you discounts and extras just to get your business .
if of your new home and meets the agreed requirement on specification .
if home | about | search | site mapgıda sektörü haberleri online abonelike-gazetehoşgeldi̇n 201401 ocak 2014 çarşambaanasayfaekonomifinansdış haberlerpolitikatoplumsektörlerkategori̇lerfinansne , nerede , ne zamangündembi̇k i̇lanlarıdünya ihtdış i̇lişkileremtiai̇şletme-yönetimmevzuatnews in englishgüncelyorum i̇ncelemebölgelerdenözel dosyalarresmi gazetetiger monitorbankacılık sektörübilişimdemir-çelik sektörüenerji sektörügıda sektörühaberleşme sektörühizmetleri̇nşaat sektörükimya-petrokimya sektörümadencilik sektörümağazacılık-perakendecilik sektörümedya sektörüotomotiv sektörüplastik-kauçuk sektörüsanayisavunma sanayiisigortacılık sektörütarım ve hayvancılıktaşımacılık sektörütekstil sektörüturizm sektörü17 : 48 - putinden , gül ve erdoğana yeni yıl mesajı17 : 32 - yılın yazar , fikir insanı ve sanatçıları açıklandı17 : 29 - filistinin prag büyükelçisi hayatını kaybetti17 : 24 - bulgaristanda asgari ücret 340 leva oldu17 : 22 - türkiye , avrupa ’ nın 11. zengini ! 17 : 16 - kuzu paralel devlet twitlerine açıklama getirdi17 : 15 - ötv artışı sektörü kötü etkileyecek16 : 38 - sayıştay tcdd raporu : gerekirse soruşturulsun16 : 03 - resmi burslu öğrencilere yeni yıl sürprizi15 : 54 - fakıbabadan türgeve 3 milyon liralık arsagıda sektörü haberlerisebze ve meyveye soğuk hava zammıantalya 'da soğuk hava nedeniyle toptan sebze ve meyvenin kilogram fiyatı 10 kuruş ile 1,7 lira arasında artış gösterdi .
en fazla zam ise yüzde 41-51 artışla patlıcana geldi " beyaz eti daha fazla tüketmemiz gerekiyor " tzd başkanı yetkin , türkiye 'de yıllık kişi başı 19,3 kilogram tavuk eti tüketildiğini belirterek , " beyaz eti daha fazla tüketmemiz gerekiyor " dedi " fındıkta fiyat istikrarını iç tüketim artışı sağlar " fındık fiyatlarının serbest piyasa koşullarında oluştuğunu belirten durak fındık aş yönetim kurulu üyesi kadir durak , fiyat istikrarının iç tüketim ve ihracat artışıyla sağlanacağını söyledikeskinoğlu , kümesten canlı yayına başladıkeskinoğlu , tavuk üretimiyle ilgili kafalardaki soru işaretlerinin giderilmesi için tesislerinde internet üzerinden canlı yayına başladıbakanlıktan kıymaya sıkı denetimgıda tarım ve hayvancılık bakanlığı , gıdalarda mekanik kıyma kullanımını önlemek amacıyla son 9 ayda 108 bin denetim gerçekleştirdien fazla " helal gıda " belgesi i̇stanbul 'a verilditse tarafından yürütülen helal gıda belgelendirmesi faaliyetleri kapsamında 2011 yılından bugüne kadar 229 helal gıda belgesi verildiuno 5 yeni fabrika kuruyorbu yılı , yüzde 55 büyüyerek 310 milyon lira ciro ile kapatacak olan uno , 2018'de 1 milyar liralık ciro ile gıda alanında en büyük şirketler arasına girmeyi hedefliyor " i̇stanbul bal ve arı ürünleri fuarı " açılacakharbiye askeri müze ve kültür sitesi 'nde 22-24 kasım tarihlerinde düzenlenecek fuara , üretim izni almış firmalar katılacak.arz sıkıntısı şekerin tadını iyice kaçırdıdünya gıda fiyatları beş aydır görülen kesintisiz düşüşün ardından başta şeker , tahıl ve yağ fiyatlarındaki yükselişe paralel olarak ekimde bir önceki aya göre yüzde 1.3 arttı.fi̇skobi̇rli̇k 5 bin ton fındık almayı hedefliyorfi̇skobi̇rli̇k 'e fındık veren üreticisi sayının arttığını belirten yönetim kurulu başkanı bayraktar , bu sezon 5 bin ton fındık alımı hedeflediğini açıkladı.perfetti van melle türkiye , iip sertifikası ’ nın sahibi olduperfetti van melle türkiye , “ investors in people sertifikası ” nı kazanarak , gıda sektöründe i̇nsana yatırım sertifikası alan ilk şirket ünvanını da elde etti.üretilen gıdanın 1,3 milyar tonu çöpe atılıyorgıda tarım ve hayvancılık bakanlığı müsteşarı mirmahmutoğulları , 1 trilyon dolar değerinde üretilen gıdanın çöpe atıldığını belirtti.marmarabirlik 'ten i̇ngiltere 'de zeytin satışıbirlik , marketler zinciri tesco 'nun i̇ngiltere 'deki 230 şubesinde ve internet portalında , ürünlerinin satışına başladıkuru meyve ihracatı 1 milyar dolara yaklaştıkuru meyve ve mamulleri ihracatı ocak-eylül döneminde geçen yılın aynı dönemine göre yüzde 8,7 artarak 992 milyon 339 bin dolara ulaştı.dünya , türk suyunu sevdihamidiye kaynak suları aş genel müdürü kılıç , " türkiye su sektörünün 2013 yıl sonu ihracat rakamının 40 milyon doları bulmasını bekliyoruz .
bunun % 20 'sini hamidiye firması olarak yapmış olacağız " dedi.12345678sonraki sayfa courtyard by marriott glenwood springs105 wulfsohn rd.glenwood springs , co 816015 : 30pm obama comments on mexico deceptive , say law officersby jim kouri 2 vehicle crash on lake elmo and kuhlman man arrestedby montana news top columbian narcoterrorist extradited to new york cityby jim kouri syria is a " no win " for the u.s.by j.d. longstreet victoria heroica de 2013 demostró que el único dueño de venezuela es el pueblo " este fue un año de combate , batalla y enseñanza que ha demostrado lo que mucha gente ya sabe : el chavismo está vivo y es una fuerza social mayoritaria que será ... gobierno honrará memoria del líder revolucionario fabricio ojedael presidente de la república , nicolás maduro , anunció que el próximo 23 de enero de 2014 se llevará a cabo un acto de conmemoración en memoria del líder revolucionario ... gobierno nacional ratifica condena a atentados terroristas en volgogradoel presidente de la república , nicolás maduro , ratificó este lunes la condena del gobierno nacional a los ataques terroristas registrados en la ciudad rusa de volgogrado ...
victoria heroica de 2013 demostró que el único dueño de venezuela es el pueblo corpomiranda continuará ejecución de obras a favor del pueblo en 2014 en el 2014 , la corporación para el desarrollo de la cuenca del río tuy francisco de miranda ( corpomiranda ) continuará la ejecución de obras públicas para el beneficio de todo el pueblo mirandino el sector transporte nacional , integrado por más de 300.000 choferes , también acordó crear el comando estratégico operacional de transporte como una estructura de prevención y atención ante " cualquier amenaza , interna o externa , contra el servicio de transporte para el pueblo " el gobierno nacional , a través de la gran misión vivienda venezuela , entregó este lunes 40 apartamentos distribuidos en 4 edificios ubicados en la rinconada , caracas cuatro personas han sido detenidas por estar implicados en el robo de 2.000 kilos de alimentos de la red pública de mercados de alimentos ( mercal ) y que eran desviados a la arepera budare del este , en caracas indepabis encontró más de 2 toneladas de pernil de mercal en restaurante de el junquito rafael uzcátegui : últimos resultados electorales han definido el camino de la revolución inn : misión alimentación está enfrentando el problema de la desnutrición " there is a lot of empty space , and a lot of old buildings .
i think the two go hand in hand , " said clarke .
he said many are in foreclosure or owned by lenders .
the hope is , attracting more residents to one of albuquerque 's oldest neighborhoods is the key to its revitalization .
speaking in dar es salaam , mathias chikawe said : & ldquo ; angola is the only african country that has attained the best standards of utilisation of oil products and gas that are benefiting its citizens evenly .
the best way of managing the oil resource is to formulate policies that focus on the improvement of the citizen ’ s welfare . ’ ’ polices should clearly give room for the involvement of the local communities in the management and utilisation of oil and gas products for country ’ s economy to have chance in the competitive global liberal market .
according to chikawe , angola is one of the richest countries in hydrocarbons .
he said in angola a high percentage of the oil exploration and production is supervised by foreign companies but the economic situation for its people is good .
no one died at healthcare.gov : the phony crisis of obamacare the ravings of niall ferguson , the real world and the needless suffering of tens of millions the end of the assault on social security and medicare the tea party and the new york times shut down the government debt default : the only way to get to full employment ?
the economy is awful and larry summers should not be fed chair does the treasury secretary have to be a lobbyist for wall street in europe ?
deficits are bad and the sun goes around the earth corporate governance and ceo pay : the cesspool at the top the 3 percent cut to social security : aka the chained cpi killing the messenger : the downsizing and death of the postal service the son of the housing bubble : first-time homebuyers tax credit © 2013 indexmundi - all rights reserved irin | asia | uzbekistan irin was launched in 1995 , in response to the gap in humanitarian reporting exposed by the rwandan genocide and its aftermath .
it is an editorially independent , non-profit project of the un office for the coordination of humanitarian affairs ( ocha ) , funded entirely by voluntary contributions from governments and other institutions .
as a result of the changes , salaries and layoffs in tennessee now are based on performance evaluations , rather than seniority .
democratic gov. john hickenlooper drew on his own experience in pushing for the changes , noting that early in his career he was laid off from his job as a geologist .
“ it turned out i wasn 't as good a geologist as i thought , and i was forced to find something else , ” he said , referring to his second career as a successful restaurant owner .
“ when i found that something else , the first day i opened my restaurant , i walked into that place and i was alive . ”
grupo misionero pies descalzos , alberto enriquez and members of st. the usccb office will send them as submitted to the vatican by the end of january , 2014 ; at which time the office for the synod of bishop has the responsibility of taking all the resopnses worldwide and converting them into a working document for the october extraordinary synod .
know of my appreciation for your attentive and thoughtful responses to these questions .
all input is welcomed !
the diocese of des moines offers a number of ministries and resources to support families in their joys and challenges .
à tel aviv , si vous voulez vous faire soigner , il faudra d 'abord prouver que le 1er juillet 2013 , gabi barbash , directeur du centre médical ichilov à tel aviv , fait circuler des instructions pour interdire l ’ accès aux immigrés ou aux réfugiés africains désirant rendre visite à des patients , sauf en cas d ’ urgence .
officiellement pour des raisons de santé publique , afin de & bdquo ; minimiser les risques pour la santé des patients et du personnel « , rapporte le quotidien les africains venus pour une hospitalisation , des examens ou des soins médicaux sont cependant autorisés à entrer , explique le site .
les parents d ’ enfants malades ou les maris de femmes en travail peuvent également accéder à — patients et visiteurs — doivent subir une radio de la poitrine pour prouver qu ’ ils ne sont pas porteurs de la tuberculose , apprend-on encore .
a l ’ intérieur même de l ’ hôpital , les patients se voient discriminés , ajoute haaretz : les femmes enceintes et les enfants d ’ immigrés sont placés dans un espace séparé du reste de la maternité ou de l ’ aile pédiatrique .
selon un responsable d ’ ichilov , cette directive n ’ a qu ’ un but purement médical , réduire les risques de contagion .
en effet , d ’ après le quotidien maariv , en 2012 , 15 israéliens ont été diagnostiqués de la tuberculose contre 65 africains .
cette maladie nécessite la mise en place d ’ une quarantaine , d ’ un personnel spécifique et de soins individuels très coûteux , explique l ’ article .
la direction de l ’ hôpital ichilov se plaint depuis plusieurs années de devoir prodiguer un grand nombre de traitements médicaux aux migrants et aux réfugiés sans aucune compensation financière , avance haaretz .
pourtant , d ’ après le trésor public israélien , le coût supplémentaire engendré par ces patients est négligeable par rapport à ce que rapporte l ’ activité de l ’ hôpital .
d ’ après maariv , le nombre d ’ immigrés africains clandestins à tel aviv est estimé à 80.000 , soit environ 15 & percnt de la population .
beaucoup d ’ entre eux ont besoin de soins intensifs , notamment parce que le taux de naissances prématurées est deux fois plus élevé chez les africains que pour le reste de la population , en plus de la tuberculose , ils sont aussi particulièrement touchés par d ’ autres maladies : la population africaine représente un tiers des nouveaux porteurs du sida en israël et la moitié des diagnostics de malaria , indique la pauvreté dans laquelle vivent ces travailleurs clandestins ne fait qu ’ empirer leurs problèmes de santé , contractés dans leur pays d ’ origine et aggravés durant le voyage jusqu ’ en israël , déplore gabi barbash , qui estime à environ 50 millions de nis ( plus de 10 millions d ’ euros ) par an les frais la mesure discriminante répond-elle donc à une problématique économique ou de santé publique ?
autre perspective , plus sombre , elle ne serait qu ’ un témoignage we may use your personal information for the following purposes : vi .
lmg may also use personal information if it has reasonable grounds to believe the information could be useful when investigating a contravention of a federal , provincial or foreign law or in order to protect or defend a legal interest. v. as required by law , including by an order of any court , institution or body with jurisdiction or authority to compel the production of information , or in order to protect or defend a legal interest ; or lmg offers its customers and members choices for the collection , use and sharing of personal information .
if you are a subscriber of a lmg publication , please contact us by phone , email , or write us at the address given above and indicate your preferences in terms of the use of your personal information or if you would like to confirm we have your correct information. iii .
lmg may use your ip address to facilitate the diagnoses and remedy of a technical problem reported by you or our technical team .
what happens if there are changes in the privacy policy ?
the two snowmobiles quickly turn to small specks on the white snowfield .
mountaineer brian mccullough is in the lead , a thick rope secures his machine to one driven by scientist stephen hasiotis .
the two men are also harnessed and roped together .
they ’ re making the first snowmobile traverse on this route to a feature called wahl glacier .
a trail from a large field camp in the central transantarctic mountains had led them more than halfway , threading through a crevasse field , and up and down rises in the valley .
now they ’ re in virgin territory , and mccullough expertly steers to a large rock outcrop the team has dubbed " the castle ” near wahl glacier .
hasiotis , a paleontologist from the university of kansas , hopes to add to an already impressive trove of finds based on previous reports of fossils in the area .
hasiotis isn ’ t your typical antarctic fossil hunter .
marie tweet coordinates the activity with the expectation that it will be a “ wonderful principal kerrie hellyer said .
the shoe boxes are taken to lame deer , mont . , on the a recent outburst during an official ceremony illustrates the strain in anjouan between ikililou dhoinine ’ s and ahmed abdallah sambi ’ s supporters . ( ... )
rivalry between president ikililou dhoinine and supporters of his predecessor abdallah sambi have held up the examination of oil contracts by parliament . ( ... )
president ikililou dhoinine promoted , as is his wont , a new ambassador who is not ( ... )
the new ceo of the autorité portuaire des comores ( apc ) , mohamed djaffar , who was ( ... )
at first glance , turkey seems to be a bus that has lost control on an icy road .
the driver seems unable to control not only the bus and his own crew , but also himself .
he is cursing at the road , the passengers , his crew , the traffic laws , the panicked people on the streets and the very idea of being held accountable for his driving skills .
satire is an asymmetrical competition .
it is criticism of an actor who is politically and economically far superior to oneself .
report of the secretary-general on the situation in abyei ( s / 2013 / 706 ) a group of militiamen stormed el tom kitir camp for the displaced in mershing locality , south darfur , shot a camp resident and looted his shop in the early hours of friday morning .
october 21 , 2013 no matter how embarrassing it is to us , how painful or angering it may be ; still , there is no getting around the hard reality that the government of the us virgin islands has in no uncertain terms failed its people .
you name it ; whether it is the non-accountability for the misspending of ...
usvi officials in panama to explore transshipment opportunities for st croix newseconomyfinancehealth carereal estateretailwealthautosearningsenergymediapoliticscommentaryspecial reportsasiaeuropemarketspre-marketsu.s.asiaeuropestockscommoditiescurrenciesbondsfundsetfsinvestingfinancial advisorspersonal financecnbc explainsportfoliowatchliststock screenerfund screenertechmobilesocial mediaenterprisegamingcybersecuritysmall businessfranchisingfinancingmanagementvideolatest videodigital workshopu.s. videoasia videoeurope videoceo interviewsanalyst interviewsfull episodesclosed captioningshowswatch livecnbc u.s.cnbc asia-pacificcnbc europecnbc worldfull episodescnbcabout cnbcsite mapvideo reprintsadvertisecareershelpcontactprivacy policyterms of serviceindependent programming reportlatest news releasesrsscertain market data provided by thomson reutersdata also provided bydata is a real-time snapshot * data is delayed at least 15 minutesglobal business and financial news , stock quotes , and market data and analysis © 2014 cnbc llc . all rights reserved.a division of nbcuniversal virgin islands news headlines kuwait daily newspaper al wassat has named hh the father emir sheikh hamad bin khalifa al-thani the ‘ person of the year ’ for 2013 describing him as “ the builder of modern qatar ” and enumerated the unprecedented historic achievements & # 8230 ; infringement of privacy and our company will act accordingly .
see tajikistan | reliefweb one-fifth of the world ’ s children are the most vulnerable to vaccine preventable diseases .
during the 10th replenishment of the asian development fund ( adf xi ) , the asian development bank ( adb ) and adf donors agreed to pilot the disaster response facility ( drf ) in the adf xi period , 2013 – 2016 .
adb will report on the implementation progress of the drf at the adf xi midterm review , and discuss the future of the drf with the adb board of directors and adf donors at the adf xii negotiations .
tajikistan : torture unchecked in the absence of rule of law the police told me “ if we kill you we ’ ll chuck your body in the canal and no one will ever find you and we won ’ t get punished ” torture , beatings and other ill-treatment are routine in places of detention in tajikistan and thrive in a climate of widespread corruption and impunity , amnesty international said in a new report in which it urged the authorities to roundly condemn and stamp out the practice .
world + 13 others alerta 2013 !
informe sobre conflictos , derechos humanos y construcción de paz informe sobre conflictos , derechos humanos y construcción de paz es un anuario que analiza el estado del mundo en términos de conflictividad y construcción de paz a partir de cuatro ejes : conflictos armados , tensiones , procesos de paz , y dimensión de género en la construcción de paz .
a partir de estas temáticas , alerta 2013 !
thereare many resources available on the internet .
beloware a few sites recommended by the office of worship , diocese of duluth .
no olympics for ann curry , nbc keeping her in nyc kim kardashian donned a huge fur collar to hit up the ski slopes in utah with her sister kourtney and fiancé kanye west and radaronline.com has the photos of her & hellip ; readon suri cruise and katie holmes hit up a pool in miami and radaronline.com has the pictures of their holiday swim .
kardashians are having the ‘ christmas from hell ’ family insider claims feuding sister-in-laws melissa gorga and teresa giudice have finally teamed up and are showing the new gals a lesson in housewives hierarchy .
khloe kardashian : kris jenner wanted me to get a nose job — when i was 9-years-old !
khloe kardashian claims when she was just 9-years-old , she overheard her mother kris jenner telling one of her friends that her youngest daughter needed to get a nose job , radaronline.com & hellip ; readon why the puffy face ?
khloe kardashian ’ s bloated appearance could be ‘ injections ’ says plastic surgeon despite having a baby on the way and having more than 100 days of sobriety under his belt at one point , david arquette has sunk to a new low .
they & # 8217 ; re two of the most popular shows on television , but the networks are missing out on ad viewers because game of thrones and breaking bad were the most pirated tv & hellip ; readon robin roberts used her facebook to come out as a gay woman .
the house where amanda knox and raffaele sollecito are accused of butchering meredith kercher , has gone up for sale .
eliot spitzer liked to pretend he was an attacker , pin his hookers to their beds and choke them & # 8212 ; this according to one of his kinky sex partners , rebecca woodard , & hellip ; readon tiger woods isn & # 8217 ; t the only sports star who has starred in his own sex scandal . & hellip ; readon anderson silva suffered a horrifying leg break during a ufc bout on saturday . & hellip ; readon at the very real risk of incurring the hateful wrath of angry hoards of deranged beliebers , i & # 8217 ; m going to say there & # 8217 ; s a troubling number of athletes who have been befriended & hellip ; readon lise niemi has found love again and is engaged to be married .
eva longoria was practically aflame in a hot pink dress while out to dinner with new flame , jose antonio baston friday night . & hellip ; readon xavier is battling cancer but isn & # 8217 ; t letting go of her dream of becoming a makeup & hellip ; readon hot pics49-year-old courteney cox shows off her amazing body in los cabos , mexico on december 30 .
inside demi lovato & wilmer valderrama & # 8217 ; s secret romance : did he buy her an engagement ring ?
tweet repeat : kim kardashian shares new kuwtk trailer , james franco on set of yosemite and more ! # manicuremonday : the glittery nail look alessandra ambrosio will be rockin ’ on nye © 2013 radar online , llc | privacy policy | terms of use he observed that the new law should provide for stiffer fines for unlawful possession of chemicals .
the magic of the christmas season lights up children ’ s faces .
privacy policyterms of useabout uscontact usemploymentlinksventure marketing © 2013 bhg , inc . all rights reserved . irin | africa | east africa | uganda on the trail of the lrauganda diaries - starting afresh in the wake of warliving with the lra : the juba peace initiativelife in northern uganda © 2014 diocese of des moines , 601 grand ave , des moines , ia 50309 • 515.243.7653 • istoria macedoniei & # 8211 ; cezar dobre | cadran politic în istoriografia română , există două filoane preţioase ale cercetărilor privind europa de sud-est .
cel dintâi , are la origine crearea , în 1913 , la bucureşti , a institutului de studii sud-est europene , de către nicolae iorga , gheorghe munteanu-murgoci şi vasile pârvan .
cel de-al doilea , institutul de studii şi cercetări balcanice , fondat în 1938 , la bucureşti , de victor papacostea .
graţie acestor două instituţii ştiinţifice şi a unei pleiade de cercetători de înaltă valoare , în istoriografia română s-a conturat o direcţie de cercetare – aceea a studiilor privind europa de sud-est – , ilustrată prin contribuţii documentare şi interpretative , care au căpătat o largă recunoaştere ştiinţifică .
periodice precum „ revue historique du sud-est européen ” şi „ balcania ” au cunoscut cote de apreciere ştiinţifică , neîntâlnite în bibliografia istorică românească .
în descendenţa acestor iluştri înaintaşi , s-a plasat şi regretatul profesor gheorghe zbuchea , de la facultatea de istorie a universităţii din bucureşti .
bizantinist de formaţie , el a trecut , apoi , la studiul europei de sud-est în perioada modernă , având , astfel , avantajul de a cunoaşte rădăcinile istorice ale unor situaţii dintr-o arie , care a aparţinut , după formula fericită a lui dmitri obolenski , commonwealth-ului bizantin .
unul din elevii săi , domnul vladimir cezar dobre , şi-a consacrat teza de doctorat studiului problemei macedonene , a implicării româniei în problema macedoneană şi a activităţii macedo-românilor pe teritoriul ţării noastre .
oricine este , cât de cât , familiarizat cu istoria balcanică cunoaştea complexitatea problemelor din această arie , considerată drept „ butoiul de pulbere ” al europei .
tensiuni , lupte , războaie au devastat peninsula balcanică şi au pus pe istorici în faţa unor mari dificultăţi atât în reconstituirea trecutului , cât şi în interpretarea lui .
domnul vladimir cezar dobre nu s-a lăsat descurajat de aceste dificultăţi , şi , întemeiat pe o informaţie bogată , a izbutit să se orienteze în labirintul problemelor balcanice , să prezinte aspecte puţin cunoscute ale problemei macedonene – în ansamblul ei – şi să-l facă pe cititor să înţeleagă de ce şi astăzi problema macedoneană şi problema macedo-românilor rămâne deschisă .
firul ariadnei în străbaterea acestui labirint a fost pasiunea pentru istorie a autorului .
el a izbutit să ofere imaginea clară a unei chestiuni încărcate de patimi şi ură .
pentru cititorul român , soarta fraţilor noştri sud-dunăreni nu poate fi indiferentă .
aşa cum spunea , cu dreptate , nicolae iorga în aceşti fraţi ai noştri din sudul dunării este mai multă romanitate decât în noi pentru că s-au aflat un timp mai îndelungat sub stăpânirea romei .
istoria însă nu i-a răsfăţat , şi , astăzi , romanitatea sud-dunăreană traversează o perioadă dificilă .
un interes deosebit prezintă paginile consacrate de autor „ societăţii de cultură macedo-române ” , care a adunat în cadrul ei oameni devotaţi neamului lor atât de la nord , cât şi de la sud de dunăre , şi care au jucat un rol esenţial în afirmarea identităţii etnice şi în dezvoltarea culturii române .
volumul de faţă este nu numai o contribuţie istorică , dar şi un prilej de meditaţie .
cunoaştem – graţie investigaţiei domnului vladimir cezar dobre – un capitol agitat al istoriei balcanice şi , în acelaşi timp , suntem invitaţi să gândim asupra responsabilităţii noastre faţă de soarta românilor macedoneni .
« previousîmpotriva manipulării , vol 1 & # 8211 ; războiul secret din anul 1989 & # 8211 ; nina georgescu “ the kansas legislature , not the courts , has the power of the purse , ” brownback said .
men dressed as vikings take part in the torchlight procession as it makes its way through edinburgh for the start of the hogmanay celebrations in edinburgh , scotland .
around 80,000 people are expected in the city for the traditional new year celebrations .
a man watches as the chaparrastique volcano shoots a a cloud of gas and ash about three miles into the air in the city of san miguel , el salvador .
a man receives a shower of flower petals by shamans performing a new year ’ s ritual at agua dulce beach in lima , peru .
taifa stars did not live up to public expectations as they failed to qualify for the african cup of nations finals to held in south africa and for the 2014 fifa world cup to be staged in brazil .
in the ongoing tbl season , leaders banvit routed mersin büyükşehir belediyesi 94-63 in the last match of 2013 and maintained its undisputed leadership into the new year .
in last week 's games , second-placed anadolu efes beat türk telekom 69-75 on the road .
defending champion galatasaray triumphed over aykon ted ankara kolejliler 85-73 at home .
other results : torku konya selçuk üniv .
76 , olin edirne 88 ; royal halı gaziantep 72 , aliağa petkim 64 ; tofaş 76 , beşiktaş integral forex 74 ; pınar karşıyaka 64 , trabzonspor medical park 72 ; and fenerbahçe ülker 97 , uşak sportif 67 .
croatian forward bojan bogdanovic is undisputedly one of the main actors in the success of fenerbahçe in the euroleague .
the i̇stanbul powerhouse advanced to the top 16 as the leader of its group , leaving fc barcelona and cska moscow behind .
bogdanovic leads the top scorers ' list , averaging 18.1 points in the regular season , and his team is one of the serious contenders for the final four .
banvit has been one of the strongest contenders to win the domestic trophy for two seasons .
the balıkesir team is leading the tbl going into the new year , and it was the runner-up of last season .
galatasaray was the champion of the year under the tutelage of coach ergin ataman .
the i̇stanbul side won the trophy with a 4-1 aggregate triumph over banvit .
in this ongoing season , banvit has lost only one game in 13 weeks , and among the banvit casualties are league heavyweights galatasaray and fenerbahçe .
after leading the way for beşiktaş to the domestic trophy in the 2011-2012 season , coach ataman moved to beşiktaş 's archrivals galatasaray the next season , and the i̇stanbul powerhouse clinched its fifth tbl title under his helm .
ataman has taken his team to the top 16 of the topnotch euroleague this season and is aiming for the quarterfinals .
he admits that earning a final four berth and winning the championship is a dream for his side .
how can there be a priest shortage when our diocese has more than twice as many seminarians as it had 10 years ago ?
any or all of these models could appear in the recommendations submitted by deanery planning groups .
who serves on the diocesan planning committee and how were they selected ?
liz hoefferle — a former director of religious education and member of the bishop ’ s committee on catechesis for the diocese of duluth deacon rodger brannan — serves as a deacon at the cathedral of our lady of the rosary ; experience as an accounting professor and with statistics " una gran señal apareció en el cielo , una mujer vestida con el sol , con la luna bajo sus pies y sobre su cabeza una corona de doce estrellas .
estaba encinta .... " — apocalipsis 12 : 1-2 la imagen de nuestra señora de guadalupe se impreso en la capa de juan diego en 1531 cuatro pies y medio de altura representa a una mujer embarazada joven rodeada por los rayos del sol .
con su tez morena y mezcla de rasgos indígenas y españoles , la virgen de guadalupe representa la unidad de todas las personas .
ella mira hacia abajo con la expresión tierna , amorosa de una madre mirando a su hijo .
para los pueblos indígenas de méxico , la imagen contenía rico simbolismo .
fuentes : sitio web oficial de la basílica de santa maría de guadalupe en la ciudad de méxico , méxico ; nubes — en la imagen , la virgen está rodeada por las nubes , mostrando que está desde el cielo .
los indígenas saludó creían que venían de dios con la expresión : " entre la niebla y las nubes . "
el sol — hay tres soles representados en la imagen de nuestra señora de guadalupe .
el primer sol , no visible en la imagen , es cósmico ; echando luz sobre el lado izquierdo de la virgen y la creación de una sombra .
los rayos dorados del sol segundo , detrás de ella , significan que ella es la " madre de la luz " y mayor que el dios del sol azteca , quien ella eclipsa .
el tercer sol está representado por la flor de cuatro pétalos sobre su túnica , indicando que está a punto de dar a luz a el " sol todopoderoso " cruz medallón — alrededor de su cuello , maría lleva un medallón de oro grabado con una cruz .
para los pueblos indígenas , el medallón simbolizaba la consagración , así el medallón alrededor del cuello de maría significaba que ella estaba consagrada a jesús .
manos — los pueblos indígenas expresaron su oración no sólo por las manos , sino por todo el cuerpo .
en la imagen en la tilma , nuestra señora de guadalupe se muestra en una posición de oración , a bailar con la rodilla doblada en movimiento .
del manto y túnica — túnica de color de rosa , flor de maría simboliza la tierra , mientras que su manto turquesa , con estrellas representa los cielos .
el manto también indica que ella es monarquía ya que sólo los emperadores nativos usaban mantos de ese color .
negra cinta — la cinta negra alrededor de la cintura de maría demuestra que ella está esperando a un hijo .
para los aztecas , los extremos de la cinta en forma de trapezoide también representaban el final de un ciclo y el nacimiento de una nueva era .
flores — el vestido de maría está aadornado con nueve flores de oro , que simboliza la vida y la verdad .
las flores se componen de figuras que representan a un cerro y un río .
los indígenas consideran los ceros puntos más altos de encuentro entre dios y el pueblo .
vista hacia abajo , las flores toman la forma de corazones con las arterias ( venas ) que salen , representando la vida , que origina de dios .
cuatro pétalos jazmín — la flor sólo cuatro pétalos sobre túnica de maría aparece sobre su vientre .
los cuatro pétalos jazmín representa la deidad de los aztecas , ometéotl .
mientras que ometéotl se mantuvo distante , la imagen de nuestra señora de guadalupe demuestra que el único verdadero dios escogió para nacer de una mujer , haciéndolo accesible a todos .
luna — la virgen se alza sobre una luna .
la palabra azteca de méxico , " metz-xic-co , " significa " en " el centro de la luna .
la luna simboliza también el dios de la luna azteca , fertilidad , nacimiento y vida .
ángel — un ángel con las alas del águila aparece por debajo de los pies de maría .
según la creencia azteca , un águila entregó el corazón y la sangre de las víctimas de sacrificios a los dioses .
el ángel sostiene la virgen embarazada , lo que significa que el niño en su vientre es la ofrenda que agrada a dios .
recientemente , los obispos de todo el mundo aprendieron que nuestro santo padre , papa francisco ha llamado un sínodo extraordinario para el próximo mes de octubre de 2014 .
el tema para este encuentro será : desafíos pastorales de la familia en el contexto de la evangelización .
en el año 2015 , el vaticano convocará un seguimiento conjunto que buscará desarrollar " las pautas de la pastoral de la persona y la familia " .
como preparación para este sínodo extraordinario , un documento preparatorio fue desarrollado para ayudar a los obispos locales en la recopilación de aportes de los fieles de su diócesis .
yo estoy buscando la participación orante del clero , religioso y laicos fiel de la diócesis de cheyenne .
muchas experiencias de hoy en día son exploradas en la encuesta , tales como : uniones del mismo sexo , convivencia , programas de pastorales para divorciados y vueltos a casar , programas pastorales para parejas comprometidas y casadas y el proceso de anulación de matrimonio .
esta encuesta no es una encuesta de opinión pública , pero pretende ser una reflexión orante y respuesta a los retos de la vida familiar .
al principio del instrumento de encuesta , fieles encontrarán un enlace a la catequesis de fondo que se les pide que lea .
el instrumento en línea será utilizado para recopilar todas las respuestas enviadas .
individuos que son incapaces de responder todas las preguntas , deberá proporcionar respuestas a tantas preguntas como sea posible , especialmente aquellos que están indicados en negro .
se les pide a los fieles completar la encuesta no más tarde de diciembre 16 , 2013. participación en el programa no sería fácil ni barato .
por el contrario , requiere que los inmigrantes pagan una multa por su condición de ilegal , pagan impuestos , aprenden inglés y esperan varios años antes de ser elegible para aplicar para la residencia permanente y ciudadanía .
los inmigrantes que obtengan residencia permanente y ciudadanía mediante el cumplimiento de estos requisitos no son perdonados por su delito .
ellos están ganando su derecho a permanecer en los estados unidos .
es seguro decir que la amnistía de la palabra sigue siendo un pararrayos en el debate de inmigración , con muchos funcionarios electos , comentaristas y otros etiquetado propuestas de inmigración positiva toda con la palabra " a " .
sin embargo , a menudo , este tipo de propuestas es tergiversado una vez examinados y explicada .
según el diccionario webster , la palabra " amnistía " significa " un acto de perdonar ; olvido de delitos ; un indulto general de los delitos de los sujetos contra el gobierno … " la misma fuente define " perdonar " como " para conceder la remisión de un delito , deuda , multa o pena ; para liberar de las consecuencias de un acto perjudicial " .
desde una perspectiva de la fe , la amnistía no es una palabra malsonante .
como personas de fe , que son la mayoría de los estadounidenses , nos han concedido amnistía de un dios amoroso y misericordioso , que en su compasión nos ha ofrecido perdón y vida eterna .
tampoco debería amnistía plantear cualquier inquietud que se trate de una perspectiva civil .
compasión y perdón son importantes valores americanos , y como hemos visto constantemente durante los años , los estadounidenses son un pueblo compasivo .
aunque la idea de perdonar a aquellos que inmigrar sin documentación es ofensiva para algunos , es difícil entender cómo un programa que proporciona un camino a la ciudadanía puede ser creíble descrito como amnistía .
participación en el programa no sería fácil ni barato .
por el contrario , requiere que los inmigrantes pagan una multa por su condición de ilegal , pagan impuestos , aprenden a inglés y esperan varios años antes de ser elegible para aplicar para la residencia permanente y ciudadanía .
los inmigrantes que obtengan residencia permanente y ciudadanía mediante el cumplimiento de estos requisitos no son perdonados por su delito .
ellos están ganando su derecho a permanecer en los estados unidos .
no sólo es el programa un arduo camino justo a la ciudadanía , es buena política pública que beneficiaría a los estados unidos .
al permitir que los trabajadores indocumentados a permanecer en los estados unidos y el trabajo , nuestra nación seguiría recibiendo los beneficios de su trabajo en una variedad de industrias importantes , como la agricultura , servicios y construcción .
al mismo tiempo , mantenemos nuestra política de trabajo de muchos años de salarios justos y condiciones de trabajo seguras , protecciones actualmente negadas a los trabajadores indocumentados .
alentando a los indocumentados a salir de las sombras y se identifican al gobierno respaldaría objetivos de seguridad nacional .
y promovería la unidad de la familia asegurando que padres indocumentados de niños ciudadanos de estados unidos , 98.000 de los cuales fueron deportados y separados de sus hijos el año pasado — reciban estatus legal y permanecer con sus hijos .
a pesar de estas ventajas , los críticos de esta fórmula argumentan que un camino a la ciudadanía premia a infractores de la ley , o peor aún , ilegales y deben ser rechazadas únicamente en esta premisa .
la palabra " ilegales " aplicado a los seres humanos es ofensiva y no tiene cabida en el debate público .
ningún ser humano , impregnado de derechos dados por dios , es ilegal .
el cargo de " violador " es un bocado de sonido potente pero tiene menos influencia cuando se considera que los efectos de la desobediencia , así como la intención de los migrantes que violan la ley , no es perjudiciales sino útil para el bienestar económico de nuestra nación .
la intención del migrante es a trabajar y el efecto es que apoyan la economía de estados unidos rellenando cruciales empleos en industrias importantes .
por otra parte , debemos considerar si la política de inmigración de estados unidos es tan rota que crea condiciones que fomentar la inmigración ilegal y la trasgresión .
mientras que estados unidos ha gastado miles de millones de dólares en aplicación de frontera los últimos diez años , durante el mismo período el número de indocumentados se ha más que duplicado .
esto es principalmente porque , una vez que ejecute el guantelete de la frontera , más de ochenta por ciento de los inmigrantes encuentran trabajo con empresas estadounidenses .
este poderoso imán de empleos disponibles induce el flujo de inmigrantes en este país .
nuestras políticas de inmigración nacional envían señales mixtas , con un cartel de " mantener fuera " colgado en la frontera y un cartel de " se busca ayuda " en el lugar de trabajo .
el reto para los legisladores es reconocer que la propia ley es inconsistente y luego arreglarlo , primero creando un camino a la ciudadanía para los inmigrantes en los estados unidos y crear canales legales para los inmigrantes a venir y trabajar en forma legal , ordenada y controlada .
hasta la fecha , se ha caracterizado el debate público sobre inmigración en cierta medida por la desinformación y el etiquetado de los inmigrantes .
palabras como " amnistía , " y " transgresores de la ley " y " ilegales " en términos engañosos de arte que evocan la reacción emocional , no intelectual o razonada .
a pesar de la dura retórica , más la mitad de los estadounidenses apoyan un camino a la ciudadanía para los indocumentados , sin embargo se puede etiquetarse .
quizás estamos comenzando a darse cuenta de que todos nosotros , los inmigrantes y ciudadanos por igual , se han beneficiado de perdón en nuestras vidas .
el congreso será ir más allá de la emoción e incluyen un camino a la ciudadanía en cualquier proyecto de ley final .
para ello serviría el interés nacional a largo plazo y demostrar que soluciones políticas eficaces se basan en hechos , no retórica .
el más reverendo john c. wester es el obispo de la diócesis católica de salt lake city .
en los últimos 30 años , la población hispana ha mostrado un enorme crecimiento en los estados unidos .
los hispanos constituyen aproximadamente el 11 % de la población de estados unidos , incluyendo 3,6 millones que residen en el estado libre asociado de puerto rico .
aproximadamente 31 millones personas se identifican como hispanos .
se proyecta que la población hispana de estados unidos para convertirse en el mayor grupo minoritario en el año 2006 .
setenta por ciento de la población hispana se concentra en cuatro estados - california , texas , nueva york y florida .
mexicano es la subdivisión étnica más grande de los hispanos en los estados unidos , que comprende unos 63,3 % , seguido de central y suramericano ( 14,4 % ) , puerto rico ( 10.6 % ) , cubano ( 4,2 % ) y otros hispanos ( 7,4 % ) .
hispana es un término creado por el gobierno federal de estados unidos en la década de 1970 , en un intento de proporcionar un denominador común a una población grande y diversa , con conexión a la lengua española o la cultura de un país de habla hispana .
el término latino está ganando cada vez más aceptación entre los hispanos y que reflejan el origen de la población en américa latina .
tradicionalmente , la familia hispana es un grupo muy unido y la unidad social más importante .
el término familia generalmente va más allá de la familia nuclear .
los hispanos " unidad familiar " incluyen no sólo los padres y los niños , sino también familiares .
en la mayoría de las familias hispanas , el padre es el jefe de la familia , y la madre es responsable de la página de inicio .
individuos dentro de una familia tienen la responsabilidad moral de ayudar a otros miembros de la familia experimentando problemas financieros , desempleo , condiciones de insalubridad y otras cuestiones de la vida .
lazos familiares son muy fuertes : cuando alguien viaja a otro pueblo o ciudad para estudiar o para una corta visita ( por ejemplo , vacaciones , negocios , razones médicas ) , alojarse con familiares o con amigos de familiares es una práctica común .
las familias a menudo se reúnen para celebrar las vacaciones , cumpleaños , bautizos , primeras comuniones , graduaciones y bodas .
las familias hispanas incunden en sus hijos la importancia del honor , buenos modales y respeto a la autoridad y los ancianos .
preservar la lengua española dentro de la familia es una práctica común en la mayoría de los hogares hispanos .
hispanohablantes tienden hacia la formalidad en el trato entre sí .
un firme apretón de manos es una práctica común entre las personas como saludo y despedidas .
también son comunes prácticas entre mujeres y hombres y mujeres que son amigos cercanos o familia de felicitación un abrazo y un ligero beso en la mejilla .
la lengua española proporciona formas de dirección formal y no formal ( uso distinto de usted vs tu para el pronombre usted , amable y familiares comandos , el uso de títulos de respeto antes de nombres de personas como don o doña ) .
en contextos no formales , conversaciones entre hablantes de español son generalmente fuertes , rápidas y adornadas con dibujos animados gestos y lenguaje corporal para transmitir mejor puntos .
los hispanos dan gran importancia a y lugar de gran valor en apariencia y aspecto como un sentido del honor , dignidad y orgullo .
vestimenta formal es usada comúnmente por los hispanos a la iglesia , fiestas , reuniones sociales y trabajo .
zapatillas de tenis y jeans , sin embargo , son cada vez más populares entre las mujeres hispanas , especialmente en entornos de extraescolar .
los hispanos tienden a estar más relajado y flexible sobre el tiempo y la puntualidad que las personas de estados unidos .
por ejemplo , quienes son invitados a un evento de 8 no pueden empezar a llegar hasta las 8 : 30 o más tarde .
dentro de la comunidad hispana , no llegar a tiempo es un comportamiento socialmente aceptable .
los hispanos tienden ser reservados sobre hablar en público debido a su fuerte acento extranjero .
en el mundo hispánico , la religión ha desempeñado tradicionalmente un papel significativo en la actividad diaria .
más del 90 % del mundo hispanohablante es católico romano .
en los últimos años , otras denominaciones de fe han experimentado un crecimiento dentro de la comunidad hispana de estados unidos .
la iglesia influye en asuntos familiares de vida y de la comunidad , dando un significado espiritual a la cultura hispana .
cada comunidad local celebra el día de su santo patrón con mayor importancia y ceremonia como individuos hacen para cumpleaños personales .
como en otras partes del mundo , rastros de las religiones de los indios y afroamericanos de américa latina se encuentran en el catolicismo que practican los hispanos .
países hispanos celebran las fiestas internacionales más populares , en particular semana santa , nochebuena , navidad , día de año nuevo y día de los tres reyes .
además , cada país celebra el día de independencia .
la fiesta nacional del término se refiere a un feriado nacional ; las fiestas se refieren a festivales - locales , regionales o nacionales - que podrán realizarse sólo un día o durar varios días .
la mayoría de vacaciones está centrada en o tiene su origen en la religión .
muchas celebraciones de la iglesia católica oficialmente son designadas por el gobierno como vacaciones .
oficinas de gobierno nacional pueden ser cerradas o tener horas limitadas horas para fiestas locales o regionales .
en países de habla hispana , se sirve una comida ligera para el desayuno .
almuerzo , que se refiere como el almuerzo , suele ser la principal comida del día para hispanohablantes .
en algunos países , es costumbre que los miembros adultos de las familias y los niños regresen a casa desde el trabajo o la escuela durante unas dos horas y estar juntos para esta comida .
la siesta , que es un período de descanso tomado después del almuerzo , es conocido por ser una práctica común entre los adultos hispanos .
en la tarde , la merienda , un tentempié ligero de café y rollos o sándwiches , se sirve .
esta comida es a menudo muy informal y puede ser sólo para los niños .
en la noche , a menudo hasta 9 : 00 , la cena , una pequeña cena , concluye las comidas del día .
una vez que se establecieron en los estados unidos , la mayoría de los hispanos adopten el sistema de tres comidas .
mediodía y cenas son importantes para familia o eventos sociales .
especialmente cuando los huéspedes están presentes , la comida puede estar seguida de la sobremesa , un momento para convivir y hablar y tomar café o quizás una copa .
generalmente cuando la comida o porciones adicionales se ofrecen a los hispanos , tienden a aceptar sólo después de que se ofrece una segunda o tercera vez .
para enganchar completamente audiencia hispana en el proceso de aprendizaje , debe prestarse especial atención a obtener y mantener la confianza .
una mayor aceptación de los esfuerzos educativos se producirá por los estudiantes si los líderes de la comunidad hispana están involucrados en la planificación , entrega y evaluación de estos esfuerzos educativos .
tenga en cuenta que la distancia física entre los hispanos al sostener una conversación está mucho más cerca que en otras culturas .
exhibiendo el respeto de los alumnos es otro aspecto importante de la cultura hispana .
los maestros necesitan prestar atención individual a los estudiantes ( por ejemplo , saludo a cada alumno , entregar documentos a cada individuo en lugar de pasarlos por la fila , siendo sensible a diferentes culturas entre los hispanos , los materiales educativos en los niveles de lectura apropiada de la escritura ) .
las diferencias en los niveles educativos , idiomas , niveles de ingresos y valores culturales entre los hispanos necesitan ser considerados por los educadores de extensión al planificar programas educativos .
aunque los hispanos comparten el mismo idioma , sus culturas pueden variar considerablemente .
iglesias , bibliotecas locales y centros recreativos ( con arreglos de cuidado de niños , si es necesario ) pueden ser lugares apropiados para sostener programas educativos con audiencias hispanas .
entre los hispanos , se pasa información principalmente por boca a boca .
tiendas de abarrotes y las iglesias son los lugares principales que se encuentran personas , visitar e intercambiar información .
noble , j. y lacasa , j. 1991 .
manera de the hispanic : aspectos de comportamiento , actitudes y costumbres del mundo hispanohablante .
libros de pasaporte de chicago , illinois .
rodríguez , s. 1995 .
hispanos en los estados unidos : una visión de las características del grupo .
departamento de salud y servicios humanos .
sitio web : http : / / www / hhs.gov / about / heo / hgen.html we have all seen the infamous photo of the car and the sevenoaks specsavers shop window , but now it appears there is a new kid on the viral ...
keeping fresh in business , as in meat , is a sure fire way to stay a cut above the rest .
this is the advice of southborough butchers , the ...
jon muchmore says sevenoaks rugby club 's win against league leaders maidstone sends out a message to the rest of the league.however , he does ...
what is the overall perspective of the hizmet movement on politics and political parties ?
how were relations between the hizmet movement and the ak party in the past ?
why is there a rift now ?
what developments might we see in politics in upcoming months ?
why did the ak party insist on closing down the prep schools without offering a reasonable solution ?
what was the main reason for the disagreement between the ak party and the hizmet movement on this issue ?
is there more to the prep schools debate ?
gülen was against the climate of war created by the mavi marmara campaign is there a dispute between the hizmet movement and the ak party regarding the mavi marmara incident and the overall middle eastern policy ?
what do you say about the claim that the hizmet movement is aligned with the us and israel ?
actually , in retrospect , we see that the type of behavior gülen criticized led to the deaths of nine turkish citizens .
for a long time , certain & ldquo ; deep & rdquo ; networks within the state have sought to discredit the hizmet movement in the eyes of the public .
now , it is a gross act of unfairness and heinous slander for certain religious groups to try to raise suspicions about the independence of the hizmet movement and its loyalty to islam and turkey by referring to gülen ’ s criticisms of the mavi marmara campaign .
independence , internally and externally , is the hizmet movement ’ s strongest quality one of these countries is the us .
we plan to establish contact with csos in israel , but so far we haven ’ t taken steps to cooperate with any israeli cso on any project .
in particular , we are aware of the potential for educational activities in palestine , but we haven ’ t managed to take concrete steps on this due to the turmoil and chaos in the region .
the hizmet movement has never been controlled by any country or organization in turkey .
the hizmet movement is an independent movement .
it is not controlled or guided by any foreign state .
the hizmet movement is completely independent and autonomous in terms of its resources , projects and stance , and this independence is its distinguishing characteristic .
so what is the intention behind this distortion of the facts ?
i think this has been brought to our attention as an excuse for the purging of certain bureaucrats .
efforts to discredit the graft probe by saying the hizmet movement is behind it what is your perspective on the latest graft probe ?
what do you think about the & ldquo ; hizmet movement ’ s role & rdquo ; or the & ldquo ; involvement of external powers & rdquo ; in the police operations ?
government ’ s approach to the graft probe raises suspicions in people ’ s minds the graft probe is not politically motivated .
it is not a conspiracy devised by the hizmet movement to target the ak party .
are the corruption operations ideologically motivated , as the ak party suggests ?
as for the hizmet movement , it has never been involved in any plan seeking to divide or weaken the ak party , strip the ak party of recep tayyip erdoğan or engineer the political scene .
it has not , does not and will not pursue such a goal .
what do you think about the measures to obstruct the graft investigations ?
these measures raise concerns and undermine the credibility the ak party has gained in its 10 years in office , and they diminish the sympathy many people feel toward the ak party .
we cannot understand why the ak party is acting with such panic .
why did it reshuffle around 130 police chiefs ?
why can ’ t it rely on the judiciary ?
indeed , when referring to the ergenekon and balyoz trials , the prime minister had praised the police department and the judiciary .
what do you think are the reasons behind the ak party ’ s choice to block the graft probe ?
what will be the consequences of this attitude ?
but if the ak party fails to show a resolute stance , ensuring that the graft probe is conducted without intervention , this may seriously undermine public confidence in the ak party , and this is certainly a problem for the ak party in the run up to three critical elections .
gülen ’ s & ldquo ; conditional curse & rdquo ; ( mülaane ) was misinterpreted .
do you have any remark to make on this ?
gülen has never cursed any person because of any persecution to which he has been subjected .
regarding the breach of his personal rights , he always notes : & ldquo ; those who persecuted me or did wrong to me or hurt me should know that i forgive them for what they have done .
but the breach of the rights of the public will be dealt with by god , and i don ’ t have any option but to forgive them . & rdquo ; the conditional curse voiced by gülen is from verse 61 of the sura al imran in the quran , as well as in another verse .
why did gülen feel the need to say it ?
after the graft probe was launched , some groups insistently claimed that it was gülen who had pressed the button for the operation .
gülen ’ s lawyer made a public statement denying the accusations , but it wasn ’ t enough .
although gülen said : & ldquo ; such a form of conduct does not befit us , as we are solely concerned with the peace , happiness and coexistence of people .
it is the duty of the state authority to deal with such matters , & rdquo ; certain media outlets persistently continued to blame the hizmet movement for orchestrating the operation .
gülen is very sensitive about the use of public property gülen has high religious sensitivities .
during his life , he has been painstakingly careful about the use of public property .
for instance , we know that he didn ’ t use a paper from public property for personal matters when he was doing his compulsory service in the army .
he has repeatedly underlined that it is the duty of muslims to pay the utmost care to the use of public property .
what factors are involved in the break-up of the alliance between the hizmet movement and the ak party ?
turkish armenian : i 'd defend turkey against our enemies as we did in the battle of the dardanelles former minister says ruling ak party has not internalized pluralism yet february 21 , 2013 philipsburg , st maarten -- the island of st martin and st maarten now has a free app for iphone and android in four languages , providing comprehensive and current information about what ’ s happening and is interesting for visitors and locals .
suspect arrested in deaths of us couple in st maarten © 2013 indexmundi - all rights reservedson murders parents on slaughter pen road in haleyville police : waukee standoff has ended mon dec 30 , 2013 4 : 13 pm est another wave of snow headed in now mon dec 30 , 2013 4 : 13 pm est police : man dead from self-inflicted gun wound in waukee standoff mon dec 30 , 2013 6 : 13 pm est man comes out of bettendorf home , ending standoff mon dec 30 , 2013 10 : 13 am est top iowa stories of 2013 mon dec 30 , 2013 10 : 13 am est would you like information on how to advertise with us ?
or how to submit articles ?
please click a write-in campaign in the municipal election at max has resulted in the ouster of mayor jody gullickson .
dara schroeder is the new family nurse practitioner at the garrison family clinic .
the unofficial kickoff to summer in the garrison area is this weekend .
it was a sad day in the community of ryder this past thursday .
salvation army humanitarian work on manus and nauru to end newspaper software | connect email marketing | express website builderallergan ceo smooths out the wrinkles - barrons.com read the full story in the new edition of costa almería news - out nowread more in this week 's print edition or go to e-paper > > obama rides a tiger he dare not dismountby j.d. longstreet billings man jerrod dacy patrick , accused of trying to run over his former employerby montana news new drug hits the streets in at least six statesby montana news billings homes that are on the meth contaminated property listby montana news sign up here for our daily news updates .
you can unsubscribe at any time .
zimbabwe 's humanitarian crisiscabindaland reform in southern africakuito - a legacy of war i ran in what felt like some of the most be found , and all of a sudden you see a soccer or a scored goal , but you can see it and feel can feel it and while i know i did not rid the world of hunger , i did leave a small part speaking during the 18th sommet international du gaz et de l ’ electricite organized ( ... )
hamed koffi zarour has emerged as one of the most active lobbyists in touting algerian ( ... )
exista pareri diferite despre modul în care ar trebui abordat programul de înarmare nucleara al coreei de nord .
pentru liderii politici sud-coreeni , dorinta washingtonului de a nu negocia direct cu phenianul reprezinta o bariera în calea încheierii unui acord care ar rezolva în mod pasnic actuala criza nucleara .
aceasta viziune este împartasita , de asemenea , de catre rusia , china si japonia .
pe de alta parte , oficialii americani sunt sceptici în legatura cu posibilitatea de eliminare permanenta a capacitatilor nucleare nord-coreene prin negocierea unui acord , si cred ca sunt necesare presiuni si dialoguri multilaterale pentru evitarea recompensarii comportamentului coreei de nord .
asa cum promitea presedintele george w. bush în discursul privind starea natiunii , & # 8220 ; america si restul lumii nu vor fi santajate & # 8221 ; .
aceste abordari diferite se datoreaza în principal interpretarilor diferite ale obiectivelor nord-coreene .
coreea de nord sustine ca nu doreste sa santajeze pe nimeni , însa una din sarcinile principale în rezolvarea actualei crize este chiar evaluarea adevaratelor intentii ale phenianului .
privesc liderii nord-coreeni armele nucleare ca un mijloc de reunificare prin forta a peninsulei coreene ?
au decis ei ca armele nucleare sunt esentiale pentru supravietuirea regimului , facând imposibila negocierea unui acord ?
sau acest program de înarmare reprezinta un truc la care coreea de nord este dispusa sa renunte , daca pretul este corect ?
este greu sa gasim raspunsuri la aceste întrebari .
o problema ar fi faptul ca informatii sigure despre dinamica interna a procesului de luare a deciziilor în coreea de nord sunt foarte rare .
o alta problema o reprezinta faptul ca liderii nord-coreeni au puternice interese de a-si ascunde adevaratele intentii , pentru a-si maximiza capacitatea de negociere si pentru a minimiza reactiile internationale referitoare la programul de înarmare nucleara .
dificultatea stabilirii intentiilor nord-coreene a fost demonstrata în timpul negocierii cadrului de acorduri din 1994 , în urma carora coreea de nord a înghetat programul de înarmare nucleara , obtinând în schimb pacura si doua reactoare .
acest acorduri au limitat capacitatile coreei de nord de producere a plutoniului , însa nu se stie daca aceasta tara nu avea deja destul plutoniu pentru fabricarea armelor nucleare .
un obiectiv cheie al nord-coreenilor în timpul negocierilor a fost pastrarea cât mai îndelungata a ambiguitatii în ceea ce priveste statutul nuclear , pentru maximizarea capacitatii de negociere .
din acest motiv , negociatorii nord-coreeni au refuzat cererile statelor unite pentru efectuarea unor inspectii .
daca inspectorii ar fi descoperit ca nord-coreenii nu au destul plutoniu pentru fabricarea armelor nucleare , americanii nu ar mai fi luat în serios coreea de nord , reducându-i acesteia din pârghiile de negociere .
în mod contrar , daca s-ar fi descoperit ca exista destul plutoniu pentru fabricarea armelor nucleare , statele unite nu ar mai fi fost de acord cu semnarea unui tratat .
în cele din urma , prin cadrul de acorduri s-au cerut inspectii speciale pentru a determina istoria nucleara a coreei de nord , înainte de livrarea componentelor cheie ale celor doua reactoare .
acest compromis a permis pastrarea ambiguitatii asupra capacitatilor nucleare nord-coreene si , implicit , mentinerea puterii de negociere asupra statelor unite , pentru înca opt ani .
actuala criza a început în octombrie 2002 , atunci când oficialii americani au confruntat coreea de nord cu dovezi ale unui program de îmbogatire a uraniului , ceea ce reprezinta a doua cale de fabricare a armelor nucleare .
oficialitatile nord-coreene au recunoscut existenta unui program nuclear si au început sa faca presiuni pentru ca statele unite sa negocieze cu ei , în ciuda insistentelor guvernului american de a nu & # 8220 ; recompensa & # 8221 ; aceasta atitudine prin concesii .
pe masura ce criza s-a agravat , administratia bush a continuat sa refuze negocieri directe cu coreea de nord , daca aceasta nu termina programul de îmbogatire a uraniului .
statele unite au încercat sa mobilizeze presiuni internationale asupra nord-coreenilor , si sa gaseasca un forum multilateral de consultari , care sa cuprinda si tarile importante din asia de est .
nord-coreenii spun ca doresc din partea statelor unite recunoasterea suveranitatii tarii lor , asigurarea securitatii si neobstructionarea dezvoltarii economice .
oficiali nord-coreeni au declarat ca , în ciuda faptului ca s-au retras din tratatul de neproliferare nucleara , nu intentioneaza sa produca arme nucleare & # 8220 ; în acest moment & # 8221 ; .
dar nu este înca clar daca programul de îmbogatire a uraniului ar trebui interpretat ca o dovada ca nord-coreenii au intentionat tot timpul sa nu respecte cadrul de acorduri , daca acesta ar fi fost o bariera în calea unei posibile rezilieri a acestor acorduri , sau daca nord-coreenii au vazut noi pârghii de negociere datorate erodarii cadrului de acorduri .
dificultatea stabilirii cu acuratete a intentiilor nucleare ale coreei de nord complica foarte mult sarcina de a formula o politica coordonata si efectiva de raspuns .
daca liderii nord-coreeni sunt hotarâti sa obtina capacitati de fabricare a armelor nucleare , atunci obiectivul politicii de raspuns ar trebui sa fie gasirea unei modalitati de a-i opri , sau cel putin de a diminua impactul pe care l-ar avea aceste arme asupra securitatii din asia de est si asupra regimului de neproliferare nucleara .
însa , daca liderii nord-coreeni sunt dispusi sa abandoneze programul de înarmare nucleara în schimbul asigurarii securitatii si asistentei economice , atunci obiectivul ar trebui sa fie încheierea unui acord prin care sa se confirme înlaturarea capacitatilor nucleare .
divergentele asupra motivelor care au stat la baza actiunilor nord-coreene au cauzat scindari referitoare la politica vizând coreea de nord atât în interiorul administratiei bush , cât si în cadrul legaturilor dintre statele unite si aliatii sai din asia si a relatiilor cu alti actori regionali , cum ar fi china si rusia .
serioase scindari în interiorul administratiei bush , referitoare la politica coreei de nord , au fost evidente înca de la instalarea acestei administratii .
unii oficiali au dorit sprijinirea politicii presedintelui sud-coreean , kim dae-jung , de continuare a negocierilor cu coreea de nord , care au început la sfârsitul administratiei clinton .
aceasta pozitie a reflectat convingerea ca liderii nord-coreeni ar putea renunta la importante capacitati militare , pentru un pret corect .
alti oficiali sustineau retragerea din cadrul de acorduri si adoptarea unei politici mai dure , orientate spre schimbarea regimului de la phenian .
aceasta pozitie se baza pe prezumtiile ca liderii nord-coreeni nu puteau fi de încredere în aderarea la anumite acorduri , si ca ei nu ar renunta niciodata la capacitatile nucleare .
aceste scindari au fost facute publice în martie 2001 , atunci când secretarul de stat , colin powell , a declarat ca statele unite se pregatesc sa reia negocierile cu coreea de nord , pentru a fi contrazis de catre bush trei zile mai târziu .
revizuirea ulterioara a politicii americane fata de coreea de nord a durat patru luni , în principal datorita luptei dintre moderatii si radicalii din interiorul administratiei bush .
au fost luate în considerare diferite optiuni , printre care si retragerea din cadrul de acorduri , însa , în final , s-a recomandat & # 8220 ; o mai buna implementare & # 8221 ; a cadrului , combinata cu eforturi de negociere a unui alt acord , referitor la programele de dezvoltare a rachetelor balistice cu raza lunga de actiune , la exporturile de astfel de rachete , si la desfasurarea fortelor conventionale .
mai buna implementare & # 8221 ; se referea la accelerarea eforturilor de a convinge coreea de nord sa accepte inspectii ale capacitatilor nucleare din partea agentiei internationale pentru energie atomica ( iaea ) .
scopul declarat era acela de a obtine amânarea constructiei reactoarelor , însa inspectiile erau destinate , de asemenea , înlaturarii ambiguitatii referitoare la capacitatile nucleare nord-coreene .
perioada dintre iunie 2001 si octombrie 2002 a fost marcata de contacte diplomatice sacadate între statele unite si coreea de nord , punctate de amenintari , insulte si incidente militare .
administratia bush si-a exprimat dorinta de a se întâlni cu liderii nord-coreeni & # 8220 ; oricând , oriunde si fara preconditii & # 8221 ; , însa eforturile de demarare a negocierilor au fost în mod repetat obstructionate de catre lipsurile si declaratiile guvernamentale .
deoarece administratia bush a reactionat la atacurile teroriste din 11 septembrie prin sublinierea legaturilor dintre terorism si armele de distrugere în masa , radicalii au facut presiuni pentru o politica mai dura referitoare la coreea de nord .
discursul tinut în 2002 de catre presedintele bush , privind starea natiunii , eticheta coreea de nord ca facând parte din & # 8220 ; axa raului & # 8221 ; , amenintând statele unite .
cu toate ca oficiali ai departamentului de stat continuau sa-si exprime dorinta de a negocia cu nord-coreenii , fragmente din reviziuirea situatiei nucleare a statelor unite au aratat ca pentagonul facea planuri pentru eventualitatea unor atacuri nucleare împotriva a sapte tari , inclusiv coreea de nord .
anumite scurgeri de informatii sugerau ca aceasta va fi urmatoarea tinta , dupa irak .
toate acestea au constituit impedimente ale importantei vizite pe care adjunctul secretarului de stat , james kelly , a efectuat-o la phenian , în octombrie 2002 .
interpretarile diferite ale intentiilor nord-coreene au dus , de asemenea , la deteriorari ale relatiilor sua cu aliatii sai , precum si ale celor cu china si rusia .
administratia bush a facut eforturi formale de a-si coordona pozitia fata de coreea de nord cu cea adoptata în aceeasi privinta de catre coreea de sud si japonia , prin vizite la nivel înalt si întâlniri regulate ale comisiilor de supraveghere .
cu toate acestea , eforturile au contat prea putin pentru rezolvarea fundamentala a identificarii intentiilor nord-coreene si a abordarilor diferite asupra politicilor de raspuns .
desi coreea de sud si japonia sunt îngrijorate de potentialul armamentului de distrugere în masa al coreei de nord , majoritatea analistilor sud-coreeni si japonezi considera ca obiectivul nord-coreenilor este acela de a negocia un acord cu statele unite , care sa includa garantii de securitate , relatii politice si economice mai bune , si asistenta financiara .
în timp ce americanii considera programele nucleare si de dezvoltare a rachetelor balistice cu raza lunga de actiune nord-coreene ca o mare amenintare , coreea de sud apare relativ calma , poate si pentru ca majoritatea sud-coreenilor nu cred ca cei din nord vor folosi aceste arme împotriva lor .
coreea de sud , japonia , rusia si china vad refuzul statelor unite de a negocia direct cu coreea de nord ca o cauza a actualei crize nucleare .
cu toate ca aceste state sustin ca peninsula coreeana sa fie libera de arme nucleare , ele sunt sceptice ca mobilizarile internationale ale administratiei bush si refuzul acesteia de a negocia direct cu coreea de nord , vor avea rezultate pozitive .
totodata , ele sunt îngrijorate ca o marginalizare a phenianului poate duce coreea de nord la un comportament neprevizibil si periculos , ce s-ar putea solda cu un conflict militar .
disensiunile din interiorul administratiei bush au creat confuzii în rândul aliatilor sua si au subminat deseori initiativele sud-coreene si japoneze de a negocia cu coreea de nord .
de exemplu , în timpul vizitei sale de la washington , din martie 2001 , presedintele kim dae-jung a facut apel ca statele unite sa & # 8220 ; masoare oportunitatea & # 8221 ; de a negocia cu nord-coreenii , pentru a fi pus într-o situatie stânjenitoare atunci când bush a declarat , în timpul conferintei de presa comune , ca nu are încredere în kim jong ii .
multi sud-coreeni au speculat faptul ca divergentele din cadrul administratiei bush au fost intentionate , având scopul de a discredita politica coreei de sud si de a împiedica miscarea de unificare a peninsulei , ceea ce a dus la cresterea sentimentelor anti-americane si la tensionarea relatiilor bilaterale .
parerile diferite vizând aderarea coreei de nord la un acord negociat reprezinta principala cauza a dezacordurilor dintre statele unite si coreea de sud referitoare la pozitia adoptata fata de nord-coreeni .
pe de alta parte , aceste dezacorduri reflecta si dorinta seulului pentru o evolutie politica graduala a regimului nord-coreean , urmarind reducerea costurilor reunificarii , un obiectiv care este în contradictie cu dorinta anumitor oficiali americani , care încearca rasturnarea sistemului politic condus de catre kim jong ii .
care din urmatoarele abordari sunt corecte , depinde , în mare masura , de ceea ce doreste coreea de nord .
în stabilirea intentiilor nucleare nord-coreene , ar trebui sa se tina cont de cinci scenarii : liderii nord-coreeni au decis ca armele nucleare sunt esentiale pentru securitatea tarii lor acest scenariu sustine ca liderii nord-coreeni se simt amenintati de capacitatile militare superioare ale statelor unite si ca americanii au în vedere schimbarea regimului , ce va fi precedata de atacuri militare .
din acest motiv , nord-coreenii au ajuns la concluzia ca armele nucleare reprezinta singurul mijloc pentru garantarea supravietuirii regimului în fata acestor amenintari .
acest scenariu este în concordanta cu interpretarile serviciilor de informatii americane , care considera ca nord-coreenii au produs una sau doua arme nucleare în ultima jumatate a anilor & # 8217 ; 90 .
daca acest scenariu ar fi adevarat , probabil ca nici un acord pasnic nu ar putea opri programul de înarmare nucleara al coreei de nord , cu exceptia cazului în care liderii de la phenian s-ar razgândi în aceasta privinta .
statele unite , coreea de sud , japonia si china vor trebui fie sa recurga la actiuni militare si sa distruga arsenalul nuclear al coreei de nord , fie sa se obisnuiasca cu gândul la acesta si sa se bazeze pe intimidari si sisteme de rachete defensive .
multiplele încercari nord-coreene de obtinere a armamentului nuclear si eforturile de dezvoltare a rachetelor balistice cu raza lunga de actiune indica faptul ca regimul a alocat resurse considerabile în acest domeniu .
pe de alta parte , coreea de nord a irosit un numar de oportunitati de accelerare a programelor de dezvoltare a armelor nucleare si a rachetelor balistice .
daca nu ar fi semnat cadrul de acorduri , ar fi putut termina constructia reactoarelor de 50 si 200 megawati si ar fi reprocesat combustibilul pentru producerea de plutoniu .
pâna acum , regimul ar fi avut material fisionabil pentru cel putin 150-200 de arme nucleare .
de asemenea , coreea de nord a declarat un moratoriu unilateral asupra testelor de zbor a rachetelor cu raza lunga de actiune .
liderii nord-coreeni sunt dispusi sa renunte la programele nucleare si de dezvoltare a rachetelor , în schimbul unui acord care sa le garanteze securitatea si suveranitatea tarii lor acest scenariu sustine ca liderii nord-coreeni se simt amenintati de capacitatile militare superioare ale statelor unite si de eforturile americane de a izola economic si politic coreea de nord .
coreenii au urmarit dezvoltarea armamentului nuclear si a rachetelor balistice cu raza lunga de actiune pentru a-si dezvolta pârghii de negociere în crearea unor noi relatii cu statele unite , care sa asigure supravietuirea regimului si un cadru care sa permita reforme economice .
dovezile acestui scenariu includ declaratiile repetate ale liderilor nord-coreeni despre dorinta lor de a negocia cu statele unite restrictionarea armamentului nuclear si a rachetelor balistice , si limitarea exportului de astfel de rachete .
semnarea acordurilor , moratoriul testelor de zbor si discutiile cu administratia clinton indica faptul ca nord-coreenii doreau limitarea capacitatilor militare .
din aceasta perspectiva , eforturile coreei de nord de a dezvolta capacitati de îmbogatire a uraniului reprezinta încercari de a gasi un atu în negocierea pentru concesii economice si de securitate .
este posibil chiar ca aceste eforturi sa se fi dorit a fi descoperite de catre americani , pentru a fi & # 8220 ; vândute & # 8221 ; .
succesul precedent al nord-coreenilor de a convinge statele unite sa mareasca ajutorul alimentar în schimbul permiterii unor inspectii la o centrala de la kumchang-ri ( care au demonstrat ca aceasta nu detinea echipament nuclear ) , sugera ca un bluf nuclear nu ar fi exclus .
pe de alta parte , statele unite , japonia , coreea de sud si china ar dori sa vada ca nord-coreenii încep reforme politice si economice .
poarta catre relatii mai bune , care sa sprijine reformele economice , este larg deschisa , însa coreea de nord ezita sa paseasca prin ea .
amenintarile la adresa securitatii nu sunt necesare pentru a avea relatii mai bune , si chiar pot submina eforturile de îmbunatatire a acestora si a perspectivelor de cooperare economica .
de asemenea , intentiile demonstrate ale coreei de nord de a încalca tratatele internationale vor face greu de negociat viitoare acorduri , deoarece încrederea statelor unite a scazut .
liderii nord-coreeni doresc atât arme nucleare ( ca ultima garantie a securitatii ) , cât si relatii mai bune cu statele unite , japonia si coreea de sud conform acestui scenariu , liderii nord-coreeni au încercat sa-si mentina optiunile deschise prin derularea programelor de înarmare nucleara si de dezvoltare a rachetelor balistice , cautând , în acelasi timp , îmbunatatirea relatiilor cu statele unite , japonia si coreea de sud .
o posibilitate ar fi ca liderii de la phenian sa vada aceste programe ca o asigurare pentru cazul în care nu ar putea negocia un acord cu statele unite referitor la securitatea regimului nord-coreean .
daca sua ar veni cu o oferta care sa garanteze supravietuirea regimului , coreea de nord ar fi dispusa sa renunte la programele de înarmare nucleara si de dezvoltare a rachetelor balistice .
în caz contrar , coreenii vor continua dezvoltarea unei forte operationale dotate cu arme nucleare si rachete balistice cu raza lunga de actiune .
o alta posibilitate ar fi ca liderii nord-coreeni sa fi intentionat sa triseze înca de la început .
acordurile de restrictionare a programelor si a exporturilor de rachete au fost create în scopul de a obtine avantaje financiare si de a câstiga timp pâna când coreea de nord sa dezvolte capacitati nucleare operative .
de partea cealalta , liderii de la phenian pot crede ca statele unite , japonia si coreea de sud vor trece cu vederea capacitatile nucleare mici si ambigue ale lor , si ca aceste state doresc oricum îmbunatatirea relatiilor .
politica dusa de sud-coreeni si recentele eforturi ale japonezilor de normalizare a relatiilor diplomatice , în ciuda temerilor legate de rachetele nord-coreene , reprezinta un motiv pentru acest scenariu .
atât scenariul asigurarii , cât si cel al nerespectarii angajamentelor , explica unele aspecte ale comportamentului coreei de nord , cum ar fi scala redusa a programului de înarmare nucleara , dorinta de acceptare a limitarii temporare a arsenalului nuclear ( facând , în acelasi timp , eforturi de dezvoltare a unor capacitati mai avansate ) , si dorinta de a avea relatii cu statele unite , japonia si , la o scara mai mica , cu coreea de sud .
aceste scenarii sugereaza ca liderii nord-coreeni fie au estimat în mod eronat reactia internationala de raspuns la politica lor nucleara , fie au considerat ca efectele negative pot fi depasite odata cu semnarea unui acord .
lideri sau factiuni nord-coreene sunt de acord ca armele nucleare sau negocierea unui acord cu statele unite nu reprezinta cea mai buna cale de asigurare a securitatii acest scenariu priveste comportamentul coreei de nord ca un rezultat al schimbarii puterii între diferite factiuni interne nord-coreene .
una din factiuni , orientata spre armata , poate crede ca armele nucleare sunt esentiale pentru securitatea coreei de nord ; cealalta factiune considera ca negocierea unui acord ofera mai multa securitate .
fiecare din aceste factiuni are abilitatea de a întreprinde actiuni internationale în mod independent .
acest scenariu ar putea explica de ce , în unele cazuri , coreea de nord coopereaza si cauta semnarea unor acorduri , iar în alte cazuri submineaza într-un mod agresiv negocierile .
de asemenea , ofera o posibila explicatie pentru programul de îmbogatire a uraniului urmarit de catre nord-coreeni .
deoarece unele beneficii promise în urma acordurilor au fost amânate ( ca , de exemplu , aprovizionarea reactoarelor si încercarile de normalizare a relatiilor cu statele unite ) , balanta puterii de la phenian s-ar fi putut schimba , îndepartându-se de la respectarea angajamentelor , catre eforturi de dezvoltare a armamentului nuclear , pentru asigurarea securitatii coreei de nord .
pe lânga acestea , eforturile precedente ale nord-coreenilor de a obtine tehnologii de îmbogatire a uraniului si echipamente de productie din pakistan , sugereaza o decizie de nerespectare a acordurilor sau de a face presiuni pentru rezilierea lor .
desi acestea ar putea explica comportamentul coreei de nord , stilul nord-corean de negociere demonstreaza câteodata atente eforturi de a controla atmosfera negocierilor si de a maximiza presiunile asupra partenerilor prin actiuni si declaratii bine coordonate .
acest tip de control este dificil de explicat în cazul scenariului factional .
de asemenea , este important de mentionat ca schimbarea balantei puterii între factiunile de la phenian poate face grea , daca nu imposibila , negocierea unui acord durabil .
liderii nord-coreeni doresc arme nucleare si rachete balistice pentru actiuni ofensive împotriva coreei de sud toate scenariile precedente pleaca de la premisa ca obiectivul principal al liderilor nord-coreeni este apararea , asigurarea supravietuirii actualului regim .
o presupunere alternativa este ca nord-coreenii vad în armele nucleare un mijloc ofensiv pentru obtinerea unificarii peninsulei în termenii lor .
alianta militara a statelor unite cu coreea de sud este principalul obstacol pentru o reunificare prin forta .
acest scenariu subliniaza riscul potential reprezentat de armele nucleare si de rachetele balistice cu raza lunga de actiune nord-coreene pentru teritoriul statelor unite , daca sua ar interveni ca raspuns la o invazie sau o coercitie militara asupra coreei de sud .
aceasta problema a fost ridicata de nenumarate ori de catre sustinatorii sistemului defensiv cu rachete , care afirma ca un stat paria ( & # 8220 ; rogue state & # 8221 ; ) ar putea folosi capacitati nucleare pentru a împiedica statele unite sa intevina într-un conflict .
libertatea americana de actiune , spun ei , poate fi mentinuta numai prin rachete defensive .
acest scenariu este în concordanta cu alte aspecte ale doctrinelor militare si a desfasurarilor de trupe nord-coreene .
majoritatea unitatilor militare ale coreei de nord sunt situate în apropierea zonei demilitarizate , fiind pozitionate si antrenate pentru operatiuni ofensive .
capacitatile de fabricare a armelor chimice si biologice , masive bombardamente ale artileriei si operatiuni ale fortelor speciale ar putea fi folosite pentru a sprijini o invazie a sudului .
din aceasta perspectiva , interesul manifestat de coreea de nord pentru negocierea unui acord prin care sa renunte la armele nucleare si la rachetele balistice , ar putea fi în scopul mascarii eforturilor de achizitionare a unor noi capacitati ofensive .
pe de alta parte , coreea de nord spera ca , din cauza ei , sa apara intrigi între statele unite si coreea de sud , care sa slabeasca sau sa dizolve alianta dintre cele doua state .
( declaratiile sud-coreenilor conform carora seulul ar trebui sa joace rolul de mediator între phenian si washington sugereaza faptul ca o astfel de strategie ar putea avea o doza de succes . )
un contra-argument al acestui scenariu ar fi faptul ca abilitatea nord-coreenilor de a lansa o invazie asupra sudului s-a diminuat ca urmare a prabusirii economiei .
coreea de sud a continuat modernizarea dotarilor militare si a programelor de instruire , în timp ce coreea de nord nu a importat sisteme noi militare de mai bine de zece ani .
armata nord-coreeana duce lipsa de piese de schimb pentru sistemele importate , iar limitarea aprovizionarii cu carburanti a influentat programele de instruire .
daca obiectivul coreei de nord ar fi fost invadarea coreei de sud , probabil ar fi facut eforturi de obtinere a armelor nucleare si a rachetelor balistice cu raza lunga de actiune mult mai devreme , în loc sa închida elemente cheie ale capacitatilor de producere a plutoniului si sa declare încetarea testelor de zbor a rachetelor .
cu toate ca acest scenariu nu poate fi exclus , principala & # 8220 ; dovada & # 8221 ; care îl sustine este faptul ca anumite capacitati nucleare ar putea , teoretic , ameninta statele unite .
fiecare din aceste cinci scenarii explica anumite aspecte ale comportamentului coreei de nord .
din nefericire , este greu de spus care este corect .
daca se intentioneaza ca armele nucleare sa fie folosite ca optiuni militare ofensive , atunci , cel mai probabil , oficialii nord-coreeni vor apela la masuri înselatoare pentru a-si ascunde intentiile .
daca ei au decis ca armele nucleare le sunt necesare pentru supravietuirea regimului , atunci crearea impresiei ca agresiunea statelor unite le-a împins catre un program nuclear le-ar putea îmbunatati imaginea internationala .
( coreea de nord a avut succes în convingerea unor guverne asiatice ca intransigenta americanilor este în mare masura cauza actualei crize . )
pe de alta parte , chiar daca coreea de nord ar fi pregatita sa negocieze renuntarea la capacitatile nucleare , ea tot ar avea motive ca sa apara sovaitoare si agresiva , chiar neprevizibila , pentru a obtine avantaje maxime în timpul negocierilor .
oficialii americani au încercat sa creeze politici de abordare care sa sublinieze dificultatea stabilirii intentiilor nord-coreene .
politica revizionista din 1998 si 1999 , condusa de fostul secretar al apararii , william perry , sugera o strategie pe doua cai pentru a testa intentiile coreei de nord .
perry a recomandat oferirea catre nord-coreeni a alegerii între alternativa unui angajament mai strâns si relatii mai bune cu statele unite , si alternativa continuarii ostilitatilor si a politicii de îngradire . & # 8220 ; prin încorporarea a doua cai , strategia creata în revizuire evita dependenta de conjuncturi referitoare la intentiile sau comportamentul nord-coreenilor , si nu cauta , nici nu depinde de succesul sau , o transformare a sistemului intern [ nord-coreean ] . & # 8221 ; dificultatea în aceasta abordare îl reprezinta faptul ca criteriul cheie dupa care se va judeca daca coreea de nord îsi va respecta angajamentele ( renuntarea la armele de distrugere în masa într-o maniera verificabila ) va cere nord-coreenilor sa renunte la atuurile lor în procesul de negociere , înca de la început .
cadrul de acorduri a încercat sa rezolve aceasta problema prin structurarea angajamentelor ca o serie de pasi reciproci , prin care sa se obtina , într-un final , transparenta în istoria nucleara a coreei de nord .
cu toate acestea , amânarile în contructia reactoarelor si eroziunea sprijinului politic al statelor unite pentru cadrul de acorduri înseamna ca importante aspecte ale acordului , cum ar fi îmbunatatirea relatiilor economice si politice dintre sua si coreea de nord , nu au fost pe deplin implementate .
politica promovata de catre william perry prevedea un proces similar , & # 8220 ; pas cu pas si reciproc & # 8221 ; , ca un mijloc de rezolvare a problemei , însa aceasta abordare nu a fost niciodata pusa total în practica .
statele unite trebuie sa abordeze criza curenta printr-o strategie care sa accepte incapacitatea de stabilire a intentiilor nord-coreene .
daca oricare din cele cinci scenarii de mai sus ar fi corect , strategia americana ar trebui sa testeze intentiile coreene , fara a compromite interesele securitatii statelor unite .
la acest moment al crizei , sua are practic patru optiuni : utilizarea fortei militare pentru a ataca infrastructura nucleara nord-coreeana , mobilizarea presiunilor internationale împotriva coreei de nord , asteptarea , si negocierea .
atacurile militare se pare ca vor fi excluse , datorita incapacitatii actuale a sua de a distruge orice arma nucleara sau stoc de plutoniu nord-coreean , a opozitiei ferme din partea aliatilor si a altor state din regiune , si datorita unor posibile represalii din partea coreei de nord , prin atacarea sudului .
politica curenta a statelor unite este de a orchestra presiuni internationale pentru a forta coreea de nord sa renunte la programul de înarmare nucleara .
aceasta abordare are putine sanse de succes , pentru ca unele state cheie , cum ar fi china si coreea de sud , nu doresc marginalizarea coreei de nord , deoarece ar duce fie la colaps economic , fie la raspunsuri militare .
a treia optiune pentru statele unite ar fi sa astepte , în speranta ca liderii de la phenian îsi vor modera cerintele , si vor accepta negocieri multilaterale , în termeni impusi de catre sua .
aceasta se pare ca este pozitia de facto a statelor unite , cel putin pe durata potentialului razboi din irak .
a patra optiune ar fi acceptarea cererilor coreei de nord pentru negocieri bilaterale cu sua , si încercarea de obtinere a unui acord care sa urmareasca interesele americane .
impasul curent nu va dura la nesfârsit .
daca nu se va ajunge la un acord , este probabil ca nord-coreeni vor reprocesa combustibilul achizitionat si vor cumpara pltunoi pentru înca patru sau sase arme nucleare .
odata reprocesarea completa ( ce va dura de la patru la sase luni ) , statele unite vor pierde optiunea unor atacuri militare asupra stocurilor de materiale coreene .
cu sucienta materie pentru obtinerea a cinci pâna la opt arme nucleare , coreea de nord va avea noi optiuni , printre care si testarea nucleara , pozitionari operationale de arme nucleare sau vânzarea de material fisionabil .
mai mult , este foarte putin probabil ca liderii nord-coreeni vor astepta pasiv ca presiunile internationale sau problemele economice interne sa duca la rasturnarea regimului lor .
în schimb , ei vor apela la actiuni de provocare pentru a agrava criza , în scopul cresterii presiunii asupra statelor unite de a negocia un acord .
politica curenta a administratiei bush are costuri semnificante .
pe lânga permisiunea acordata coreei de nord de a-si îmbunatati capacitatile nucleare , politica americana a creat tensiuni serioase în cadrul aliantelor cu coreea de sud si japonia , precum si în relatiile cu china si rusia .
refuzul negocierilor , venit din partea statelor unite , si nu a nord-coreenilor , este considerat a fi de vina pentru agravarea crizei .
daca statele unite continua în aceeasi maniera , este foarte probabil ca nord-coreeni îsi vor pozitiona armele nucleare & # 8220 ; la vedere & # 8221 ; , ceea ce va avea consecinte pentru stabilitatea regionala si pentru regimul de neproliferare nucleara .
intransigenta statelor unite va fi vinovata pentru aceasta , iar americanii vor fi pusi într-o situatie mult mai dificila .
din acest punct de vedere , este rezonabila cautarea negocierii unui acord .
indiferent de rezultatul final , negocierile vor avea imediat valoare politica .
în primul rând , statele unite ar trebui sa insiste asupra unei opriri verificabile a activitatilor nord-coreene în timpul negocierilor .
aceasta ar stopa încercarile coreei de nord de majorare a capacitatilor nucleare , si s-ar câstiga timp .
în schimb , sua îsi vor lua angajamentul de a nu ataca coreea de nord în timpul negocierilor , o concesie pe care administratia bush a oferit-o deja , fara a primi nimic în schimb .
în al doilea rând , negocierile ar detensiona într-o oarecare masura relatiile dintre sua si aliatii sai , deschizând calea catre o politica comuna vizând coreea de nord .
daca negocierile pentru un acord verificabil si acceptabil ar esua , statele unite ar câstiga mai usor sprijinul international pentru o abordare mai dura a problemei nord-coreene .
în al treilea rând , negocierile ar reduce capacitatea coreei de nord de a agrava criza , permitând statelor unite sa ia initiativa si sa-si concentreze atentia asupra armelor de distrugere în masa ale nord-coreenilor si asupra modalitatilor de obtinere a unui acord .
de asemenea , negocierile ar reduce posibilitatea unei provocari militare nord-coreene în mijlocul unui razboi în irak .
tinând cont de toate acestea , negocierile au un mare potential de atingere a obiectivului unei peninsule coreene libera de arme nucleare .
negocierea unui acord acceptabil nu va fi usoara .
faptul ca nord-coreenii au încalcat cadrul de acorduri si alte angajamente de neproliferare nucleara , înseamna ca statele unite si alte state participante la negocierea unui nou acord vor cere masuri stringente de verificare a respectarii termenilor de catre coreea de nord .
însa , în mod paradoxal , suspiciunile interne asupra intentiilor nord-coreene vor permite negociatorilor americani sa insiste pentru masuri drastice de verificare , ca o conditie necesara a unui acord , si aceasta mai ales daca va fi nevoie de sprijinul congresului pentru a finanta acest acord .
chiar daca negocierile vor esua , statele unite vor fi într-o pozitie favorabila datorita faptului ca au încercat sa trateze cu nord-coreenii .
next noua conducere de la beijing- o reală schimbare în politica chineză ?
visitors admire pelicans at the giza zoo .
the 122-year-old zoo is the biggest and oldest of egypt ’ s seven zoological parks .
a rhino noses past a stray cat in its enclosure at the giza zoo .
on a recent day , no one in the zoo ’ s administrative office could say for sure how many animals are kept on the premises .
don ’ t feel bad if you missed the first weekend of garrison ’ s dickens village festival .
turkey worst jailer of journalists for second year in a row bbc journalist reports in usa on “ forced sterilization ” in uzbekistan uzbek president ’ s daughter gives “ open and harsh ” interview to a turkish newspaper popular darakchi and sogdiana papers on verge of closure in uzbekistan nepotism rears head in tajikistan : president ’ s son appointed customs chief december 30 , 2013 napier , new zealand -- the forecast on the eve of the 2nd one day international between new zealand and the west indies was right as the match was abandoned at the time of what would have been the end of the first innings .
so bad was the rain at the start of the afternoon ...
edward lowassa afungua tamasha la madereva wa bodaboda jijini dar rejoicewith us as we continue our celebrations in honor of the canonization of st. kateri tekakwitha on october 21 , 2012 .
the diocese of duluth sent five representativesto rome for this festive occasion .
they were joined by 800 , 000 other pilgrims in rome for the canonization ofour seven new saints .
to bishop paul sirba , the bureau of catholic indian missions office , and the many contributions frommembers of the diocese of duluthand elsewhere we thank youfor this wonderful gift and assure you that you were present in our prayers as we made our pilgrimagein italy .
you were there as we received the special blessings fromthe holy father and at eachmass .
may st. kateri tekakwitha continue to walk with us as we strive to imitate her in reaching out to the young , our elders , and the sick and hold close to our hearts her devotions to jesus on the cross and to his mother .
reservations within the diocese of duluth : bois forte reservationfond du lac reservationgrand portage reservationleech lake reservationmille lacs reservation tackle avoidable blindness .
the challenge is to cross the length of the record being attempted by sir ranulph fiennes is a dangerous endeavour , but an the plan is to begin the expedition on the equinox of march 21st 2013 , temperatures .
dr mike stroud has been expeditions with sir ranulph before , and had this to say about the attempt .
" the challenge is whether it is possible to operate and be out there in the coldest place on earth at the coldest time of the year . ”
even for the boat journey to the pacific coast of antarctica sir on the icy continent this will not be enough .
new equipment is being invented fiennes was the first man to cross the entire continent of antarctica on foot , a record he set back in 1993 when he was 49 .
now sir ranulph is 68 , but his age old .
if you still are lucky enough to be able to walk around not stooped , no attention to exploring .
his list of records is far reaching and impressive , sleds fell through thin ice , and he had to pull them out using his hands .
all his fingers on his left hand were severely damaged by frostbite , and he had to abandon the attempt .
amputation of his fingertips was inevitable , but his back as possible .
sir ranulph couldn ’ t wait , and instead used a fretsaw to why he wanted to make this new record attempt , sir ranulph answered , " we do it ahead for sir ranulph and his team is a going to be an ultimate test of this was not the reason for the decision being made to attempt the winter rivalry is a good reason to head to the coldest place on earth at the coldest time of year is up for debate , but the challenge has now been set , and only time will tell if sir ranulph can accomplish the extraordinary feat he has set the number of hours reaching 16 a day in the summer months. is try to stay out of the way of god ’ s grace center resident and fitness advocate charmayne leinius has a passion for walking and for helping others .
kacper niburski the silhouette when i was eight , i was asked what i wanted to be when i grew up .
as a boy with a flawless mushroom cut , a wide-set grin , and teeth that could make a jigsaw puzzle look straight , i was insatiably interested in the world .
i wanted to learn and learn and [ ... ]
when i saw kim ’ s convenience at theatre aquarius on friday evening , i couldn ’ t help but think about my own family for the full two hours .
i am not korean , i don ’ t live in regent park , nor does my family own a convenience store .
but the whole time i felt that apa , janet , umma and jung [ ... ]
palika kohli the silhouette the following books serve as a guide to defining my version of the “ coming-of-age ” genre .
what they have in common is that , in one way or another , they have all resonated with me at some point in the past six months .
they are listed in as chronological an order as i [ ... ]
get involved „ the incomes of the physician should be three times higher than the average salary in the country “ interview with prof mircea cinteză ph. d | cadran politic prof. mircea cinteză , ph.d. , a prominent cardiologist with extensive experience , is a professor of cardiology and internal medicine with the cardiology and internal medicine department of the “ carol davila ” medical and pharmacy university in bucharest ; head of the cardiology ward of the bucharest university emergency hospital ; since 1996 he has been a member of the “ carol davila ” medical and pharmacy university board of professors ; between 1997 and 2007 he was the chairman of the romanian college of physicians ; in 2004-2008 he was the dean of the “ carol davila ” medical and pharmacy university ; in 2004-2005 he was the public health minister ; in 2004-2011 he was a member of the senate of romania .
« previous „ venitul unui medic ar trebui să fie de trei ori mai mare decât venitul mediu pe economie “ interviu cu prof. univ. dr mircea cinteză next valea timocului este o zonă în care românii au continuitate încă de la ocupaţia romană interviu cu domnul tiberius puiu © 2012 cadran politic · rss · designed by theme junkie · powered by wordpress steven strauss if ' stop and frisk ' is such an effective tactic , why not use an electronic version on potentially corrupt bank ceos ?
is support for the norquist pledge bad for your health ?
america : drifting towards the end of the republic , with an entertained citizenry the economic and political collapse of 2020 : an avoidable future can the arab spring bring peace to the middle east ?
the hall is live , like a splintered wire .
nearly everyone in the audience is screaming at the ring .
a woman , who looks to be in her 60s , jumps from her seat to chase a " bad guy " leaning on a crutch .
he hobbles away from her and escapes behind a curtain .
hammer agrees there is entertainment value in the storylines .
but he 's also quick to point out the hard realities of the sport .
" are the scars in my shoulder real ? " he asks .
" are the 18 teeth knocked out of my mouth real ?
are the over $ 2,000 in medical bills real ? "
" i play the part of the jerk owner of the company , " witmer says .
" people love to hate the owner .
people love to see the owner get beat up a little bit when he tries to cheat the fan favorite out of a win .
if i get beat up by one of the wrestlers on a show , i am usually very sore . "
" i wouldn 't say it 's a great living , but you can get by , " says hammer .
bill price ( a.k.a.
james dempsey ) , of lancaster , wrestles exclusively for lcw and valour and says he does it for the excitement and fun .
" the majority want to make a career out of it and become as big a star as they can , " says wise .
witmer agrees .
" i certainly believe that the goal of all wrestlers is to make it to the big time , " he says .
" however , the odds of becoming a wwe superstar are stacked against most guys . "
still , some do make it to the big time .
lcw wrestlers ed house and bill bain , for example , work for the wwe and tna in some situations when the organization travels through the region .
online abonelike-gazetehoşgeldi̇n 201401 ocak 2014 çarşambaanasayfaekonomifinansdış haberlerpolitikatoplumsektörlerkategori̇lerfinansne , nerede , ne zamangündembi̇k i̇lanlarıdünya ihtdış i̇lişkileremtiai̇şletme-yönetimmevzuatnews in englishgüncelyorum i̇ncelemebölgelerdenözel dosyalarresmi gazetetiger monitorbankacılık sektörübilişimdemir-çelik sektörüenerji sektörügıda sektörühaberleşme sektörühizmetleri̇nşaat sektörükimya-petrokimya sektörümadencilik sektörümağazacılık-perakendecilik sektörümedya sektörüotomotiv sektörüplastik-kauçuk sektörüsanayisavunma sanayiisigortacılık sektörütarım ve hayvancılıktaşımacılık sektörütekstil sektörüturizm sektörü17 : 48 - putinden , gül ve erdoğana yeni yıl mesajı17 : 32 - yılın yazar , fikir insanı ve sanatçıları açıklandı17 : 29 - filistinin prag büyükelçisi hayatını kaybetti17 : 24 - bulgaristanda asgari ücret 340 leva oldu17 : 22 - türkiye , avrupa ’ nın 11. zengini ! 17 : 16 - kuzu paralel devlet twitlerine açıklama getirdi17 : 15 - ötv artışı sektörü kötü etkileyecek16 : 38 - sayıştay tcdd raporu : gerekirse soruşturulsun16 : 03 - resmi burslu öğrencilere yeni yıl sürprizi15 : 54 - fakıbabadan türgeve 3 milyon liralık arsaözel dosyalar2014 tüketicinin yılı olacakdijital dünyanın neferi olan tüketici 2014 yılında krallığını ilan edecek2014'te teknoloji modası ne olacak ? teknoloji ile içiçe yaşamaya alıştık .
kolaylıklarını işimizde , özel yaşamımızda görüyoruz .
bazen de teknolojinin esiri haline geliyoruz.pazarlamanın 2013'ü dolu geçtipazarlama iletişimine 2013 yılında damgasını vuran trendler ve şirketler geleceği de şekillendireceknobel 'li ekonomistten avrupa 'yı kurtarma önerisimüşterinizin başağrısını iyileştirmek için varsınız2014 yılına neden yeni bir soruyla başlamayasınız : müşterilerimin en büyük başağrısı nelerden kaynaklanıyor ? pazarlamanın alfabesi yeni medya ile yazılıyorformları ve sayıları çoğan medya kanallarını dengeli kullanmak geleceğin markalarını yaratmada başrol oynayacakyeni yılda dövizden sakınındaha uzağı görmek için , daha derine inin ! bazen başarısızlıklar ve şanssızlıklar bizi belli bir yöne iter .
bir kapı kapanır diğeri açılır .
her girdiğimiz kapının ardında yeteneklerimizi en iyi şekilde kullanacağımız fırsatlar karşımıza çıkar.balo ile gelen ‘ demiryolu devrimi ’ ! .. geleceğe sadece müşterilerinin ' hayatını iyileştirenler ' kalacakpazarlama gurusu peter fisk geleceğe uzanmak isteyen şirketlere ' müşterinizin hayatını iyileştirmeye odaklanın ' çağrısı yapıyor.avrupalı markaları satın almak çok önemliroubini uyardı : konut balonuna dikkat14 adımda garantili mutsuzluk rehberii̇çerik ' kral ' müşteri ' kanka ' olursahedef kitlesini dost , sürekli iletişimi ise kaçınılmaz gören yaklaşımlar bunun karşılığını fazlasıyla alıyoryetki mi sorumluluktan , sorumluluk mu yetkiden ? i̇nsanların karakterleri nasıl birbirinden farklıysa , iş yapış biçimleri de çeşit çeşittir .
kimisi iş tanımı dâhilinde hareket etmek ister , daha fazlasını yapmaz , kimisi işine değer katar , yaptığı işi farklı bir seviyeye taşır.12345678sonraki sayfa dünya onlinedünya grubu hakkındaonline künyedünya gazetesi künyesiabonelikalışverişrssreklami̇letişimdiğer sitelerimizkobiden.comdunyastore.compcworld.com.trcomputerworld.com.trbyte.com.trdunyagida.com.trdunyainsaat.com.trdünya ekonomi tvlive weather conditions , new mexico weather | kob.com stateline – other states may try to adopt arkansas-style medicaid expansion arkansas has passed its own version of medicaid expansion and ohio may pass a similar plan championed by the governor .
a look at how many stand to benefit. of privacy and our company will act accordingly .
see faqs irin | asia | bangladesh продинфо - новости : беларусь станет основным поставщиком картофеля на рынок татарстана - продовольственный рынок беларуси беларусь станет основным поставщиком картофеля на рынок татарстана12 августа 2010татарстан рассматривает беларусь в качестве основного поставщика картофеля на свой рынок .
об этом сообщил сегодня журналистам в минске президент татарстана рустам минниханов , передает белта .
на первом этапе в татарстан из беларуси планируется поставить 40 тыс.т картофеля .
в президент татарстана особо подчеркнул , что страна заинтересована в закупке и белорусского зерна . & # 34 ; ситуация с аномальной жарой отрицательно сказалась на сельском хозяйстве татарстана , особенно на тех регионах , где развито растениеводство & # 34 ; , - рассказал он .
в связи с этим татарстан рассматривает возможность закупки в беларуси от 100 тыс.т до 500 тыс.т зерна в разной форме - фураж , комбикорма и т.д. & # 34 ; потребности в фуражном зерне у нас большие , и мы рассчитываем в этом плане на беларусь & # 34 ; , - сказал в свою очередь премьер-министр беларуси сергей сидорский заверил в том , что беларусь полностью обеспечит тот заказ , который сформирует татарстан .
это прежде всего поставки картофеля .
беларусь также выполнит договоренности по поставкам на оптовые склады татарстана автомобильной техники . & # 34 ; помимо этого мы сегодня обсудили вопросы критических товарных групп - коснулись вопросов поставок сахара , сельскохозяйственных ярмарок в татарстане .
президент этой страны уже взял на себя обязательства по содействию в проведении таких мероприятий .
по словам сергея сидорского , на осенних ярмарках беларусь будет торговать основными видами сельхозпродукции , в том числе капустой , свеклой , картофелем .
планируется также , что в татарстане будут представлены и товары легкой промышленности беларуси . & # 34 ; у них высокое качество и the two snowmobiles quickly turn to small specks on the white snowfield .
mountaineer brian mccullough is in the lead , a thick rope secures his machine to one driven by scientist stephen hasiotis .
the two men are also harnessed and roped together .
they ’ re making the first snowmobile traverse on this route to a feature called wahl glacier .
a trail from a large field camp in the central transantarctic mountains had led them more than halfway , threading through a crevasse field , and up and down rises in the valley .
now they ’ re in virgin territory , and mccullough expertly steers to a large rock outcrop the team has dubbed " the castle ” near wahl glacier .
hasiotis , a paleontologist from the university of kansas , hopes to add to an already impressive trove of finds based on previous reports of fossils in the area .
first , there ’ s the headgear — a worn , leather cowboy hat that stays as firmly on his pony-tailed head as indiana jones ’ fedora .
there ’ s also a bit of cowboy swagger in the first-generation greek-american , as well as an infectious enthusiasm for his work .
he ’ s quite eager to jump down onto his belly , arms and legs swinging , to illustrate how a burrowing critter that lived in a warmer antarctica long ago might have scurried and clawed through its underground home .
peter flaig is the team ’ s expert on those sediments .
his job is to put the trace fossils into context .
for example , if hasiotis spies what be believes are the swimming trails of a fish — where it might have settled on the sediment , leaving an imprint — flaig must determine if the sediment deposits indeed belong to a lake .
on " the castle ” outcrop , hasiotis is shouting for flaig , and a few expletives pepper his exclamations as he scrambles underneath an overhang on the castle-like outcrop near wahl glacier , which looks nearly sheer from this vantage point , a few bare rocks jutting out from the ice .
the blackened rock he displayed previously back at camp can only be one thing — fossilized charred wood .
the most well-accepted story of the period suggests that the climate shifted from wet and warm to dry and warmer at the boundary .
but those interpretations are inherently biased , based on the evidence at hand .
sedimentologists like flaig assume the triassic dried out based on the sand that filled the basin .
but so much of the evidence is covered by ice in today ’ s antarctica .
" trace fossils are like fingerprints .
they don ’ t tell you genus or species , but it can tell you horseshoe crab , ” he says .
" we ’ ve hit the jackpot on this trip between the tracks of animals we don ’ t even know about , the horseshoe crabs , and the small burrowing therapsids or reptiles . ”
nong khai map , udon thani map , sakhon nakhon map , nakon phanom map , cambodian border map toppers is adding at least seven minnesota pizzerias mon dec 30 , 2013 3 : 16 pm est tom powers : dysfunctional vikings deserve vote of no confidence mon dec 30 , 2013 7 : 16 pm est vikings ’ christian ponder : ’ it stinks knowing ’ qbs contributed to leslie frazier ’ s firing mon dec 30 , 2013 7 : 16 pm est frostbitten umd student to be told about extent of injuries mon dec 30 , 2013 7 : 16 pm est vikings gm spielman on qbs : i havent got it right yet mon dec 30 , 2013 7 : 16 pm est bemidji man killed in snowmobile crash mon dec 30 , 2013 5 : 16 pm est report : nsa intercepts computer deliveries mon dec 30 , 2013 01 : 16 am est stupidcold : what a difference a day makes sun dec 29 , 2013 11 : 16 pm est security successful in preventing looting at metrodome sun dec 29 , 2013 11 : 16 pm est and in 2013 , the drowning death of a man at a tough mudder in west virginia marked the fourth death related to the event .
according to our sources , tullow oil is to appoint a managing director of its affiliate ( ... )
guinea ’ s government has retained the services of sheila khama , who heads the extractive ( ... )
azerbaijan hopes for a peaceful rearrangement of sectors of the caspian shelf turkmen tv dropped the logo of the golden profile of the late president turkmenistan : gurbankuly berdymuhammedov is not going to sell gas to russia alone neutralny turkmenistan : forecasts on major gas reserves in the republic are confirmed president gurbankuly berdymuhammedov was elected the head of the people 's council election of the president stirred the usually placid turkmen society the carnegie moscow center organized a roundtable conference on turkmenistan , the problems it is facing and the future it is heading for the turkmen establishment compiled the list of candidates for president .
the kremlin won the first round of the battle for turkmenistan turkmenistan : the opposition has no objections to a provisional government the population is paying for what is supposed to be free the turkmenbashi confesses that the state of health does not permit him to keep fasts 12 / 29 / 2013 vaticanpope talks about the holy family as refugees , prays for the synodduring the angelus , francis pope compares the flight into egypt to the " tragic fate of refugees " and of those hidden " exiles " , like the elderly .
" god is where man suffers . "
for him , ' excuse me , thank you , sorry " are the three key expressions on which to build peace within families .
he recites a prayer about jesus , mary and joseph in preparation for the consistory and the synod on the family , and greets via link-up the faithful in nazareth , loreto and barcelona.12 / 26 / 2013 vaticanpope : the feast of st stephen the first martyr dissolves the " fairy tale " image of christmasin today 's angelus , pope francis calls for a moment of silence and prayer for persecuted christians .
" there are more today than in the early days of the church . "
it is necessary to witness and report violations of religious freedom and discrimination .
for the pontiff , it is also necessary to contemplate the crèche as an " atmosphere of understanding and brotherhood " that is " so beneficial to the common good " may grow " in families and communities " .12 / 23 / 2013 vaticanpope : jesus does not come only with mary in bethlehem , but comes every day in the church and in usin his homily at the domus sanctae marthae , pope francis spoke of three comings of jesus - in bethlehem , at the end of time and in our lives - calling upon us to imitate the expectant mary and follow her in the injunction " come ! "
he also highlighted the dangers of not living as pilgrims , but as people " holed up in an inn " behind a " do not disturb " sign.12 / 23 / 2013 indiadelhi , new anti-corruption party will lead the governmentarvind kejriwal , leader of the aam aadmi party ( aap ) , will be the new chief minister , the party said .
it will form the government taking outside support from the congress .
the main opposition bharatiya janata party ( bjp , hindu nationalist ) termed the alliance among its opponents " a betrayal to delhi " .
get involvedgoloading ... > > view all results for " " enter multiple symbols separated by commaslondon quotes now availablego merck issued a voluntary recall of lot of its gardasil vaccines friday due to the risk that some of the viles may contain glass particles .
the only way to get more obamacare signups is to cut minimum requirements , athenahealth ceo jonathan bush tells cnbc .
half of the raw chicken breasts in a nationwide sampling carried a " superbug " bacteria , calling for stricter limits on use of medicines on livestock .
newseconomyfinancehealth carereal estateretailwealthautosearningsenergymediapoliticscommentaryspecial reportsasiaeuropemarketspre-marketsu.s.asiaeuropestockscommoditiescurrenciesbondsfundsetfsinvestingfinancial advisorspersonal financecnbc explainsportfoliowatchliststock screenerfund screenertechmobilesocial mediaenterprisegamingcybersecuritysmall businessfranchisingfinancingmanagementvideolatest videodigital workshopu.s. videoasia videoeurope videoceo interviewsanalyst interviewsfull episodesclosed captioningshowswatch livecnbc u.s.cnbc asia-pacificcnbc europecnbc worldfull episodescnbcabout cnbcsite mapvideo reprintsadvertisecareershelpcontactprivacy policyterms of serviceindependent programming reportlatest news releasesrsscertain market data provided by thomson reutersdata also provided bydata is a real-time snapshot * data is delayed at least 15 minutesglobal business and financial news , stock quotes , and market data and analysis © 2014 cnbc llc . all rights reserved.a division of nbcuniversalthe impressive times - english weekly and daily , published from faridabad , haryana , delhi & ncr english newspaper , editor monoj kumar mandal世界新聞網-english news las vegas style in macau bolsters melco as shares rally how to depose an unpopular leader -- and how unpopular was he ?
more than one million children and youths up to age 15 in cambodia have been vaccinated against measles and rubella in a first-time campaign that aims to immunize another three million by the end of december .
thanks to intensive demining in cambodia ’ s battambang province , few residents in rokha kiri district have seen landmines in the past two decades , even though the country still ranks as one of the most heavily mined in the world .
eccb takeover of anguilla banks could end up in court how to locate the correct garcinia cambogia draw out on the web : catfish and the bottlemen - rango ( written by van mccann ) : http : / / gcn.eu / 1gvfrb5 capella - we met at a party ( written by dara quilty and ciaran smyth ) : http : / / gcn.eu / icv5p2 confere ̀ ncia " brasil y europa : oportunidades y retos de una agenda común para relanzar la asociación estratégica " , dra .
anna ayuso ( investigadora principal cidob ) thanks to a team of merry westjetters and the power of technology , we 've learned that miracles really do happen .
see how we did it , and learn how you could win airfare for two by sharing this video on twitter : http : / / fly.ws / makingxmasmiracle suntem o societate care punem la dispozitia clientului o gama larga de produse si servicii : instalatii termice , instalatii sanitare , instalatii de apa , instalatii electrice ( colaborare ) , instalatii gaze naturale ( colaborare ) , instalatii stingere incendiu si hidranti , instalatii canalizare si pluviale.etc this is my simple video on how to use bit.ly url shortener युआरएल फाऊंडेशनगौरव पुरस ् कार : कबड ् डी - श ् री . प ् रभाकर ऊर ् फ दादा अमृते , खो-खो - श ् री . यशवंत ( बाळ ) नाईक , मल ् लखांब - श ् री . बापू समलेवाले , कुस ् ती - हिंदकेशरी श ् री . मारुती माने , कॅरम - श ् री . जनार ् दन व ् यंकय ् या संगम युआरएल फाऊंडेशन सामाजिक गौरव पुरस ् कार : डॉ . रवी बापट , डॉ . तात ् याराव लहाने , युआरएल फाऊंडेशन राजहंस पत ् रकार जीवनगौरव पुरस ् कार : श ् री . विनायक दळवी युआरएल फाऊंडेशनगौरव पुरस ् कार : कबड ् डी- श ् री . मनोहर शावजी इंदुलकर , खो-खो- श ् री . भास ् कर जयराम सावंत , मल ् लखांब- सौ . नीता संजीव ताटके , कुस ् ती- पै . राहुल बाळासाहेब आवारे , कॅरम- श ् री . जनार ् दन व ् यंकय ् या संगम युआरएल फाऊंडेशन सामाजिक गौरव पुरस ् कार : डॉ . हिम ् मतराव बावस ् कर , माता बालक उत ् कर ् ष प ् रतिष ् ठान , सांगोला , जिल ् हा - सोलापूर jolla hands-on : a day with the new sailfish flagship ( video ) प ् रमुख अतिथी : मा . खासदार डॉ . भालचंद ् र मुणगेकर ( सदस ् य - राज ् यसभा ) विशेष अतिथी : मा.श ् री . एकनाथराव गायकवाड ( खासदार ) , मा.प ् रा . वर ् षाताई गायकवाड ( राज ् यमंत ् री , उच ् च व तंत ् र , वैद ् यकीय शिपण व पर ् यटन महाराष ् ट ् र राज ् य ) विशेष आमंत ् रित : महाराष ् ट ् र भूषण कविवर ् य श ् री . मंगेश पाडगावकर , मा . पद ् मश ् री मधू मंगेश कर ् णिक , मा . पद ् मश ् री डॉ . तात ् याराव लहाने ( नेत ् रतज ् ज ् ञ ) युआरएल फाऊंडेशन सामाजिक गौरव पुरस ् कार : पद ् मभूषण श ् री . अण ् णा हजारे , डॉ . अभय ह ् न डॉ . राणी बंग , श ् रीमती नसिमा हुरजूक , खासदार , श ् री . राजू शेट ् टी युआरएल फाऊंडेशन क ् रीडा पुरस ् कार : कबड ् डी - श ् री . सुरेंद ् र वाजपेई , खो-खो - श ् री . तुकाराम भोईर , मल ् लखांब - सौ . शशी दीपक सुर ् वे , कॅरम - श ् री . सुभाष थोरवे how do i select a url for tumblr ? : social media tips for small businesses his 1982 album ça donne envie d ’ aimer and the sing " amoureux fous " was done in a duo with julie pietri , perpetuating his image as a crooner .
when i was ninei wanted a real gunthey gave me an air gunwhen i was 25i wanted youyou gave me a stonewho are they â   and who are you ? oh , when i was ninei wanted a real gunthey gave me an air gunthen i wanted the real you took a look down a westbound roadright away i made my choiceheaded out to my big two-wheeleri was tired of my own voicetook a bead on the northern plainsand just rolled that power ontwelve hours out of mackinaw citystopped in a bar to have a brewmet a girl and we had a few drinksand i told her what i 'd decided to doshe looked out the window a long long momentthen she looked into my eyesshe didn 't have to say a thing , i knew what she was thinkin 'roll , roll me awaywon 't you roll me away tonight ? i too am lost , i feel double-crossedand i 'm sick of what 'swrong and what 's rightwe never even said a wordwe just walked out and got on that bikeand we rolledand we rolled clean out of sightwe rolled across the high plainsdeep into the mountainsfelt so good to mefinally feelin ' freesomewhere along a high roadthe air began to turn coldshe said she missed her homei headed on alonestood alone on a mountain topstarin ' out at the great dividei could go east , i could go westit was all up to me to decidejust then i saw a young hawk flyin 'and my soul began to riseand pretty soonmy heart was singin 'roll , roll me away , i 'm gonna roll me away tonightgotta keep rollin , gotta keep ridin 'keep searchin ' till i find what 's rightand as the sunset fadedi spoke to the faintest first starlightand i said next timenext time ( will jennings / martee lebow ) everyday when i look in the mirrori try to see where my soul 's at nowhappy day - is it further or nearer ? on the way , will i find it somehow ? yesterday 's gonelove lead me on , ohi won 't ask whyroll away - it 's only time and the riverroll away - to the endless searoll away - it could all change tomorrowthis is life in it 's gloryand the river runs freeroll awaymy dreams build the walls of the citybroken hearts tear them all downit ain 't always easy and prettyit 's just the world turning aroundgive us this daygive us this night , ohit 'll be all rightroll away - it 's only time and the riverroll away - to the endless searoll away - it could all change tomorrowthis is life in it 's gloryand the river runs freeoh , roll awayeveryday when i look in the mirrori try to see where my soul 's at nowroll away - it 's only time and the riverroll away - to the endless searoll away - it could all change tomorrowthis is life in it 's gloryand the river runs freeroll away - it 's only time and the riverroll away - to the endless searoll away - it could all change tomorrowthis is life in it 's gloryand the river runs freeroll away , ahh , oh the redchins in their millionswill overspill their bordersand chaos then will reign in our raelthe country of my fathersa proud land overloadedlike a goldfish being swallowed by a whalerael the home of my religionto me , the center of the earththe redchins in their millionswill overspill their bordersand chaos then will reign in our raelmy heritage is threatenedmy roots are torn and corneredand so to do my best i 'll homeward sailand so to do my best i 'll homeward sailnow captain , listen to my instructionsreturn to this spot on christmas daylook toward the shore for my signaland then you 'll know if in rael i 'll stayif a yellow flag is flutteringsimply held against the mornthen you 'll know my courage is endedand you 'll send your boat ashorebut if a red flag is flyingbrazen , bold against the bluethen you 'll know that i am stayingand my yacht belongs to younow captain listen to my instructionsreturn to this spot on christmas daylook toward the shore for my signaland then you 'll know if in rael i 'll stayhe 's crazy if he thinks we 're coming back againhe 's crazy if he thinks we 're coming back againhe 's crazy if he thinks we 're coming back againhe 's crazy anywayif a yellow flag is flutteringsickly held against the mornthen you 'll know my courage is ended roll my way ( music & lyrics : jill johnson / liz rose / lisa carver / pam rose ) i 've always been stubborn heartedbaby i was just wired too tightcrossed the line before i get startednot enough hours in the day or nighti 've been running us too hard latelyyou 've been diggin ' your heals in deepi think it 's time that i slow down maybethink it 's time i let you leadi 'm trying something newgonna step back a little and see howthings might playall i gotta do is stop pushing the riverand let you , let you , let you roll my wayi think i 'm liking how this is workingi should 've done it long time agofinally giving in what 's it hurtingi 'm loving going with the flowi 'm trying something newi just just tep back a little and see howthings might playall i gotta do is stop pushing the riverand let you , let you , let you roll my waycome on , come on , come on let 's see what you gotdo you , do you , do you have it in you or noti 'm trying something new gonna step backa little and see how things might playall i gotta do is stop pushing the riverand let you , let you , let you let you trysomething new , when i step back a littleand see how things might playall i gotta do is stop pushing the river andlet you let you let you roll my wayroll my wayroll my wayyeah roll my roll my roll my wayroll my roll my roll my wayroll my roll my roll my wayroll my roll my roll my way oh , well , look-a here what a good day we got todaywhy don 't we get in the car , baby , and find some game to playjust let the top down now and get in and let us roll awayhey diddle , diddle , the dude told a riddleand the chick jumped over the seatso he kept her laughing , just to see such sportbecause the dude thought the jump was neatoh , well , look-a here what a good day we got todaywhy don 't we jump in the car , baby , and go find some place to playcome on let the top down , get in and let 's roll awaya little country boy came to blow his hornthe dude was in the meadow and the chick was in the cornwhere was the dude that was driving the carunderneath the corn stalk playing guitaroh , well , look-a there what a good day they got todayhey , djumping in the car and going to find some place to playand let the top down , baby , get in and let 's roll awaythe little boy peeped and saw a big heapbut he couldn 't tell hide nor hairso he left the crack and they finally came backbut they forgot and left the guitar thereoh , well , well , well , what a good day we got todaywhy don 't we get back in the car , baby , and talk about the games we play packed my bags with the things i needa set of wheels and a steady speedas i roll awayi ’ m gonna roll awaycos time means nothing to a man like methe dark has gone now a blind man seesi can roll awayi can roll awayroll away , i aint never coming backleave my worries by the old trackroll away , i can ’ t stay here no moreroll away , move along that lineone way ticket , gonna do just fineroll away , coz this train don ’ t stop anymorethere ’ s a storm that ’ s a ’ breaking above our headsneed to wake up now , get out of our bedsand roll awayand roll awayso come on honey , wont you take my handwe ’ ll head on out into the promised landmake our getawaymake our getawayroll away , move along that lineone way ticket , gonna do just fineroll away , coz this train don ’ t stop anymoreroll away , i aint never coming backleave my worries by the old trackroll away , coz i can ’ t stay here no moreno moreno , i can ’ t stay here no moreroll away , move along that lineone way ticket , gonna do just fineroll away , coz this train don ’ t stop anymoreroll away , i aint never coming backleave my worries by the old trackroll away , i can ’ t stay here no moreno more the custodian of the two holy mosques king abdullah bin abdulaziz al saud and leaders and heads of delegations of gulf cooperation council ( gcc ) concluded the meetings of 32nd session of the gcc supreme council at dir 'iya palace in riyadh this week .
the gcc leaders welcomed and blessed the proposal of the custodian of the two holy mosques king abdullah bin abdulaziz al saud of the kingdom of saudi arabia and the current chairman of the supreme council in his opening speech to the 32nd session of the supreme council held in riyadh on 24 muharram 1433 ah corresponding to december 19 , 2011 on the transition from the stage of cooperation to the stage of the union .
the commission shall submit its final recommendations to the 14th consultative meeting of the gcc leaders .
praise be to god , prayer and peace be upon the seal of the prophets and messengers , our prophet muhammad , and his family and companions , 1 - adoption of the initiative of the custodian of the two holy mosques to move beyond the stage of cooperation to the stage of union so that the gcc countries form a single entity to achieve good and repel evil in response to the aspirations of the citizens of gcc countries and the challenges they face .
then , king hamad bin isa al khalifa of the kingdom of bahrain , delivered a speech in which he expressed thanks to and appreciation of the custodian of the two holy mosques king abdullah bin abdulaziz al saud of the kingdom of saudi arabia and the saudi people on the generous hospitality and warm welcome extended to the gcc leaders at all levels .
he also expressed thanks to the custodian of the two holy mosques for his prudent chairmanship of riyadh gcc summit 2011 which led to very positive results of the summit , particularly towards cooperation and unity .
concluding his speech , the king of bahrain extended invitation to the gcc leaders to attend the gcc summit 2012 in his country .
in his capacity as president of the 32nd session of gcc member states supreme council , the custodian of the two holy mosques king abdullah bin abdulaziz al saud , declared the conclusion of the current session and its works , expressing thanks to all gcc leaders , and wishing them all luck in the next session which will be hosted by the kingdom of bahrain .
the communiquéأ © said that at the kind invitation of the custodian of the two holy mosques king abdullah bin abdulaziz al saud , king of the kingdom of saudi arabia , the gcc supreme council held its 32nd session in riyadh city on monday and tuesday on dec .
19 and 20 , 2011 under the chairmanship of the custodian of the two holy mosques , the current chairman of the supreme council .
the session was also held in the presence of gcc leaders sheikh mohammed bin rashid al maktoum , uae vice president , who is also the premier and the ruler of dubai ; king hamad bin isa al khalifa of the kingdom of bahrain ; sultan qaboos bin saeed of sultanate of oman ; sheikh hamad bin khalifa al thani , emir of the state of qatar ; and sheikh sabah al-ahmad al-jaber al-sabah , emir of the state of kuwait , the communiquéأ © pointed out .
in their final communiquéأ © , the gcc leaders congratulated the custodian of the two holy mosques king abdullah bin abdulaziz al saud , on assuming the presidency of the current session of the supreme council , praising his speech 's contents and his keenness to activate the march of cooperation among the gcc countries in all fields .
they also extended their sincere condolences to the custodian of the two holy mosques and the saudi people on the death of the late prince sultan bin abdulaziz al saud .
the gcc leaders also extended their congratulations to prince naif bin abdulaziz al saud for the trust bestowed on him by the custodian of the two holy mosques selecting him as crown prince and appointing him deputy premier and minister of interior of the kingdom of saudi arabia .
the council approved the personal identification as a proof of identity for gcc nationals in the public and private sectors in all member states .
1 .
the alternative energy and the development of its sources .
in its final communiquéأ © , the gcc supreme council pointed out to its brief on reports on the international relations of the gcc with its counterpart groupings and it welcomed the starting of the strategic dialogue with a number of friendly countries and signing the following memoranda of understanding : the gcc supreme council also was briefed on a report on the functioning of the gcc 's program for the reconstruction of gaza , and directed to rapidly implement the agreed upon projects and programs to serve the palestinian people in the israeli-blockaded gaza .
the supreme council affirmed its support for the position of the state of kuwait on the establishment of the port of mubarak the great as being constructed on the territory of kuwait , within its territorial waters and on borders drawn in accordance with the un resolutions .
finally , the communiquéأ © expressed the supreme council 's utmost appreciation of the custodian of the two holy mosques king abdullah bin abdulaziz al saud , the king of the kingdom of saudi arabia , the chairman of the current session of the supreme council , the saudi government and the people of saudi for the welcoming hospitality accorded to the guests of the summit , and the sincerely expressed fraternal feelings accorded to his brothers , their majesties and highnesses the leaders of gcc member states .
their majesties and highnesses the leaders of gcc members states , welcomed the generous invitation by his majesty king hamad bin eisa al-khalifa , king of the kingdom of bahrain , to host their 33rd session of the supreme council of the gcc member states in the kingdom of bahrain , in 2012 .
ain-al-yaqeen | about us | archive ain al yaqeen photos : joanna krupa wearing a bikini in miami beach an otford resident who is set to follow highways chiefs ' orders and grit his road during the next snow storm has been forced to buy his own ...
ide hill advanced to the semi-final of the sevenoaks charity cup by beating farnborough old boys guild 3-1.it was no surprise that after ...
the us is still reviewing the application for the transfer of senior indian diplomat devyani khobragade to un and issue the necessary documents for full diplomatic immunity , a top official said in washington , giving no timeline for its decision .
" it is under review .
in the garb of new year wishes , us ambassador to india nancy powell has expressed regrets for " the circumstances " of indian diplomat devyani khobragade 's arrest as the bilateral relations between the two countries have plummeted to a new low .
" i join us ...
devyani khobragade row puts the issue of salaries paid to employees in the us embassy and consulates in india on front burner .
summarywith devyani khobragade row being ratcheted up by india , us embassy takes wages battle to the next step .
why the us will have to eat crow over devyani khobragade row firstpost- & lrm ; 9 hours ago & lrm ; the hunt for white gold mon dec 30 , 2013 3 : 40 pm est brazilians celebrate goddess of the sea mon dec 30 , 2013 3 : 40 pm est gma ’ s robin roberts comes out mon dec 30 , 2013 6 : 00 pm est your lavish new year ’ s eve parties mon dec 30 , 2013 11 : 50 am est world ’ s most spectacular xmas lights mon dec 30 , 2013 11 : 50 am est man accidentally killed by truck on tarmac at boston airport mon dec 30 , 2013 9 : 50 pm est clothing brands sidestep blame for safety lapses mon dec 30 , 2013 11 : 20 pm est schumacher family in bedside vigil mon dec 30 , 2013 9 : 00 pm est selfie shows teen ’ s final moments mon dec 30 , 2013 7 : 10 pm est al qaeda wants to know what its fighters spend on macaroni mon dec 30 , 2013 7 : 00 pm est population gains at near-historic lows mon dec 30 , 2013 9 : 30 pm est intel community insists on al qaeda ties in benghazi mon dec 30 , 2013 10 : 50 pm est are you a ghanaian living in italy ?
do you have a story to tell ?
pls send us your stories and we will review it for publishing .
write to us at adu akosua / facebook or ghanamuntienewsitaly @ yahoo.it all rights riserved news : the town of capriolo in cojunction with the accoglienza immigrati in brescia hold immigration conference with guest speaker akosua adu ps : sorry about the " directed by " at the end , was wrongly edited : ) hey guys , this is the easy and simple way of making a playlist .
hope you can understand and if you have any questions , make sure you ask me in the comments below .
how to put a video on your channel page 2013 this is how to create a playlist in itunes and transfer the playlist to the i-device how to create playlist on youtube and add content to it complete in the new youtube interface .
if you have any questions or suggestions just let me know timelapses taken using a canon 5d mark ii and a pclix ( pclix.com ) according to him , the mahama-led administration has no clue about how to resuscitate ghana  s ailing economy .
but president mahama has prophetically declared 2014 as the year of " many good things to happen " in ghana and admonished all ghanaians to " claim it . " .... ( size : 1.5kb ) the pathway is brokenand the signs are unclearand i don 't know the reason why you brought me herebut just because you love me the way that you doi 'm gonna walk through the valleyif you want me tochorus : causei 'm not who i waswhen i took my first stepand i 'm clinging to the promise you 're not through with me yetso if all of these trials bring me closer to youthen i will go through the fireif you want me toit may not be the way i would have chosenwhen you lead me through a world that 's not my homebut you never said it would be easyyou only said i 'd never go aloneso when the whole world turns against meand i 'm all by myselfand i can 't hear you answer my cries for helpi 'll remember the suffering your love put you throughand i will go through the valleyif you want me to-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- face lost in a crowdfeet wondering empty streetsvoice crying out loudheart aching with every beatsomeone searchingsearching for someoneeverywhere and endlesslywishing waitingcould there be someone searching forsomeone searchingsoul battered and bruisedcry wounded left for deathears deaf to good newseyes tear drenched in sleepless redsomeone searchingsearching for someoneeverywhere endlesslywishing waitingcould there be someone searching forsomeone searchingoh i hear their criesand i know the paincan it be deniedthat everyone has been and will besomeone searchinglove standing alonehands scared by the nails of hatehope suffering gonefaith urging that its not to latesomeone searchingsearching for someoneeverywhere and endlesslyloving longingalways theres someone searching forsomeone searchingsearching for someoneeverywhere and endlesslyloving longingalways theres someone searching forsomeone searching i could travel over oceanscross the deserts , climb the mountainsjust to share your storybring you glory and win souls for youand i could sing like an angelsongs so humble and so thankfulfull of drama and emotionso the world would know your truthi could give away my moneyand my clothes and my foodto restore those people who are poorand lost and down and outoh , i could succeed at all these thingsfind favor with peasants and kingsbut if i do not love , i am nothingi could live a flawless lifenever cheat or steal or lieand always speak so kindlysmile so warmly and go about doing goodi could dedicate myself to dowhat everyone else wants me tolisten to them , compliment themsay the things i shouldi could show up every sundaylead the choir and bible studyand they all might come to know meas a leader and a friendoh , i could achieve success on earthbut success cannot define my worthand all these actions , all these wordsthey will not matter in the end 'cause songs will fade to silencestories , they will ceasethe dust will settlecovering all my selfless deedsso as i strive to serve youwon 't you make it clear to me ? that if i do not love , i am nothingand if i cannot live my lifeloving my brotherthen how can i love the onewho lived his life for me ? oh , sent to earth from heavenhumble servant , holy kingcome to share a story , get no gloryand save my searching soulyou knew that i 'd deny you , crucify youbut nothing could stop youfrom living for me , dying for meso that i would knowthat songs will fade to silencestories they will ceasethe dust will settlecovering all my selfless deedsbut your life here has made itclear enough for me to see he could have prospered in the suburbsinstead of working for the poordown at the inner-city missionwhere there 's so much disappointmentand very few rewardsfor every victory there 's a failureon these harsh and empty streetsbut if you ask what keeps him goinghe 'll say , " i know where i 'd beif christ had given up on me " beneath the symbol of a lost causeis where i take my standbeneath the emblem of a roman crossof a sacrificial lamb 'cause love never claims the victorytill it finally gives it 's alland that 's why the grave is emptybeneath the symbol of a lost causei 've been a slave to popular opinionsand i 've memorized the gospel of successi 've had a taste of the politics of powerand the glamor that commands the world 's respectbut when my eyes are turned to jesusnailed on a cross to die for mei hear a cock crow in the distanceand it shatters my illusionsand drives me to my kneeswhere the last and the leastmeet the prince of their peacewhere the humble are honored got a stack of booksso i could learn how to livemany are left half read , covered by the cobwebson my shelfand i got a list of lawsgrowing longer everydayand if i keep plugin awaymaybe one dayi will perfect myselfoh but all of my laborseems to be in vainand all of my lawsjust cause me more painso i fall before youwith all of my shameready and willing to be changedown metake all that i amand heal mewith the blood of the lambmold mewith your gracious handbreak me until i 'm only yoursown meoh you call me daughterand you take my blameand you run to meet mewhen i cry out your nameso i fall before youin all of my shamelord i am willing to be changedown metake all that i amand heal mewith the blood of the lambmold meby your gracious handbreak me until i 'm only yours dk .
shein : sasa toeni maoni yenu kupitia wajumbe wa bunge la katiba mapigano haya ya wakulima , wafugaji kiteto yakomeshwe kuna taarifa kuwa hali ya amani na utulivu katika baadhi ya maeneo ya wilaya ya kiteto mkoani manyara ni mbaya .
watu wanashambuliana , wanaumizana na kuuana kinyama habari kamili maisha ndivyo yalivyo : kwanini wanandoa huwa na mapenzi ya dhati mwanzoni tu , kisha huchuja ?
mwenyekiti wa tume ya mabadiliko ya katiba , jaji joseph warioba ( kushoto ) akimkabidhi rais jakaya kikwete makabrasha yenye rasimu ya pili ya katiba mpya jijini dar es salaam jana . ni serikali tatu tume ya mabadiliko ya katiba jana ilikabidhi kwa rais wa jamhuri ya muungano wa tanzania , dk .
jakaya kikwete na rais wa zanzibar , dk .
ali mohammed shein , rasimu ya pili ya katiba mpya , ambayo inasisitiza pendekezo la rasimu ya kwanza la kutaka kuwapo na muundo wa muungano wa serikali tatu , ili pande zote mbili za muungano ziwe na hadhi sawa habari kamili messenyi yatoa mikopo kwa vijana , wanawake milioni 60 / - halmashauri ya wilaya ya missenyi mkoani kagera , imetoa mikopo ya zaidi ya sh. milioni 60.1 kwa vikundi mbalimbali vya wanawake na vijana katika kipindi cha miaka sita iliyopita habari kamili ngasa , cannavaro kuikosa tusker yanga imepata pigo baada ya winga wake , mrisho ngasa , simon msuva na beki wa kati nadir haroub ' cannavaro ' kuugua jambo litakalowafanya kuwa nje ya uwanja kwa siku kadhaa , hivyo kuzikosa mechi za mwanzo za michuano ya kombe la mapinduzi inayoanza kesho visiwani zanzibar habari kamili jamii idhamirie kufikia malengo ya 3 zero 2015 : kwa miaka mingi tangu ugonjwa wa ukimwi ugundulike nchini , watu wengi , taasisi za umma , mashirika ya hirari , ya ndani na buchurago : kijiji bila zahanati tangu ukoloni : moja ya vipaumbele vilivyoainishwa ndani ya ilani ya uchaguzi ya chama cha mapinduzi ( ccm ) ya mwaka 2010 ni suala la uboreshaji mwaka 2014 huooo .... umefanya nini 2013 ? : wakati tunaelekea kukamilisha ngwe ya mwaka huu wa 2013 , yapo mambo mengi ambayo baadhi yetu waliyapanga kuyatekeleza ushiriki wa umma unavyochochea utalii wa ndani : ni safari ya takribani mwezi mmoja , ikinifikisha kwenye hifadhi za tarangire , kilimanjaro ( kinapa ) na serengeti ( senapa ) kwa nini wanawake wabakwe operesheni tokomeza majangili ? : matukio ya baadhi ya wanawake kukamatwa , kudhalilishwa mbele ya familia kwa kushikwa sehemu za siri bila ya ridhaa yao , na bai bai 2013 matukio makubwa ya mwaka : mwaka 2013 unamalizika jumatano ijayo .
uliacha makovu mengi kwa taifa na kwa mara nyingine serikali ya awamu ya nne iliingia operesheni tokomeza ujangili ingefanywa kwa uwazi , haya yasingetokea : baraza la mawaziri la serikali ya awamu ya nne kwa mara nyingine siku chache zilizopita lilipigwa na dhoruba ya kisiasa , bima , wasafirishaji washinikizwe kutibu majeruhi : hospitali teule ya rufaa ya tumbi iliyoko mkoani pwani inabeba mzigo wa kutibu abiria majeruhi na kuwaunganisha na familia pata kibonzo chako kila siku toka kwa kabwela , the flexibles na dogo luninga na redio “ it was very heartwarming , ” waytowich said .
“ i got to be santa claus for a day . ”
“ there are no words , ” seawright said .
“ there are so many caring people in the world . ”
special deal for au , nz and sa passport holdersto stay safe on a trip their policies are available at the same price to residents of all scientists from the university of new south wales in australia , ziggy marzinellia and graeme clark , prepara a suitable surface for a helicopter landing next to the mv akademik shokalskiy , still stuck in the ice off east antarctica .
professor chris turney , leader of the australasian antarctic expedition , talks to media from the top deck of the stranded mv akademik shokalskiy in antarctica .
a crew member of the akademik shokalskiy walks on the snow-covered aft deck of the stranded ship in the antarctic .
a crew member inspects the hull of the mv akademik shokalskiy in a photo released dec .
29 .
a passenger of the mv akademik shokalskiy looks at the ice in a photo released dec .
29 .
the chinese icebreaker xue long gets as close as the thick ice would allow before it could not go any further , in an aborted effort to reach the mv akademik shokalskiy .
authorities say the akademik shokalskiy will be freed from the ice , but they cannot give a timetable .
in louisiana , governor bobby jindal says his goal is to “ eliminate all personal income tax and all corporate income tax in a revenue neutral manner . ”
“ when i started as governor , we had the highest state income tax in the region , now we have the second lowest , and i want us to take it to zero , ” he said in his state of the state address .
“ look out texas , here comes kansas . ”
few governors are in as enviable a position as nebraska ’ s dave heineman .
the republican has one of the highest approval rates of any governor in the country , and his state has one of the lowest unemployment rates .
when every other commercial or advertisement you see around this time of year is about getting the aforementioned “ special someone ” the “ perfect gift , ” it tends to get to you a little bit .
the gift itself is not what is at the root of the problem but who gave it and how .
remember that commercial where the couple is skating on a pond and he leaves a diamond necklace on a tree branch for her to find ?
or the one circulating this season is where a guy travels by foot and subway with a multitude of balloons to stand outside his girlfriend ’ s window in john cusack say anything-fashion in an attempt of a romantic proposal .
i have almost cried watching two-minute jewelry commercials and if i end up crying at a short youtube ad , you had better believe that i am a wreck for feature-length romantic christmas movies .
one in particular that pulls at the heartstrings every time is love , actually .
seeing all the relationships work out in the end or become resolved makes you wonder- if all these people can get it together , why can ’ t i ?
i ’ m well aware that this is fictitious and a hollywood representation , but when even the twelve-year old boy professes his love to his dream girl on christmas eve , cute factor aside , i feel like i may as well quit trying .
and new year ’ s eve .
i absolutely love new year ’ s eve , the possibility of something new or a fresh start is always exciting , but one part is extremely daunting .
the new years kiss .
i wish i could say that it doesn ’ t mean anything , but it does .
when the clock quickly approaches midnight and there is no one around , that feeling of loneliness seeps its way into your psyche .
healthy relationships are wonderful any time of the year , but around new years eve , it is comforting to know who that person will be at midnight and hopefully it will be someone you want by your side for 2014 .
because if what “ they ” say is true , how you spend new years eve is how you spend the rest of the year , and no wants to spend 12 months feeling lonely .
so to all those who are shaking their heads , this is just an interpretation of singledom during the holiday season .
not everyone who is single and in their twenties will feel this way , this is just one girl ’ s take on it .
so bring on the mistletoe-adorned doorways and fireworks to ring in the new year , but in the mean time , i ’ ll be spending my days with a box of kleenex and a queue of jewelry commercials .
chiar de pe prima sută de metri a anului 2014 , federația rusă va afla dacă va obține câștigul scontat din găzduirea la sochi ( în perioada 7 – 23 februarie ) a jocurilor olimpice de iarnă , eveniment la care sunt așteptați peste 2500 de atleți din 65 de țări . o miză importantă pentru care kremlinul și în special președintele rus vladimir putin și-au pus în joc prestigiul politic ...
colaborarea rusia – nato – lumini și umbre ale unui business-mariaj colaborarea dintre rusia și nato , în cei 22 de ani de existență , se aseamănă mult cu o căsătorie din interes .
un business-mariaj în care cât timp interesele coincid , relația va găsi suficiente resurse interne să depășească orice divergență .
dar și atunci când interesele nu mai coincid , șansele unui compromis tind repede spre zero .
iar criza este mult mai profundă și necesită ...
o operaţiune internaţională împotriva siriei este iminentă .
toate declaraţiile politice , toate mişcările de trupe , nave de război , avioane , toate evenimentele din ultimele două săptămâni indică acelaşi lucru .
avertismentele rusiei şi iranului de duminică demonstrează că în orientul mijlociu se joacă o partidă uriaşă de poker geopolitic .
doar un miracol poate amâna confruntarea .
polonia – un model de eficienţă şi pragmatism în diplomaţia europeană nu trebuie să fii un foarte subtil analist de politică externă pentru a observa că statutul şi vizibilitatea poloniei pe scena politică europeană s-au modificat substanţial în ultimii ani , după venirea la putere , în anul 2007 , a tandemului liberal tusk-sikorski .
în mod cert , fenomenul se datorează deopotrivă consensului politic intern , dar şi unor eforturi diplomatice susţinute .
răspunsul domnului jose manel barroso la scrisoarea preşedintelui emil constantinescu vă mulţumim pentru scrisoarea dumneavoastră pe care am primit-o în data de 27 iulie 2012 , în care prezentaţi opinia dumneavoastră cu privire la reacţia comisiei europene la evoluţia situaţiei politice şi instituţionale din această vară în românia .
permiteţi-mi să clarific faptul că acţiunile comisiei ca răspuns la aceste evoluţii sunt ...
summit-ul nato – un prohod şi o renaştere mereu amânate reuniunea anuală a membrilor alianţei nord-atlantice este programată a avea loc în perioada 20-21 mai 2012 , ţara-gazdă fiind de această dată statele unite ale americii .
o reuniune aniversară am putea spune , summit-ul nato ajungând în acest an la ediţia cu numărul 25 ( un număr oficial primesc doar întâlnirile considerate tradiţionale , nu şi cele excepţionale ) .
problemele economice profunde şi de solvabilitate în grecia , spania , portugalia şi irlanda constituie un risc grav pentru sistemul bancar european .
datoriile suverane ale acestor ţări sunt de aproximativ 2 trilioane de euro şi cea mai mare parte a acestor datorii sunt deţinute de bănci europene .
cristofobia & # 8211 ; toleranţa este pentru toată lumea , mai puţin pentru intoleranţi islamofobia păleşte în comparaţie cu cristofobia prezentă în majoritatea societăţilor musulmane .
auzim des musulmani plângându-se că sunt victime ale abuzului în occident , dar se vorbeşte puţin despre felul în care sunt tratate minorităţile religioase în lumea islamică , despre modul în care creştinii sunt ucişi din cauza religiei lor .
este un genocid în creştere care ar trebui ...
după luni de negocieri cu fostul secretar general al onu , kofi annan , şi deliberări extinse în consiliul de securitate al onu ostilităţile din siria continuă .
deşi violenţa generală a scăzut uşor , iar consiliul de observatori onu a crescut la 300 , regimul dictatorial al lui bashar al-assad ignoră cererea de „ încetare a focului ” .
afganistanul a fost tema principală a summit-ului nato de la chicago .
nu întâmplător !
după mai bine de zece ani de război , pierderi umane şi costuri materiale importante , alianţa nord-atlantică încearcă să pună punct unui conflict extrem de nepopular acasă .
fie că e vorba de ţări europene , din zona pacificului sau chiar de statele unite .
dar retragerea trupelor şi a materialului de ...
talks between orca exploration and the tanzanian government to double the amount of gas produced on songo songo are dragging on . ( ... ) , natural family planning outreachworld organization of the billings ovulation methodbillings ovulation method association - usafamily of the americasmontana news association how schools are making changes to securtiy measuresby montana news president obama 's sibiling running for office in kenyaby jim kouri another billings casino robbed at gun point : police say it is the same man with the same nickel plated gunby montana news fully functional new air condition unit .
the outside ribbing is made of can be moved in an instance by helicopter or truck & they can have any additions one wants. and strong we can incorporate any fittings and fixtures you want portugal to ponder bailout exit strategy in january - pm been a bit surprised by “ how busy i can be . ”
as a boy he visited the state to see relatives , to be part of this class of deacons and their and a raffle with proceeds benefitting the diocesan mission in guatemala .
the winner of cotton candy , at right , raffle winner schlick and monsignor kevin o ’ neill pose for a best go via taxi or you can take a bus from mor chit bts to chaengwattana road .
it 's easy and cheap although the number 52.bus 52 from victory or the bus 166 over the expressway , as soon as it leaves the expressway get off and get a motorcyle taxi .
the office is near the mfa and before the prachacheun turning , coming from vibhavadi rangsit .
the ministry of foreign affairs is nearby it might even be the story of the decade here in town .
dredging to begin in warner ’ s bayou in january sat dec 28 , 2013 02 : 10 am est tim tebow joins sec network , still pursuing nfl mon dec 30 , 2013 6 : 10 pm est teco trolley to run until 1 a.m.
new year ’ s day mon dec 30 , 2013 8 : 10 pm est schiano endorses qb glennon for future mon dec 30 , 2013 8 : 10 pm est lights going off at pepin estate wed dec 25 , 2013 08 : 10 am est billings entertainment : yabba griffith and the traxx reggae bandby montana news my mother just wants to go home mon dec 30 , 2013 03 : 19 am est two farmington men indicted on drug charges sun dec 29 , 2013 03 : 19 am est farmington woman charged with willful concealment sun dec 29 , 2013 03 : 19 am est legalizing 1 ounce of pot up for vote in n.h. house mon dec 30 , 2013 1 : 19 pm est five injured in crash on rte .
108 in stratham fri dec 27 , 2013 03 : 19 am est new year ’ s eve gala tied to town ’ s 375th fri dec 27 , 2013 03 : 19 am est old herb and rob ’ s site to be demolished for parking fri dec 27 , 2013 03 : 19 am est legalizing 1 ounce of pot up for vote in n.h. house mon dec 30 , 2013 11 : 19 am est phs grad nears 100th marathon mon dec 30 , 2013 03 : 19 am est new year ’ s eve fireworks coming to hampton beach fri dec 27 , 2013 1 : 19 pm est seacoast science center coming to seals ’ rescue fri dec 27 , 2013 03 : 19 am est birds run afoul of departing flight at pease mon dec 30 , 2013 5 : 19 pm est snowy owls have seacoast birders aflutter mon dec 30 , 2013 5 : 19 pm est this has not been the case over the past few years , and statistics indicate an alarming number of bankruptcies filed by smes – around 100,000 smes have been wound up in romania in the past few years .
improving the law on insolvency and the restructuring / winding up procedures , together with the justice ministry and the ministry for public finances , so as to build a more dynamic business environment ; drawing up and implementing the “ sme test ” – the impact on smes .
« previoususl va lansa un program de microindustrializare interviu cu domnul deputat constantin niţă , vicepreşedinte psd şi preşedintele psd judeţul braşov next „ venitul unui medic ar trebui să fie de trei ori mai mare decât venitul mediu pe economie “ interviu cu prof. univ. dr mircea cinteză © 2012 cadran politic · rss · designed by theme junkie · powered by wordpress diocese of duluth - catholic church in northeastern minnesota the founder and coordinator of kiwoce graceanna ernest lyimo explained that , her institution was at first founded in 2006 with a group of women has provided life skills , formal and informal education as well enterprenuirship skills to the marginalized women and youth with the aim of mitigating poverty and illiterate among the members of the community .
terms of use the baffling reaction to a mindless television personality by equally mindless political leaders | mark riddle the politicos who rushed to support this vitriol are truly the ignorant ones in this saga .
our nlc community would respectfully disagree with robertson and the likes of jindal but point out that they are not entitled to their own set of facts .
taking a step back , what phil robertson really taught us is that we have a lot of work to do as a country . we need to move past the bickering and the instinctive partisan politicking , towards real leadership .
it is time to stand up and get rid of shortsighted , divisive , and pandering politicians .
while this may be a bit cliché , music will always be one of the most important artworks in my life .
i cannot imagine going through a semester without it .
almost everything i know would just feel so empty .
how would i pump myself up at the gym if i didn ’ t have an awesome collection of songs to get me going ?
would i even go to my classes if the long walk to school wasn ’ t made better by shuffling through my ipod ?
i can ’ t even try and imagine a semester without music that would me through it .
and for me , it is most beneficial to listen to music while i ’ m studying .
more tatar-bashkir newslatest from azatliq.org татарстан һава юллары очышларын туктатты 2013 йомгаклары : татарстан 2013 йомгаклары : башкортстандагы татар тормышы казанда олимпиада утын ясалма шатлык күрсәтеп каршыладылар акш дәүләт секретаре 1 гыйнварда якын көнчыгышка юл ала radio azatliq ( in tatar and bashkir ) features & commentary copyright © irin 2014 .
all rights reserved .
this material comes to you via irin , the humanitarian news and analysis service of the un office for the coordination of humanitarian affairs .
the opinions expressed do not necessarily reflect those of the united nations or its member states .
the boundaries , names and designations used on maps on this site and links to external sites do not imply official endorsement or acceptance by the un .
republication is subject to terms and conditions as set out in the irin copyright page.family displaced in kountze fire on the bee they were able to get out and were treated at the scene for cold exposure .
bellevue fire officialssay it appears the firestarted under the trailer and burned up one side of the home near 31st and washington .
online abonelike-gazetehoşgeldi̇n 201401 ocak 2014 çarşambaanasayfaekonomifinansdış haberlerpolitikatoplumsektörlerkategori̇lerfinansne , nerede , ne zamangündembi̇k i̇lanlarıdünya ihtdış i̇lişkileremtiai̇şletme-yönetimmevzuatnews in englishgüncelyorum i̇ncelemebölgelerdenözel dosyalarresmi gazetetiger monitorbankacılık sektörübilişimdemir-çelik sektörüenerji sektörügıda sektörühaberleşme sektörühizmetleri̇nşaat sektörükimya-petrokimya sektörümadencilik sektörümağazacılık-perakendecilik sektörümedya sektörüotomotiv sektörüplastik-kauçuk sektörüsanayisavunma sanayiisigortacılık sektörütarım ve hayvancılıktaşımacılık sektörütekstil sektörüturizm sektörü17 : 48 - putinden , gül ve erdoğana yeni yıl mesajı17 : 32 - yılın yazar , fikir insanı ve sanatçıları açıklandı17 : 29 - filistinin prag büyükelçisi hayatını kaybetti17 : 24 - bulgaristanda asgari ücret 340 leva oldu17 : 22 - türkiye , avrupa ’ nın 11. zengini ! 17 : 16 - kuzu paralel devlet twitlerine açıklama getirdi17 : 15 - ötv artışı sektörü kötü etkileyecek16 : 38 - sayıştay tcdd raporu : gerekirse soruşturulsun16 : 03 - resmi burslu öğrencilere yeni yıl sürprizi15 : 54 - fakıbabadan türgeve 3 milyon liralık arsabilişim haberlerigüneş , yasad başkanlığına yeniden seçildiyazılım sanayicileri derneği yönetim kurulu başkanı doğan ufuk güneş 'in , genel kurul toplantısı sonrası görevini 2 yıl daha yürüteceği kesinleştiblackberry , foxconn ile anlaştı4,4 milyar dolar zarar eden kanadalı akıllı telefon üreticisi blackberry , foxconn ile beş yıllık üretim anlaşması imzaladığını duyurduttnet yılın en iyi oyunlarını seçecekplaystore , oyun dünyasının en önemli sitelerinden merlin 'in kazanı ile birlikte " playstore yılın oyunları " anketini gerçekleştiriyorbtk kararı geldiğinde inceleyeceğizturkcell bireysel satıştan sorumlu genel müdür yardımcısı acar , btk 'nın abonelik sözleşmesinde yer alması gereken asgari bilgilerden bir kısmını bulundurmadığı gerekçesiyle şirketlerine verdiği para cezasını değerlendirdi " amacımız esnafın dijital çağa ayak uydurması " vodafone türkiye i̇cra kurulu başkanı gökhan öğüt , " türkiye 'nin dijital dönüşümüne destek verirken amacımız , esnafımızın da dijital çağa ayak uydurmayı başarmasını sağlamak " dedigerçek şikeye ' sanal ' çözümnihat ergün , dünyanın ilk sanal antrenör programını türk takımlarına önererek , " kulüpler buna ilgi gösterdikleri zaman maçları şikeyle almaktan vazgeçecek " dedi " yerli tabletin içeriği doldurulmalı " türksat aş genel müdürü dr. özkan dalbay , yerli tablet ve akıllı tahta gibi gelişmelerin yerli oyun ya da diğer görsel içeriklerle doldurulmazsa insan kaynağının istenilen düzeye ulaşamayacağını söyledi " bilişim sektörü için türk mühendis yok " btk başkanı tayfun acarer , şirketlerin bilişim sektörü için türk mühendis bulamadığını belirterek , üniversitelerde verilen eğitimin sektörün ihtiyaç duyduğu konulardan uzak olduğunu söylediapple yine kazandısamsung ve apple arasında süren patent davasında 290 milyon dolarlık para cezası kararı çıktıtürkiye yazılım üretecekmicrosoft türkiye genel müdürü tamer özmen , türkiye 'nin son 10 yılda birçok alanda büyük başarılar elde ettiğini belirterek , " biz de türkiye 'nin yazılımda üretici konuma gelmesi için microsoft açık akademi 'yi kurduk " dedi.tanı , 3 ödül kazandıtanı , doğrudan pazarlama ödülleri 'nde ( dpi̇d ) 320 proje ve 84 ajans arasında 3 ödüle birden layık görüldüvodafone 'dan " cep cüzdan " uygulamasıvodafone , akıllı telefon uygulaması " cep cüzdan " ı müşterilerinin kullanımına sunduavea yeni uygulamalarıyla görücüye çıktıavea 'nın deprem uygulaması " orada kimse var mı ? " ve fotoğraf uygulaması " fotofilm " ar-ge merkezleri zirvesi 'nde ilgi odağı olduttnet 'den son 5 yılın en yüksek satışıttnet genel müdürü abdullah orkun kaya , yılın ilk dokuz ayında gelirlerini yüzde 12 ile çift haneli büyütmeyi başardıyeni dünyaya ayak uyduramayan yok olurbugün başlayan turkcell teknoloji zirvesi 'ni ilk günde beş binden fazla kişi ağırladı12345678sonraki sayfa dünya onlinedünya grubu hakkındaonline künyedünya gazetesi künyesiabonelikalışverişrssreklami̇letişimdiğer sitelerimizkobiden.comdunyastore.compcworld.com.trcomputerworld.com.trbyte.com.trdunyagida.com.trdunyainsaat.com.trdünya ekonomi tvnewsletter - sudbury northern life online abonelike-gazetehoşgeldi̇n 201401 ocak 2014 çarşambaanasayfaekonomifinansdış haberlerpolitikatoplumsektörlerkategori̇lerfinansne , nerede , ne zamangündembi̇k i̇lanlarıdünya ihtdış i̇lişkileremtiai̇şletme-yönetimmevzuatnews in englishgüncelyorum i̇ncelemebölgelerdenözel dosyalarresmi gazetetiger monitorbankacılık sektörübilişimdemir-çelik sektörüenerji sektörügıda sektörühaberleşme sektörühizmetleri̇nşaat sektörükimya-petrokimya sektörümadencilik sektörümağazacılık-perakendecilik sektörümedya sektörüotomotiv sektörüplastik-kauçuk sektörüsanayisavunma sanayiisigortacılık sektörütarım ve hayvancılıktaşımacılık sektörütekstil sektörüturizm sektörü17 : 48 - putinden , gül ve erdoğana yeni yıl mesajı17 : 32 - yılın yazar , fikir insanı ve sanatçıları açıklandı17 : 29 - filistinin prag büyükelçisi hayatını kaybetti17 : 24 - bulgaristanda asgari ücret 340 leva oldu17 : 22 - türkiye , avrupa ’ nın 11. zengini ! 17 : 16 - kuzu paralel devlet twitlerine açıklama getirdi17 : 15 - ötv artışı sektörü kötü etkileyecek16 : 38 - sayıştay tcdd raporu : gerekirse soruşturulsun16 : 03 - resmi burslu öğrencilere yeni yıl sürprizi15 : 54 - fakıbabadan türgeve 3 milyon liralık arsatoplumresmi burslu öğrencilere yeni yıl sürpriziresmi burslu öğrencilere ödenecek yurt içi aylık burs miktarı ; yüzde 20 artışla lisans öğrencileri için 360 tl , lisansüstü öğrencileri için 720 tl olarak belirlendiegzersizi ideal ritimde müzikle yapın ! araştırmalara göre spor yaparken ' ideal ' ritimde müzik dinlemek performansı artırıyor , yorgunluğu azaltıyor .
en uygun antrenman müziği dakikada 125 ile 140 vuruş aralığına sahip olmalı .
çok sayıda popüler parça ve müzik türü bu tempo aralığında . ' bazı belediyelerde vergi ve harç % 500 arttı ’ meb paydaşlara dershaneleri soracakmeb , dershanelerin özel okula veya diğer kurumlara dönüşümünün nasıl planlanması gerektiği hususlarında bilgi paylaşımı için görüşlerini talep ettiygs başvuruları yarın başlıyorbu yıl ilk kez özel yetenek sınavı ile öğrenci alan programlarda engelli öğrenciler için ygs taban puanı 100'e indirildibüyük ikramiye bu bilete isabet ettimilli piyango 'nun 31 aralık yılbaşı özel çekilişinde 50 milyon liralık büyük ikramiye , " 2174451 " numaralı bilete isabet ettipolis gezi parkı 'nı kapattıyeni yıla taksim 'de girmek isteyenler yoğunluk oluşturmaya başladı .
polis , gezi parkı 'nı kapatırken , cumhuriyet anıtı 'nın çevresi de boşaltıldıtmsf 'den basın konseyi 'ne tepkitmsf , basın konseyi 'nin " tmsf , basın özgürlüğüne karşı tavır ve medyayı yeniden dizayn etme çabası içinde " sözleri için açıklamalarda bulundui̇bb 'den yılbaşı önlemlerii̇stanbul büyükşehir belediyesi , i̇stanbulluların yılbaşı gecesini rahat ve huzurlu geçirmesi için bazı önlemler aldıyargıtay 'dan mehmet ali şahin 'e cevapyargıtay ak parti 'li mehmet ali şahin 'in iddialarına cevap verdierdoğan 'dan today 's zaman yazarına davabaşbakan recep tayyip erdoğan , today 's zaman yazarı mahir zeynalov 'a , " hakaret " iddiasıyla suç duyurusunda bulundubaşbuğ 'a tahliye talebibalyoz davası avukatları , başbakan recep tayyip erdoğan 'ın siyasi başdanışmanı yalçın akdoğan 'ın " milli orduya kumpas kurdular " açıklamasının peşini bırakmıyor .
i̇lker başbuğ için de tahliye başvurusunda bulunulduhükümlüler oy kullanabilecekyüksek seçim kurulu , cezaevinde yatan 100 binin üzerinde hükümlünün yerel seçimlerde oy kullanabileceğine karar verdihayrünnisa gül 'e ödülcumhurbaşkanı gül 'ün eşi hayrünnisa gül 'e , pakistan 'ın sind eyalet hükümet kadını geliştirme sosyal güvenlik ve özel eğitim bakanlığı tarafından ' şehit benazir butto mükemmeliyet ödülü ' verild2013'te 2 milyon kişi pasaport aldıemniyet genel müdürlüğü pasaport ve güvenli evrak daire başkanlığı verilerine göre , 3 yılda türkiye 'de 8 milyon 238 bin 921 kişi pasaport aldı12345678sonraki sayfa dünya onlinedünya grubu hakkındaonline künyedünya gazetesi künyesiabonelikalışverişrssreklami̇letişimdiğer sitelerimizkobiden.comdunyastore.compcworld.com.trcomputerworld.com.trbyte.com.trdunyagida.com.trdunyainsaat.com.trdünya ekonomi tv lincoln | the valley breeze unemployment set to get worse in usa and as the fed keeps on prionting money to save institutions the banks keep on doing the same thing .
gm has announced it will get rid of 2 ( out of 7 jets ) of its corporate jets after arriving in washington to ask for bail out monies yet have no concern to trim costs nor had a plan of how they will trim costs .
gm pays more money in corporate sponsorship than ford or chysler who also asked for a handout but they too had no game plan to trim costs as well as execs salaries ..
[ usa states budget deficit 2010 & 2011 ] [ unemployment usa & thailand 2009 ] [ crises blame -guess who ? ]
[ trump casinos in chap 11 bankrupcy ] [ read george soros crises report ] [ madoff ponzi fraud crises ] [ thailand in crises ] [ us economy worsens ] [ asia crises better than us ] [ depression safeguards ] [ thailand finance news ] [ amex bailout wrong ] [ banks bailout : blame who ] [ blame cr act or who ? ]
[ aig abuse bailout funds ] [ gm & bankruptcy better ] [ usa bailout will not work ] [ pension funds ] [ hedge funds 2008 ] [ investing fund guidelines ] why you [ do not invest in finance companies ] [ buy gold not shares in finance companies ] [ thai property speculation & sub prime crises ] of privacy and our company will act accordingly .
see faqs homeanalysisglobal issuesafrica selected columns by moe wosepka and rebecca mastee of the montana catholic conference , published in the montana catholic .
mar .
2013 : at the legislature ’ s midpoint , how are we doing ?
feb .
2013 : a lenten journey to the foot of the cross apr .
2011 : the use of prudential judgment in issues of public policy may 2010 : the " choice " of physician-assisted suicide is an illusion jan .
2009 : forming public policy : how can i be involved ?
case on illegal possession of tusks facing chinese nationals adjourned na karama kenyunko the case was adjourned by resident magistrate emmilius mchauru on behalf of principal resident magistrate isaya arufani who was not present as he had other official duties to attend .
it was alleged that the accused committed the offence on november 2 , this year at kifaru street , mikocheni b in kinondoni district .
crash reported on parmer lane near mopac mon dec 30 , 2013 8 : 27 pm est feds deny individual disaster aid for central texans hit by halloween floods mon dec 30 , 2013 6 : 27 pm est season for caring : new car on the way for family with sickle cell disease mon dec 30 , 2013 6 : 27 pm est tax fairness in eye of the beholder sat dec 28 , 2013 8 : 27 pm est georgetown to consider citywide spraying for mosquitos tue sep 25 , 2012 4 : 27 pm edt premier : u.s. may not act sat sep 15 , 2012 12 : 27 am edt new brushy creek pedestrian bridge now open mon sep 10 , 2012 6 : 27 pm edt 2013 : abj ’ s photos of the year mon dec 30 , 2013 8 : 27 pm est asure software boosts capital borrowing mon dec 30 , 2013 4 : 27 pm est amp exec : waller creek bringing ’ lots of new money and energy ’ to music district mon dec 30 , 2013 2 : 27 pm est ’ lights out ’ near for popular light bulbs mon dec 30 , 2013 6 : 27 pm est fans reflefct on brown ’ s career at ut mon dec 30 , 2013 6 : 27 pm est flu cases spike in texas mon dec 30 , 2013 10 : 27 am est mack brown hoping to go out with a win mon dec 30 , 2013 12 : 27 am est remembering a beloved teacher & her son mon dec 30 , 2013 12 : 27 am est remembering a beloved teacher and herson sun dec 29 , 2013 10 : 27 pm est ethiopia airline ilipojaribu kutua kwa dharura uwanja mdogo wa ndege wa arusha airport depuis le deuxième assassinat politique en moins de 6 mois , les laïcs manifestent contre ennahda et demande la dissolution de l 'assemblée constituante .
un islamiste présumé a été tué , cinq autres arrêtées au cours d 'une opération de police dimanche matin dans une maison dans la banlieue de tunis .
les opérations de démantèlement de groupes terroristes se multiplient depuis le second assassinat politique dans le pays et la mort de soldats à la frontière les habitants de ouardia , banlieue au sud de la capitale ont été réveillés par des tirs à 5h30 par une opération commando visant une maison qui abritait cinq suspects ont été arrêtés , un homme a été tué et un autre blessé au cours moins d 'une semaine après une ambuscade au mont chaambi où 8 soldats tunisiens ont été retrouvés fusillés et égorgés , les autorités tunisiennes ont depuis promis une plus grande fermeté dans la lutte anti-terroriste .
a chaambi , frontière tuniso-algérienne , l 'armée a eu recours à des dix jihadistes auraient été tués , chiffres non encore confirmés par le on a appris dans la soirée dimanche qu 'un soldat tunisien a été tué , sept autres blessés par l 'explosion d 'une mine près de la frontière algérienne , où ces derniers jours , le pays a été secoué par plusieurs alertes terroristes : - un colis suspect et une menace de mort ont été retrouvés devant la maison samedi à l 'appel d 'ennahda , majoritaire au sein de la coaltion gouvernementa le , plusieurs dizaines de milliers de personnes ont manifesté à tunis . - un homme a tiré sur une patrouille de police dans l 'est du pays .
dans les centres commerciaux , lieux publics et ambassades , la vigilance est accrue et l 'insécurité dans le pays ne cesse d 'accroitre les passions chez les si l 'identité des hommes tués au mont chaambi n 'a pas encore été révélée , le premier ministre , ali laarayedh a révélé placer la lutte anti-terroriste au-dessus " rendez les armes , rendez vous à la police et la société et la justice le prendra en considération " , a déclaré le premier ministre ali larayedh , cité par ce crime attribué à la mouvance jihadiste , et dont l 'exécutant et le commanditaire n 'ont pas été arrêtés , avait entraîné la chute du premier depuis l 'assassinat de l 'opposant politique mohamed brahmi le 25 juillet dernier , la tunisie est de nouveau ébranlée sur le plan sécuritaire , politique cela fait maintenant 10 jours que des manifestations géantes se tiennent quotidiennement devant le parlement pour demander la dissolution du gouvernement .
dimanche soir une manifestation de femmes étaient prévues à tunis .
elles devaient s 'habiller en blanc et rouge en signe de condamnation du apr .
2009 : god hears the cry of the poor and sick at clinica maxeña can you tell us a few things about the history of the romanians who live in timoc valley ?
what was the soviet influence on this part of the balkans , and how did it affect the romanians in timoc ?
was there any collaboration between yugoslavia ’ s and romania ’ s secret services ?
« previousvalea timocului este o zonă în care românii au continuitate încă de la ocupaţia romană interviu cu domnul tiberius puiu next un adevărat român & # 8211 ; interviu cu asr prinţul paul al româniei © 2012 cadran politic · rss · designed by theme junkie · powered by wordpressobituaries - december 25 , 2013 on the bee china : police kill 8 assailants in a clash in xinjiangnew york timespolice gun down 8 ' terrorists ' in xinjiangal jazeera americasee all 256 sourcesrelated xinjiang the best times newspaper .
they are designed to be a we hope these directories will be helpful to you and click on the directory you are interested in to view the contents .
the listings in the directories are paid advertisements and should not be agustawestland denies wrongdoing in chopper dealdaily news & analysisupdate 3-india scraps agustawestland helicopter deal , agrees to arbitrationreutersin-depth : india cancels rs 3546-crore agustawestland vvip chopper dealtimes of indiasee all 123 sourcesrelated agustawestland new year cheer : 8.5 lakh new jobs , 20 % pay hike in 2014financial express850000 new jobs , 20 % pay hike in new yearbusiness standardsee all 16 sourcesrelated recruitment hindu business linesee realtime coverageformer infosys cfo balakrishnan joins aaphindu business line- & lrm ; 1 hour ago & lrm ; in a surprise move , v balakrishnan , who stepped down as board member of software behemoth infosys recently creating ripples in the corporate circles , has joined the aam admi party.related infosys infosys ex-board member v balakrishnan joins aam aadmi partydaily news & analysisaap ideology catches infy former cfo 's fancybusiness standardsee all 10 sourcesrelated infosys hp may cut 34000 jobs by oct this yearzee newswikipedia : hewlett-packardsee all 152 sourcesrelated hewlett-packard banks to continue accepting scribbled notes , says rbibusiness todayrbi clarifies on scribbled banknotesrtt newssee all 32 sourcesrelated reserve bank of india according to him , stamps have a great contribution to the development of tourism .
he said it is the government ’ s wish to make zanzibar one of the best tourism centres on the coast of the indian ocean .
why it is not just about pamela , mike and rob newseconomyfinancehealth carereal estateretailwealthautosearningsenergymediapoliticscommentaryspecial reportsasiaeuropemarketspre-marketsu.s.asiaeuropestockscommoditiescurrenciesbondsfundsetfsinvestingfinancial advisorspersonal financecnbc explainsportfoliowatchliststock screenerfund screenertechmobilesocial mediaenterprisegamingcybersecuritysmall businessfranchisingfinancingmanagementvideolatest videodigital workshopu.s. videoasia videoeurope videoceo interviewsanalyst interviewsfull episodesclosed captioningshowswatch livecnbc u.s.cnbc asia-pacificcnbc europecnbc worldfull episodescnbcabout cnbcsite mapvideo reprintsadvertisecareershelpcontactprivacy policyterms of serviceindependent programming reportlatest news releasesrsscertain market data provided by thomson reutersdata also provided bydata is a real-time snapshot * data is delayed at least 15 minutesglobal business and financial news , stock quotes , and market data and analysis © 2014 cnbc llc . all rights reserved.a division of nbcuniversalthe montana catholic : deacon john uggetti : responding to spiritual needs a daily practice ( june 21 , 2013 ) he has been one of the deacons at the parish. worked for the anaconda co. and his mother for an become a member of the legacy circle by taking one of the following steps : notify us of your intention to make a bequest to prairie public if you do provide for prairie public broadcasting in your will or other estate plans , please let us know .
by doing so , you do not obligate yourself in any way , but allow us to plan for the future and to honor your intentions .
richmond fed president jeffrey lacker also tells cnbc the looming departure of ben bernanke had " nothing at all " to do with the taper decision .
newseconomyfinancehealth carereal estateretailwealthautosearningsenergymediapoliticscommentaryspecial reportsasiaeuropemarketspre-marketsu.s.asiaeuropestockscommoditiescurrenciesbondsfundsetfsinvestingfinancial advisorspersonal financecnbc explainsportfoliowatchliststock screenerfund screenertechmobilesocial mediaenterprisegamingcybersecuritysmall businessfranchisingfinancingmanagementvideolatest videodigital workshopu.s. videoasia videoeurope videoceo interviewsanalyst interviewsfull episodesclosed captioningshowswatch livecnbc u.s.cnbc asia-pacificcnbc europecnbc worldfull episodescnbcabout cnbcsite mapvideo reprintsadvertisecareershelpcontactprivacy policyterms of serviceindependent programming reportlatest news releasesrsscertain market data provided by thomson reutersdata also provided bydata is a real-time snapshot * data is delayed at least 15 minutesglobal business and financial news , stock quotes , and market data and analysis © 2014 cnbc llc . all rights reserved.a division of nbcuniversalthe montana catholic : retrouvaille weekend : a lifeline for catholic marriages ( october 18 , 2013 ) of us .
it was a team of couples and a mri interventions adds sainz to its board mon dec 30 , 2013 1 : 26 pm est hattiesburg closing in on contract with groundworx mon dec 30 , 2013 6 : 17 pm est union carbide faces deadline to file for rehearing mon dec 30 , 2013 10 : 17 am est city to seek ownership of unkempt cemetery mon dec 30 , 2013 10 : 17 am est ut to increase minimum starting pay mon dec 30 , 2013 09 : 26 am est memphis man charged with enticement of a juvenile sun dec 29 , 2013 7 : 26 pm est report : irs refunded $ 4b to identity thieves thu nov 7 , 2013 7 : 26 pm est man charged in fatal stabbing in haywood county wed nov 6 , 2013 5 : 26 pm est ga .
girl found in trash bin had tried to run away wed nov 6 , 2013 5 : 26 pm est afghanistanalbaniaalgeriaamerican samoaandorraangolaanguillaantarcticaantigua and barbudaargentinaarmeniaarubaaustraliaaustriaazerbaijanåland islandsbahamasbahrainbangladeshbarbadosbelarusbelgiumbelizebeninbermudabhutanbolivia , plurinational state ofbosnia and herzegovinabotswanabouvet islandbrazilbritish indian ocean territorybrunei darussalambulgariaburkina fasoburundicambodiacamerooncanadacape verdecayman islandscôte d 'ivoirecentral african republicchadchilechinachristmas islandcocos ( keeling ) islandscolombiacomoroscongocongo , the democratic republic of thecook islandscosta ricacroatiacubacyprusczech republicdenmarkdjiboutidominicadominican republicecuadoregyptel salvadorequatorial guineaeritreaestoniaethiopiafalkland islands ( malvinas ) faroe islandsfijifinlandfrancefrench guianafrench polynesiafrench southern territoriesgabongambiageorgiagermanyghanagibraltargreecegreenlandgrenadaguadeloupeguamguatemalaguernseyguineaguinea-bissauguyanahaitiheard island and mcdonald islandsholy see ( vatican city state ) hondurashong konghungaryicelandindiaindonesiairan , islamic republic ofiraqirelandisle of manisraelitalyjamaicajapanjerseyjordankazakhstankenyakiribatikorea , democratic people 's republic ofkorea , republic ofkuwaitkyrgyzstanlao people 's democratic republiclatvialebanonlesotholiberialibyan arab jamahiriyaliechtensteinlithuanialuxembourgmacaomacedonia , the former yugoslav republic ofmadagascarmalawimalaysiamaldivesmalimaltamarshall islandsmartiniquemauritaniamauritiusmayottemexicomicronesia , federated states ofmoldova , republic ofmonacomongoliamontenegromontserratmoroccomozambiquemyanmarnamibianaurunepalnetherlandsnetherlands antillesnew caledonianew zealandnicaraguanigernigerianiuenorfolk islandnorthern mariana islandsnorwayomanpakistanpalaupalestinian territory , occupiedpanamapapua new guineaparaguayperuphilippinespitcairnpolandportugalpuerto ricoqatarréunionromaniarussian federationrwandasaint barthélemysaint helena , ascension and tristan da cunhasaint kitts and nevissaint luciasaint martinsaint pierre and miquelonsaint vincent and the grenadinessamoasan marinosao tome and principesaudi arabiasenegalserbiaseychellessierra leonesingaporeslovakiasloveniasolomon islandssomaliasouth africasouth georgia and the south sandwich islandsspainsri lankasudansurinamesvalbard and jan mayenswazilandswedenswitzerlandsyrian arab republictaiwan , province of chinatajikistantanzania , united republic ofthailandtimor-lestetogotokelautongatrinidad and tobagotunisiaturkeyturkmenistanturks and caicos islandstuvaluugandaukraineunited arab emiratesunited kingdomunited statesunited states minor outlying islandsuruguayuzbekistanvanuatuvenezuela , bolivarian republic ofviet namvirgin islands , britishvirgin islands , u.s.wallis and futunawestern saharayemenzambiazimbabweget google stuff продинфо - новости : закупочные цены на молоко в беларуси повышаются на 10 % - продовольственный рынок беларуси главная » новости беларуси » закупочные цены на молоко в беларуси ...
закупочные цены на молоко в беларуси повышаются на 10 % 11 августа 2010закупочные цены на молоко в республике беларусь повысятся в среднем на 10 % .
такое решение содержится в постановлении совета министров республики беларусь от 9 августа 2010 г . № 1177 .
на основании документа внесены соответствующие изменения в постановление совета министров республики беларусь от 5 июня 2008 г . № 812 " о закупочных ценах на продукцию животноводства , реализуемую для республиканских государственных нужд " , сообщает pravo.by со ссылкой на белта .
закупочная цена на молоко сорта " экстра " возрастет c br1000 до br1100 за 1 кг , молоко высшего сорта - с br865 до br950 , на молоко первого сорта - с br795 до br875 .
как сообщили в министерстве сельского хозяйства и продовольствия республики беларусь , принятие постановления позволит повысить рентабельность производства молока до 15 % , получить сельскохозяйственным организациям в августе-декабре 2010 года около br200 млрд. дополнительной выручки и направить ее на закупку минеральных удобрений , горючесмазочных материалов , а также повышение заработной осуществляться поэтапным повышением отпускных цен в рамках прогнозных параметров инфляции , что наряду с экспортной выручкой обеспечит прибыльную работу молочной отрасли на уровне 2-3 % " , - подчеркнули в в июне нынешнего года оставались стабильными , а с середины июля стали расти цены на молочную продукцию , поставляемую на экспорт .
только за последнюю неделю июля экспортные цены на основные позиции молочной продукции увеличились в среднем на $ 200 за тонну .
в результате цены внешнего рынка , несмотря на повышение закупочных цен на молоко в марте и июне 2010 года по 10 % , позволяют перерабатывающим организациям по ряду позиций получать значительную прибыль .
так , рентабельность сыров и сухого цельного молока превысила 20 % , казеина - 35 % , сухого обезжиренного молока составляет около 70 % .
отпускные цены на социально значимую цельномолочную продукцию , реализуемую в республике , с повышением их в апреле и мае 2010 года по 2 % и в июле - на 3 % , вместе с тем с повышением цен на материальные ресурсы , используемые для производства по оперативным данным , за январь-июнь 2010 года молокоперерабатывающей отраслью получено br383,8 млрд. прибыли от реализации и br246 млрд. чистой прибыли .
уровень рентабельности реализованной молочной отсутствие сезонного снижения цен внешнего рынка на молочную продукцию и был внесен на утверждение проект постановления совета министров республики беларусь об увеличении закупочных цен на молоко на 10 % " , - three downtown eateries close in one month mon dec 30 , 2013 1 : 20 pm est things looking up for nm ski resorts mon dec 30 , 2013 03 : 20 am est jennifer aniston , courteney cox wear bikinis on vacation in mexicohuffington postjennifer aniston and justin theroux put on affectionate display on mexico holidayirish independenthighly cited : jennifer aniston and courteney cox show off bikini bodies in mexico — see the ... e !
online - by jordana ossadsee all 318 sourcesrelated jennifer aniston american sheriffs unite to defy obama 's gun grabbing lawsby jim kouri miss. executes former butcher who dismembered man thu jun 21 , 2012 12 : 17 am edt ap news alert thu jun 21 , 2012 12 : 17 am edt bond now $ 1m for female suspect in stripper case thu jun 21 , 2012 12 : 17 am edt man selected to run jackson county sheriff ’ s office is ready for the challenge mon dec 30 , 2013 8 : 17 pm est tebow time on tv : ex-qb picked up by espn mon dec 30 , 2013 6 : 17 pm est gulfport ’ s second casino gets the go ahead mon dec 30 , 2013 4 : 17 pm est have safe firework fun this new year ’ s mon dec 30 , 2013 4 : 17 pm est cleveland man shot sun dec 29 , 2013 08 : 17 am est flu-like cases on the rise sun dec 29 , 2013 08 : 17 am est no injuries in accident or fire sat dec 28 , 2013 8 : 17 pm est foundation at last has a home mon dec 30 , 2013 12 : 17 pm est rainforest carwash now open in hattiesburg mon dec 30 , 2013 8 : 17 pm est a country christmas sun dec 29 , 2013 10 : 17 am est city in planning stages for renovation of historic colonnade mon dec 30 , 2013 02 : 17 am est the dart : friends gather at lower woodville and cloverdale roads mon dec 30 , 2013 02 : 17 am est applewhite to leave bulldogs , transfer mon dec 30 , 2013 6 : 17 pm est tim tebow joins sec network , still pursuing nfl mon dec 30 , 2013 6 : 17 pm est the index link in the top right corner of any page to return here !
newspaper software | connect email marketing | express website buildergood or not , change is coming to the nsa - the washington post man breaks arm of good samaritan pizza delivery driver mon dec 30 , 2013 8 : 07 pm est goddard to run for secretary of state mon dec 30 , 2013 8 : 07 pm est flagstaff restaurant reopens doors after ’ imminent health hazard ’ mon dec 30 , 2013 8 : 07 pm est terry goddard plans run for arizona sec of state mon dec 30 , 2013 10 : 07 pm est appeals court denies arpaio ’ s bid for a rehearing mon dec 30 , 2013 8 : 07 pm est smoker is doused , then arrested mon dec 30 , 2013 4 : 07 pm est arizona man fatally mauled by dog was teacher mon dec 30 , 2013 4 : 07 pm est az family looking for lost service dog mon dec 30 , 2013 10 : 07 pm est new info on mom accused in poisoning mon dec 30 , 2013 10 : 07 pm est new details on mom accused in poisoning mon dec 30 , 2013 8 : 07 pm est goddard to run for secretary of state mon dec 30 , 2013 8 : 07 pm est az smoker doused with water , arrested mon dec 30 , 2013 4 : 07 pm est what ’ s closed for new year ’ s day sun dec 29 , 2013 8 : 07 pm est the weekend roundup mon dec 30 , 2013 10 : 07 pm est ’ why would a mother do that to her own child ? ’
neighbors react to casa grande christmas tragedy mon dec 30 , 2013 10 : 07 pm est 35 minutes ago mon dec 30 , 2013 10 : 07 pm est new year ’ s day volunteer opportunity for animal lovers mon dec 30 , 2013 4 : 07 pm est terry goddard plans to run for secretary of state mon dec 30 , 2013 10 : 07 pm est ’ beyond ’ tucson event at sabino canyon mon dec 30 , 2013 8 : 07 pm est ex-chief won ’ t be charged in fatal shooting thu dec 5 , 2013 04 : 07 am est sex offender has new address in area thu dec 5 , 2013 04 : 07 am est bp agents find 155 pounds of pot thu dec 5 , 2013 04 : 07 am est nhc tenants defy landlord 's order to vacate keko juu area na james kandoya mlaki , who is a widow , said she was left with her children after her husband retired and she had no other alternative than to adhere to nhc ’ s decision. epublished by pressmart [ digital magazine publishing ] korea , south news headlines editorial opinions or comments expressed in this newspaper reflect the views of the writer and are not those of the interrobang or the fanshawe student 5 / .
giving money to beggers you may regret it if you open your wallet and they see whats inside .
again a king thai lady made this listake on the rangit overhead walkway one day and she lost her life .
11 / .
even good talking foreigners can scam .
watch the backpacker sometimes on the overbridge to panthip plaza whose down and out and lost his passport wanting money or just got ripped off by the girlfriend and wants to borrow some baht off you ? 14 / .
if you find your ccs are used do not use again but report stolen ? you may get a bill but if you haven 't used it then the company may waiver it .
15 / .
never buy property unless you see it eg. condos finished ? ? some foreigners ply on unsuspecting foreigners .
as at 2012 the touts are not around the doors anymore at the airport and its a lot harder to be approached by touts but all the same watch ones who loiter around escalators or the main doors offering you cheap taxi rides etc .
always use the meter taxi outside the bottom ground floor with a chit or bell bus service to pattaya or the train to bangkok . ]
[ airport scams & thefts ] [ suvarnabumi airport ] the enthronement of the sacred heart is an external recognition of the loving kingship of the heart of jesus in the parish and in the christian home .
the parish and family show this recognition by giving the image of the sacred heart a place of honor and dedicating themselves to him by an act of consecration .
so the parish and family will be in a special way under the patronage and protection of the divine heart .
the enthronement creates an intimate relationship between the church and the home . parishioners are encouraged to enthrone an image in their own home in imitation of the image in the parish . the result is a greater love for christ in the parish , especially in the eucharist . it also creates a close relationship between priests and families .
the enthronement is therefore a powerful aid to the pastor to draw people more actively into parish life .
you can acquire an image or statue from any number of stores . here are a few options to help you : liverpool fc : 2013 in review — best player , y ... this is anfieldgerrard and sturridge close to comebacks as rodgers eyes reinforcementsliverpool echoin depth : chelsea fc make liverpool fc suffer , arsenal fc topfinancial expresssee all 1,281 sourcesrelated chelsea f.c. if you find our content useful you can help us out by recommending the site to your friends and / or by liking our page on facebook .
diriba kuma , the mayor of addis ababa , is closely shadowed by his deputy abate sitotaw . ( ... )
the widow of the late prime minister meles zenawi feels increasingly sidelined in ethiopia ’ s ruling coalition and is mulling a move to the united states . ( ... )
analytics cookies.we and our service providers may use analytics cookies , which are sometimes called performance cookies , to collect information about your use of the site and enable us to improve the way it works . analytics cookies collect information about how you use the site , for instance , which pages you go to most .
the information allows us to see the overall patterns of usage on the site , help us record any difficulties you have with the site and show us whether our advertising is effective or not .
3 .
how do third parties use cookies on the site ?
please note that by disabling or blocking any or all cookies , some features of the site may not operate as intended , or you may not have access to features or personalization available through the site .
analytics cookies can also be managed via the following links he said that the deceased was a tourist who was staying at the hotel and at around 13 : 00 hours on tuesday he went to the swimming pool .
he said the body of the deceased is preserved at muhimbili national hospital for further investigations .
according to the rpc investigations into the circumstances that lead to the death of the student is in progress .
the body of sheki is preserved at the mwananyamala hospital .
he said that manyama is alleged to have shot shoni after a misunderstanding between the two at madale at around 22.45 hours on tuesday .
he said shoni has been admitted at the muhimbili national hospital ( mnh ) for treatment .
arusha rpc liberatus sabas , and mwanza rpc valentino mlowela told the guardian that the situation in their regions was normal .
masaki said the child was killed by a car as he rode on a bicycle on a road in mbalizi district .
he was speaking at kibaoni village at mlele district in katavi region shortly after the company and the chinese ambassador to tanzania lu youqing had presented tanzanian prime minister mizengo pinda with 44 motorcycles .
how deep cuts in government spending are transforming europe as it grapples with debt.portugal tries to transformin greece , austerity kindles deep discontenteuropean social benefits are untouchable no more looking back at the major developments of the last six months of the u.s.s.r. how a decade at war is changing the u.s. military .
the mental wounds of wardrone operators climb on winds of changeworking with the insurgents it is sad to buy and eat these vegetables that come from suffering .
i was on welfare for the first 17 years of my life , and i & # 8217 ; ve been vegan for the past 4 years .
i pay for university with the help of osap , scholarships , and bursaries .
the idea that veganism has to be expensive is a myth. it seems to me you are implying that veganism is more sustainable than a mixed diet , which is simply wrong. veganism is more sustainable than an unsustainable mixed diet ; however , it is just as sustinable as a sustainable mixed diet. see the difference ?
veganism is not the only option here .
so is it clear that veganism is & # 8216 ; one of many sustainable approaches & # 8217 ; ?
so i don & # 8217 ; t get what you & # 8217 ; re trying to say & # 8211 ; because vegans are a sustainable and & # 8216 ; moral & # 8217 ; niche of society , we should make it necessary to include concessions and special tolerations of veganism in on-campus restaurants .
when your opposition agrees that your position is the best but argues that the world is the way it is and will never change , you kind of get the feeling you are arguing for the right position , you know ?
nashville gas prices on the rise mon dec 30 , 2013 1 : 26 pm est nashville ’ s dsi expands to atlanta mon dec 30 , 2013 1 : 26 pm est when a nickname fits , it follows to the grave mon dec 30 , 2013 03 : 26 am est year will wrap up with a just flurry or two mon dec 30 , 2013 03 : 26 am est new births abound at nashville zoo mon dec 30 , 2013 03 : 26 am est solar tables installed at apsu sun dec 22 , 2013 05 : 26 am est robber holds up sonic on murfreesboro road mon dec 30 , 2013 1 : 26 pm est boutique store raided by shoplifter mon dec 30 , 2013 09 : 26 am est police : man found with molotov cocktails prepped for doomsday mon dec 30 , 2013 7 : 26 pm est munchak ’ s challenge now staying as titans coach mon dec 30 , 2013 5 : 26 pm est plus check out more of iheartradio 's5 things you need to knowbelow and to the right ! ---------- > bishop to ordain 12 men to permanent diaconate may 16 in st. john cathedral a look back at 2008 in the diocese of paterson a glance at the past : mirror mirror on the wall , which is the oldest of them all ?
breaking the cycle of poverty in haiti one child at a time too many in n.j. go to bed hungry every night a rabbi ' s praise for pope ' s pilgrimage to israel youths arrested after robbing man of headphones catonsville crime log fri dec 27 , 2013 2 : 15 pm est christmas day break-in attempt in arbutus fails crime log fri dec 27 , 2013 2 : 15 pm est body found in water at fells point sat dec 28 , 2013 12 : 15 pm est and to provide a place for them to serve , to expertmathstutor how to use trigonometry to find the length of a side using sin , cos and tan with right angled triangles .
want to learn the basics of trigonometry ?
want to learn how to use the functions sine , cosine and tangent ?
or do you just want to review the basics to study ...
chorus : brother 's analyzing itother 's strategizing it416 or 905 who got the liver shitholocaust and homicidal shit rap scholaroff the walla , content heart mic brawlabrother 's analyzing itother 's strategizing it416 or 905 who got the liver shitholocaust and homicidal shit rap scholaroff the walla , content heart mic brawlaverse 1 : peep the chemistry you niggaz couldn 't fuck wit my legacyfull court furry reign and microphone supremacyfirst time my father breathedsuper star scholar seed apollo creed notes 'll make a brawler bleedrhyme record the microphone 's a deadly murder weaponlike albe shore 's eyebrows shots be connectingyou ain 't shit to medon 't ever think of dissin ' wit your sinistrymy ministry your wizardry writin ' in calligraphygothic my facial feature 's like a prophetyou can 't stop it i 'm taking money out your pocketsi got crazy stamina far from an amateuri 'm representin canadafuck you and your manageri write smarter i strike harderbrother 's duck and cover upsorta like clinton wit whitewatertoronto golden child you know the dialmy flow is wild hitting balboa style and never go to trialthe illa vet on the slicker setwit the bigger threati make a nigga flexfuck his bitch at the cineplexthe rap champion from brampton to the hamptonsi keep the party ampinwit the mic temper tantrums ( chorus ) verse 2 : you pugilist or ludicristyou either new to dis or taking buddah hitsi got the brain of 2 computer chips ( ? ) melly mel and demyou 'll never win , old school adrenalineverbal arsonist , larcenist slash narcissistrap styles nasty like a prostitute on jarvisistson i got the flyer brainrhymes so raw , i 'm the brother who inspired kaneflow onto a higher plainthe beat maker , idol maker title takerthe fly flavor vocabulary skyscraperscam got the phater trackstough like a battle capprops like word baccarathalifax and hacky sacksmaestro 's flavor 's tighti 'm gonna reign tonighteven kanenites loves the way i flame the micget the realist props at the meanest spotsyour girls on my jock you get tequila shotsevery time a needle dropsi be the rap savior from asia to malaysiathe 3 black kids from yellowknife know i 'm mega strifekeep your eye on this rap scientistbitch niggaz still trying to do what i done in 89 and shit ( chorus ) verse 3 : yo my dialogue brings attentionsorta like the shawshank redemptioni start adversaries wit the lyrics that i mentioni put a pro to shame niggaz know my namebrother bow when they see me as if jahova camei got the betta shit forever slickpeep the predicatesbruce banner grammar spray gamma raydon 't make my sweater ripi put a hoe in cheakthe microphone 'll wreckit 's like a dime wit ' no effectevery time i blow connectfuck the calvelry i 'm rolling wit the royal familyfrom galilee to bramely it 's all about a salaryi eat you like a can o ' spami kick the framelan i slam a mani ring more bells than alexander grahamverbal masicist who could flow as fast as thissurpassing this fuck around your ass is hist 'it 's a mysteryi be the first platinum act in historyi read the source articlethanx for missing me ( chorus ) dean park , dean parkmy nigga dimemy nigga moses the three zeros of hiv response are in terms of now new infections , no discrimination and no aids related deaths . & ldquo ; i don ’ t have any alternative because i can ’ t remove waste .
if the problem continues , we will go to responsible authorities to ask for explanations , & rdquo ; he elaborated .
les forces de sécurité ont tué par balles au moins 70 partisans du président déchu mohamed morsi , tôt samedi , affirme la confrérie des frères musulmans .
son porte-parole , gehad el-haddad , a déclaré que la police avait ouvert le feu peu avant la prière matinale , non loin de la mosquée de rabba al-adawiya , où les partisans de mohamed morsi organisaient un sit-in permanent depuis la reprise en main du pays par l 'armée il y a plus de trois semaine .
" ils ne tirent pas pour blesser mais pour tuer " , soutient-il .
la télévision qatarie , al-jazeera , donne un bilan de 120 morts et d 'environ 4 les partisans et opposants de morsi , incarcéré depuis le coup d 'etat , avaient le chef d 'état-major , le général abdel fattah al-sisi , qui a joué un rôle déterminant dans le coup qui a chassé du pouvoir mohamed morsi , devenu très impopulaire , avait lancé un appel aux egyptiens à descendre dans la rue afin de lui donner un mandat " pour lutter contre les violences et le terrorisme . "
le ministre de la défense et vice-premier ministre dans le nouveau gouvernement a été entendu puisque plusieurs centaines de milliers d 'egyptiens vendredi le ministre de l 'intérieur , mohamed ibrahim , avait déclaré qu 'il serait bientôt mis fin légalement au sit-in des pro-morsi autour de la mosquée les occidentaux sont de plus en plus inquiets par la tournure des événements jeudi il a été annoncé que morsi devra répondre de charges de complot avec un groupe étranger , en l 'occurence le hamas , qui aurait participé à l 'attaque d 'une prison où il était incarcéré au début du soulèvement populaire contre le plusieurs détenus et gardiens avaient été tués et des soldats enlevés .
but with the casual , day to day talking , i am not so good .
i tend to rub people the wrong way ( you 've all seen sheldon on big bang theory , so you 've seen a clownish impersonation of asperger 's , and you can see how i 'd be abrasive ... if you haven 't seen big bang theory then blessings be to you , you 're doing good work . )
if you 've made it this far and are still reading , you probably do not have add and you 're thinking to yourself " when is this guy going to get to the point ? "
now , i will get to it now .
okay not right now , the next paragraph .
i live in america .
so i don 't get to go to a doctor at all , and i can 't find a good one to give me the diagnosis the last shrink held off on writing down simply to fill his schedule and his pockets .
i spent six fun months squatting in an abandoned house .
i 'm 28 years old and i was unable to date until i was 26 .
if not for my girlfriend i 'd be homeless now .
i can 't own a car and i 've got a mountain of debt for medical and student loans .
my credit is so bad i can 't even get a cell phone contract .
agenția pentru cercetare avansată în domeniul apărării ( darpa ) a încheiat recent un acord cu departamentul apărării din australia în privinţa instalării pe teritoriul australian a unui telescop radar destinat supravegherii spaţiale , se precizează într-un comunicat al agenţiei americane .
space surveillance telescope ( sst ) va fi dotat cu un sistem de trei lentile mersenne-schmidt ( care ...
google , apple şi microsoft se luptă pentru supremaţie .
în vreme ce android a cucerit o puternică bază mobilă , microsoft şi apple , sisteme „ închise ” , mizează pe universul produselor conexe şi a variantelor desktop .
luna martie a fost foarte încărcată în lumea internetului aducându-ne lansările celor mai performante browsere oferite de giganţii din industrie : microsoft , google şi mozilla .
microsoft a cheltuit milioane de dolari sprijinind diverși politicieni in anii precedenți și se pare că intenționeză să recupereze măcar o parte din acești bani înapoi prin vânzarea unui nou pachet de servicii si unelte software destinate campaniilor politice și grupurilor de activiști .
această nouă ofertă poartă denumirea ” campaingready ” si are la bază o platformă interactivă ...
wolfram alpha ( www.wolframalpha.com ) este un nou tip de motor de căutare , cu care stephen wolfram , un fizician britanic , îşi propune să dea răspunsuri exacte , la obiect , asemenea celor date de un om şi speră să atragă atenţia gigantului google .
microsoft lansează noul său motor de căutare bing.com , ce va fi disponibil tuturor începând cu 3 iunie .
şi în românia , mediapro testează ...
protestele de la chişinău au făcut înconjurul lumii .
cnn a prezentat pe pagina electronică un sumar al evenimentelor de marţi , 7 aprilie 2009 , din republica moldova .
jurnaliştii cnn au remarcat importanţa pe care internetul şi reţelele de socializare au avut-o în organizarea protestelor .
evenimentele din chişinău au fost puse la cale pe twitter sau facebook , lucru observat şi de „ new ...
lansarea windows 7 beta , anunţată cu surle şi trâmbiţe la târgul ces din las vegas , a fost amânată cu 24 de ore , din cauză că serverele au cedat , iar compania a încercat să le suplimenteze cât de repede a putut . compania a fost aspru criticată chiar şi pe blogul oficial al windows de utilizatorii dezamăgiţi că nu au putut testa noul sistem la termenul anunţat .
abilitatea microsoft de a combate pirateria online i-a înfuriat pe utilizatorii de internet chinezi .
noua versiune a programului anti-piratare windows genuine advantage face ca background-ul de pe monitor să se înnegrească la fiecare oră dacă software-ul instalat nu trece un test de validare .
utilizatorii chinezi de internet susţin că microsoft ar trebui să îi urmărească pe producătorii ...
idc : serviciile locale it au crescut cu 48,7 % în 2007 piaţa românească a serviciilor it a avut în 2007 o valoare de 363,14 milioane de dolari , în creştere cu 48,7 % faţă de anul anterior , potrivit unui studiu al companiei de analiză idc , citat în raportul lunar asupra pieţei tehnologiei informaţiei publicat de newsin .
“ piaţa românească a serviciilor it a crescut în 2007 cu 48,7 % , calculată în dolari americani , până la aproape 363,14 ... iphone 3g a fost lansat şi în românia pe 22 august şi au fost înregistrate 6000 de precomenzi , iar 100 de telefoane au fost cumpărate la momentul lansării în bucureşti , potrivit informaţiilor oferite de reprezentanţii orange românia .
în aceeaşi zi , vodafone romania punea la dispoziţia clienţilor săi o ofertă unică ce include noul model htc touch diamond la preţuri speciale şi ... © 2013 cadran politic · rss · designed by theme junkie · powered by wordpress this is kent | profile for sevenoaks chronicle | sevenoaks chronicle chronicle suma jkt procures 278 tractors to meet farmers ' demand na prosper makene suma jkt is urging the tanzania revenue authority ( tra ) and the dar es salaam port authority to at least speed up the clearing of the 278 units so that farmers can obtain the tractors before the start of the agricultural season .
he noted that the army ’ s wing is planning to open up mechanisation centres countrywide so as to enable farmers to obtain spare parts in case of breakdowns of the machines .
she noted that china has started assisting tanzania by transferring technology , as in the establishment of the mechanisation centre at dakawa in morogoro region , where farmers and extension officers will be trained and equipped with skills on the effective use of irrigation and fertilisers on crops .
the technology has the ability to produce at least six tonnes per ha , according to ndaba .
the row over oil drilling off the coast of the falkland islands has taken another twist , with the uk ambassador to argentina accusing its government of trying to " intimidate " the islands ' residents . ( 12 / 18 / 2013 11 : 50 : 59 am ) mwenyekiti wa jukwaa la katiba , deus kibamba , ametahadharisha kuwa hawatakubaliana na mpango unaosukwa wa kutaka bunge maalum lisionyeshwe moja kwa moja .
kauli hiyo aliitoa jana mjini hapa katika mkutano wa kuchagua wawakilishi wa asasi zisizo za kiserikali ili majina yao yapelekwe kwa rais kwa ajili ya kuyateua kushiriki kwenye bunge maalum la katiba linalotarajia kufanyika februari mwakani .
habari kamili rais jakaya kikwete amesema hatua inayofuata baada ya kukamilika kwa rasimu ya katiba ni maamuzi ya wananchi na bunge la katiba ambayo yataifanya ipitishwe na kuwa katiba kamili .
kadhalika , rais kikwete alisema katika maamuzi hayo , viongozi wa kijamii na siasa wana nafasi kubwa ya kuhakikisha mchakato wa katiba mpya unafanikiwa kwa kukwepa maslahi ya vyama vyao na makundi wanayotokea na kinyume chake katiba ya sasa itaendele kutumika .
majina ya makundi mbalimbali yaliyoomba kuteuliwa na rais kuwa wajumbe wa bunge maalum la katiba , yameanza kumiminika katika ofisi za ikulu .
akizungumza jana na nipashe jumapili , katibu mkuu kiongozi , balozi ombeni sefue , alisema kuwa baadhi ya majina hayo yalianza kupokelewa kabla ya tangazo la serikali namba 443 lililochapishwa kwenye gazeti lake desemba 13 , mwaka huu .
ijumaa iliyopita , ofisi ya rais ilitoa taarifa ikizitaka asasi kuwasilisha majina ya wajumbe ambao zitawateua kuingia katika bunge maalum la katiba ambalo litakutaja mapema mwakani kwa ajili ya kupitisha katiba mpya .
jukwaa la katiba tanzania ( jukata ) limesema litaongoza mkutano wa kuchagua majina ya watu 20 kutoka katika taasisi zisizo za kiserikali katika makundi yaliyoainishwa kisheria , yatakayopelekwa kwa rais ili ateue kuwa wajumbe wa bunge maalumu la katiba .
taarifa ya kamati ya bunge ya ardhi , maliasili na mazingira kuhusu tathmini ya matatizo yaliyotokana na operesheni tokomeza , imefichua unyama , mateso , mauaji ya binadamu na mifugo na imesema viongozi wa kisiasa na serikali waliingilia utekelezaji wake .
mzimu wa milipuko ya mabomu yaliyotokea kwa nyakati tofauti kanisa katoliki la mtakatifu joseph mfanyakazi parokia ya olasiti na mkutano wa chadema viwanja vya soweto jijini arusha , umemuibua mkazi wa nzega kutinga bungeni akilalamikia kuteswa na kubambikiwa kesi ya kuhusika na matukio hayo .
hatimaye mbunge wa viti maalum , maryam salum msabaha ( chadema ) , amelazimika kufuta kauli yake bungeni na kuomba radhi kufuatia kauli yake kwamba kila mbunge ana mpenzi wake bungeni humo na mambo mengi yanayotendeka na hawayazungumzi .
kashfa ya baadhi ya wabunge kukatisha safari za kikazi nje ya nchi baada ya kuchukua fedha za safari na posho limewatia aibu na kutikisha bunge jana asubuhi huku bunge likisema suala hilo limefikishwa ngazi ya utawala na kuwataka waliochukua posho hizo kuzirudisha .
kamati ya bunge ya nishati na madini , imesema ongezeko la wizi wa mafuta unaohusisha utoboaji wa mabomba unaweza kusababisha mlipuko wa moto au uvujaji wa mafuta kwenye eneo la bandari jijini dar es salaam .
kamati ya bunge ya uchumi , viwanda na biashara , imeitaka serikali kuwaandaa watanzania na miundombinu itakayowawezesha kumiliki uchumi wa gesi .
akiwasilisha bungeni taarifa ya kamati hiyo kwa kipindi cha machi hadi desemba 15 , mwaka huu , mwenyekiti wa kamati hiyo , mahmoud mgimwa , alisema maandalizi ya uchumi wa gesi yanatakiwa kuwa makubwa .
kamati ya bunge ya ulinzi na usalama , imependekeza serikali iendeleze operesheni tokomeza ujangili na operesheni kimbunga ambazo zimesitishwa kwa muda .
akisoma kwa niaba ya mwenyekiti wa kamati hiyo , anna abdallah , mbunge wa namtumbo , vita kawawa ( ccm ) , alisema , operesheni hizo zililenga kutokomeza wahalifu na uhalifu nchini .
mbunge wa arusha mjini , godbless lema ( chadema ) , amemlipua bungeni naibu waziri wa ardhi , nyumba na maendeleo ya makazi , goodluck ole medeye kwa kumweleza kuwa sio mzigo tu , bali ni bomu hasa .
mbunge wa kigoma kaskazini , kabwe zitto ( chadema ) , amesema anatarajia kuwasilisha maelezo binafsi kuhusu , kauli ya mwanasheria mkuu , frederick werema , aliyoitoa juzi bungeni dhidi yake ya kumuita muongo kuhusu mabilioni uswis .
waziri mkuu , mizengo pinda , amesema atafurahi na kupumua kuutua wadhifa aliokuwa nao iwapo rais ataamua kufanya hivyo kama ataona hajaridhika na utendaji wake au iwapo wabunge kwa ujumla wao watamweka kitimoto ili kumwondoa .
naibu spika wa bunge , job ndugai amesema mgogoro wakulima na wafugaji katika wilaya ya kiteto mkoani manyara unachangiwa na viongozi wa serikali kutokana na ubaguzi .
ndugai ambaye pia ni mbunge wa kongwa ( ccm ) , alisema viongozi hao wamekuwa wakichochea mgogoro kutokana na kuchukua rushwa ya ng ’ ombe kwenye kila boma la mfugaji kwa ajili ya kuwafukuza wakulima katika maeneo yao wanayolima .
waziri wa nchi , ofisi ya waziri mkuu ( sera , uratibu na bunge ) , william lukuvi , amesema sheria mpya dhidi ya dawa za kulevya ambayo serikali inatarajia kuifikisha bungeni mwakani , itahamasisha watumiaji / wafanyabiashara wadogo wa dawa za kulevya kuwataja wafanyabiashara wakubwa wa dawa hizo .
mbunge wa ngara , deogratias ntukamazina ( ccm ) , ametahadharisha dhidi ya vitendo vya kutoa ajira kwa ubaguzi wa kidini na ukabila ambavyo kwa sasa vimeanza kushamiri .
akichangia taarifa ya kamati ya bunge ya katiba , sheria na utawala bungeni jana , alisema sekretariati ya ajira ifuate sifa na siyo udini na ukabila katika uajiri .
mbunge wa mbozi magharibi , david silinde , ( chadema ) , amembana naibu spika job ndugai , kutoa ufafanuzi wa kauli kuwa atafungulia mbwa upande wa pili ili nao wajibu au kutoa lugha ya maudhi kama ambavyo mbunge wa viti maalum , pauline gaekul ( chadema ) alivyofanya wakati akichangia bungeni .
wabunge wameendelea kuwang ’ ang ’ ania kooni waziri mkuu mizengo pinda , waziri wa nchi , ofisi ya waziri mkuu , ( tamisemi ) , hawa ghasia wakiwataka wasisubiri kutimuliwa bali wapumzike nyadhifa zao kistaarabu kwa kushindwa kuwajibika .
mbunge wa ubungo , john mnyika ( chadema ) , amewasilisha hoja binafsi kwa katibu wa bunge , dk .
thomas kashililah , kuhusu kuporomoka kwa viwango vya ufaulu nchini akitaka waziri wa elimu na mafunzo ya ufundi , dk .
spika wa bunge la afrika kusini , max sisulu , amesema njia pekee ya kumkumbuka hayati nelson mandela ni kuhakikisha kuwa watu masikini wanapewa matunzo kwa kipaumbele cha kwanza akizungumza katika kikao cha bunge jana , sisulu , alisema wafanyakazi na wabunge wanatakiwa kuenzi mambo mema aliyoyaacha mandela kwa kuwaenzi watu masikini & ldquo ; nadhani shughuli hii ni ya umuhimu kwa sababu bunge na wafanyakazi wa bunge tumkumbuke madiba , kwa macho yetu na machozi yetu tumkumbuke kwa mazuri aliyoyafanya kwa nchi yetu na tupo hapa kwa kusema kuwa hatutayasahau , & rdquo ; alisema sisulu .
mwenyekiti wa kamati ya bunge ya bajeti , andrew chenge , ameonya kuhusu tatizo la kuongezeka kwa kasi kwa matumizi ya kawaida ya serikali haliambayo inaathiri ugharimiaji wa utekelezaji wa miradi ya maendeleo .
bunge la jamhuri ya muungano wa tanzania , limetoa azimio la kuungana na afrika kusini katika kuomboleza kifo cha mwasisi , mpinga ubaguzi wa rangi na kumkumbuka , marehemu nelson madiba mandela ( 95 ) .
hoja ya tume ya uchaguzi zanzibar ( zec ) kuwataka wapiga kura wawe na vitambulisho vya ukaazi , imewapasua vichwa baadhi ya wabunge huku wale upinzani wakitaka sheria hiyo isitumike kwenye zoezi la kupiga kura ya maoni ya katiba mpya , wakati wabunge wa ccm wengi wao wakitaka itumike .
muswada wa sheria ya kura ya maoni wa mwaka 2013 uliowasilishwa bungeni mjini hapa jana , ulianza kwa mjadala mkali miongoni mwa wabunge .
muswada huo uliwasilishwa bungeni kwa mara pili huyku serikali ikisisitiza kuwa kila mwananchi atakayekuwa amejiandikisha katika daftari la kudumu la wapiga kura la tume ya taifa ya uchaguzi ( nec ) na tume ya uchaguzi zanzibar ( zec ) , ataruhusiwa kupiga kura ya maoni .
viongozi wa nchi za afrika wameshutumiwa kwa kushindwa kutekeleza mikataba mbalimbali wanayoisaini na kuiridhia chini ya umoja wao wa afrika ( au ) .
mwenyekiti wa wabunge wa tanzania waliopo katika bunge la afrika , bernadeta mushashu , alisema kuwa leo wabunge wa bunge la afrika kanda ya mashariki watakutana jijini dar es salaam kwa ajili ya kuweka mkazo na kuhakikisha nchi wanachama zinaridhia na kutekeleza mkataba wa afrika kuhusu demokrasia , uchaguzi na utawala bora .
msajili hana ' ubavu ' wa kufuta usajili wa vyama vilivyoshindwa uchaguzi serikali imesema hakuna sheria inayotoa mamlaka kwa msajili wa vyama vya siasa nchini kuvifutia usajili vyama ambavyo havijashiriki au kushindwa katika uchaguzi mbalimbali wa kisiasa .
jumla ya sh. bilioni 184.5 zimetengwa kwa ajili ya kupeleka maji katika halmashauri ya shinyanga katika mwaka wa fedha wa 2013 / 14 .
naibu waziri wa maji , dk .
binilith mahenge , aliliambia bunge jana kuwa fedha hizo ni kwa ajili ya kutekeleza miradi ya maji vijijini .
chama cha demokrasia na maendeleo ( chadema ) kimesema kitatumia fursa ya mkutano wa 14 wa bunge unaoanza kesho , kushinikiza mawaziri waliotuhumiwa na chama cha mapinduzi ( ccm ) kushindwa kutimiza wajibu wao wa kuwatumikia watanzania , wawajibishwe na rais jakaya kikwete , kwa kuwa ni ’ mizigo ’ kwa serikali .
mishahara na marupuru ya wabunge kwa nchi masikini kusini mwa jangwa la sahara , tanzania ikiwamo imeelezwa kuwa ni mzigo kwa wananchi wanaowaongoza , utafiti umebaini .
kutokana na hali hiyo , utafiti huo umependekeza kuwa nchi hizo ziunde taasisi huru ya kupanga mishahara na marupurupu ya wabunge , mawaziri , rais na watumishi wengine wa kada ya juu kwenye utumishi wa umma , ili kudhibiti gharama hizo .
mahakama kuu divisheni ya ardhi imeahirisha kusikiliza pingamizi la kesi ya kubomoa nyumba ya mbunge wa viti maalum ( ccm ) , mchungaji dk .
getrude rwakatare , dhidi ya baraza la taifa la hifadhi na usimamizi wa mazingira ( nemc ) hadi desemba 10 , mwaka huu .
sakata la tuhuma zinazomkabili mbunge wa bahi , omary badwel ( ccm ) la kutafuna fedha za mfuko wa jimbo limeingia katika sura mpya baada ya kudaiwa kurejesha fedha alizokusanya kwa wananchi katika mradi wa majembe ya kukokotwa na ng ’ ombe huku baadhi ya madiwani wameshangazwa na kitendo hicho .
viongozi waandamizi tisa wa umma wakiwamo wabunge watatu , wameingia matatani baada ya kutakiwa kufika katika baraza la maadili la viongozi wa umma kujibu mashtaka mbalimbali wakituhumiwa kukiuka maadili ya uongozi .
kenya imejitenga na maswaiba wake wa hivi karibuni katika jumuiya ya afrika mashariki , uganda na rwanda kwa kuunga mkono msimamo uliotolewa wiki iliyopita na rais jakaya kikwete juu ya uvunjaji wa mkataba wa jumuiya hiyo .
uamuzi wa bunge wa kukataa mapendekezo ya serikali ya kuongezea makali sheria ya mgazeti namba tatu ya mwaka 1976 ambayo inajulikana kuwa ni kandamizi dhidi ya uhuru wa habari nchini , huku ikiungwa mkono na wabunge wachache imethibisha kuwa bado kuna wanasiasa maadui wa uhuru wa habari nchini .
bunge limepitisha muswada wa sheria ya mabadiliko ya katiba wa mwaka 2013 , huku serikali ikiahidi kuwa wengi watakaoteuliwa na rais kuwa wajumbe wa bunge maalumu la katiba kutoka asasi za kiraia na kidini , watakuwa ni wanawake .
wakati bunge likiiagiza serikali kuleta muswada mzima wa sheria ya vyombo vya habari ujadiliwe na kupitishwa na bunge hilo , limepinga adhabu ya faini ya makosa ya kuchapisha habari ya uchochezi ya sh .
wabunge jana waliandika historia mpya baada ya kuweka tofauti zao pembeni na kuunga mkono kwa kauli moja mapendekezo ya muswada wa marekebisho ya sheria ya mabadiliko ya katiba wa mwaka 2013 , ambayo pamoja na mengine , yameongeza idadi ya wajumbe wa bunge maalumu la katiba kutoka 166 hadi 201 kutoka nje ya wabunge na wawakilishi .
rais jakaya kikwete amewapa vidonge marais wa kenya , uganda na rwanda , kwa kufanya mambo yanayoigawa jumuiya ya afrika mashariki ( eac ) na kueleza kuwa msimamo wa tanzania ndio uliopelekea kutengwa na viongozi hao .
hasira ya wabunge wa chama cha mapinduzi ( ccm ) ambayo ilikuwa ikichemka kiasi cha kuanza kuzusha hofu kuwa wangesusa kujadili marekebisho ya sheria ya marekebisho ya sheia ya mbadiliko ya katiba , imeyeyuka baada ya mkutano kati yao na rais jakaya kikwete uliodumu kwa zaidi ya sa tatu juzi mjini dosoma .
serikali imesema iko kwenye mchakato wa kuzifanyia marekebisho sheria ya haki na kinga ya wabunge , vyama vya siasa na ile ya vyama vya kiraia .
mwanasheria mkuu wa serikali ( ag ) , jaji frederick werema , alisema hayo jana wakati akijibu hoja za wabunge waliochangia muswada wa sheria ya marekebisho ya sheria mbalimbali , uliowasilishwa naye , bungeni juzi .
kambi rasmi ya upinzani bungeni imepinga marekebisho ya sheria ya magazeti namba tatu ya mwaka 1976 yaliyowasilishwa bungeni , ikisema hayana msingi kwa kuwa hakuna ushahidi unaoonyesha adhabu zilizoko katika baadhi ya vifungu vyake vilivyopendekezwa na serikali kuongezwa , kama vimeshindwa kudhibiti makosa ya uchochezi .
serikali imeendelea kuteswa na uamuzi wake wa utata kufuta daraja la sifuri katika matokeo ya kidato cha pili na baadaye kutangaza kulirejesha kufuatia malalamiko ya wadau .
suala hilo liliibuka bungeni jana baada ya mbunge wa kawe ( chadema ) , halima mdee , kumshukia naibu waziri wa elimu na mafunzo ya ufundi , philip mulugo , akihoji hatua anazopasa kuchukuliwa kwa mujibu wa kanuni za bunge kwa madai ya kutoa kauli za uongo na za kubahatishabahatisha bungeni .
wizara ya elimu na mafunzo ya ufundi imebatilisha uamuzi wake wa kubadili mfumo wa upangaji wa madaraja ya ufaulu kwa mitihani ya kidato cha nne kama ilivyotolewa awali kwa kurudisha daraja sifuri .
mbunge wa viti maalumu ( ccm ) , ester bulaya , amewasilisha bungeni maelezo binafsi akiitaka serikali pamoja na mambo mengine , kufanya mabadiliko ya sheria ya dawa za kulevya na kuanzisha mahakama maalumu ya kushughulikia wahalifu wa dawa hizo .
hatimaye bunge limepokea muswada wa sheria ya marekebisho ya sheria ya mabadiliko ya katiba wa mwaka 2013 kutoka serikalini , ambao unatarajiwa kuwasilishwa bungeni kwa hati ya dharura , katika mkutano wake wa 13 unaoendelea leo .
hatimaye utaratibu wa bunge wa kuwa na kanuni za kuwadhibiti wabunge kimaadili ’ umeiva ’ , ambao pamoja na mambo mengine , zinazuia mbunge yeyote kufanya fujo au kuzomea akiwa bungeni .
wabunge jana waliweka tofauti zao pembeni na kuungana ’ kuiwakia ’ serikali bungeni , wakitaka waziri mkuu , mizengo pinda na waziri wa maliasili na utalii , balozi khamis kagasheki wajiuzulu au wawajibishwe na rais .
wananchi kadhaa wamepinga vikali hatua ya wabunge ya kuitaka serikali inawaongezee maslahi ikiwamo mishahara kwa madai kuwa wanalipwa kiasi kidogo kulinganisha na wa nchi zingine .
wabunge hao walitoa madai hayo jumanne wiki hii wakati wa mkutano wao mjini dodoma .
mbunge wa bahi , omar baduwel , anatuhumiwa kutafuna fedha za mfuko wa jimbo zilizokuwa zikirejeshwa na wananchi baada ya kukopeshwamajembe ya kukokotwa na ng ’ ombe .
mbali na hilo pia mbunge huyo anadaiwa kutafuna fedha za mradi wa maji wa kijiji cha chibelela ambao serikali kupitia mfuko wa maendeleo ya jimbo ilitenga sh .
wabunge wamekuja juu wakilalamikia uduni wa maslahi wanayopata katika kazi zao za ubunge na hivyo kutaka yaboreshwe .
maslahi hayo ni pamoja na mishahara , posho na mengine yanayohusisha wasaidizi wa wabunge .
kashfa ya tuhuma dhidi ya baadhi ya wabunge na mawaziri kuhusika katika ujangili wa kuua tembo na kufanya biashara haramu ya meno yake , imetikisa bunge .
hali hiyo ilitokea jana bungeni , baada ya mbunge wa mwibara ( ccm ) , kangi lugola , kuhoji sababu za serikali kushikwa na kigugumizi na kukwepa kuwachukulia hatua watuhumiwa hao , hali inayozua wasiwasi juu ya uwezekano wa kuwapo hali ya kulindana .
baadhi ya wajumbe wa halmashauri kuu ya chama cha mapinduzi ( ccm ) wa wilaya ya kilombero mkoani morogoro , wamemlalamikia mbunge wa kilombero , abdallah mteketa , kwa madai ya kutoshiriki kikamilifu katika utekelezaji wa ilani ya chama hicho jimboni kwake .
mkutano wa 13 wa bunge unaanza leo mjini hapa , huku suala la katiba ya mpya ya tanzania ambayo mchakato wa mabadiliko yake unaendelea , likitarajia kuutawala na kuwagawa wabunge kwa mara nyingine .
mbunge wa sengerema , william ngeleja , amesema mazingira yasiyoridhisha katika shule nyingi za serikali , ni chanzo cha kushuka kwa elimu na matokeo mabaya kwa wanafunzi .
ngeleja aliyasema hayo mwishoni mwa wiki wakati wa mahafali ya kidato cha nne katika shule ya sekondari lilian kibo , iliyoko goba jijini dar es salaam .
wakati mkutano wa bunge maalum la katiba ukitarajia kuanza mwezi ujao , imedaiwa kuwa vyama vya upinzani vilishawahi kupendekeza kuwa wajumbe wa bunge hilo wachaguliwe kwa kupigiwa kura au wateuliwe ili kuondoa uwezekano wa katiba mpya kupitishwa na wajumbe wanaotoka chama tawala pekee .
watu 20 wa familia moja akiwamo ofisa mtendaji wa kata katika kitongoji cha igogo a kata ya nyampurukano wilayani sengerema , wamelazwa katika hospitali teule ya wilaya hiyo baada ya kula chakula kinachohofiwa kuwa na sumu .
spika wa bunge , anne makinda amesema mishahara ya wabunge wa tanzania siyo mikubwa kulinganisha na wanayolipwa wabunge wa mabunge mengine duniani .
alitoa kauli hiyo wakati akijibu maswali ya waandishi wa habari waliotaka ufafanuzi kuhusu kauli yake juu ya mpango wa bunge wa kuwaokoa wabunge dhidi ya hali mbaya ya maisha , ambayo huwakabili wanapokuwa wamestaafu ubunge .
kamati ya kudumu ya bunge ya hesabu za serikali za mitaa ( laac ) , itakutana na waziri mkuu , mizengo pinda na waziri wa tamisemi , hawa ghasia , kujadili ubadhilifu kwenye halmashauri 70 ambazo ni ’ mchwa ’ mla fedha za umma .
kamati ya kudumu ya bunge ya hesabu za serikali ( pac ) , imesema mamlaka ya majisafi na majitaka dar es salaam ( dawasa ) inajiendesha kwa hasara tangu ilipoanzishwa mwaka 1997 .
kaimu mwenyekiti wa kamati hiyo , ismail aden rage ( pichani ) , alibainisha hayo jana baada ya mahojiano ya watendaji wa mamlaka hiyo na kamati wamebaini inajiendesha kwa hasara .
maandalizi ya bunge maalumu la katiba yanazidi kupamba moto na sasa mafunzo kwa wabunge yameanza kutolewa jinsi ya kuichambua rasimu ya katiba ya jamhuri ya muungano wa tanzania ya mwaka 2013 katika bunge hilo linalotarajiwa kuanza mwezi ujao .
rais jakaya kikwete jana alikutana na viongozi wa vyama sita vya siasa vyenye uwakilishi bungeni , ikulu , jijini dar es salaam na kukubaliana mambo makuu mawili .
la kwanza , vyama vyote vya siasa vyenye mawazo , maoni na mapendekezo ya kuboresha muswada wa sheria ya marekebisho ya sheria ya mabadiliko ya katiba wa mwaka 2013 , kuyawasilisha haraka serikalini ili kutafuta namna ya kuyashirikisha katika marekebisho ya sheria hiyo .
kamati ya bunge ya hesabu za serikali ( pac ) , imeiagiza ofisi ya msajili wa vyama vya siasa nchini , kuzuia ruzuku ya kila mwezi kwa vyama baada ya kubainika kuwa kwa miaka minne mfululizo vimekuwa vikikwepa kukaguliwa mahesabu yao .
vyama 16 vya siasa vyenye usajili wa kudumu visivyokuwa na uwakilishi bungeni vimeomba kukutana na rais jakaya kikwete kwa ajili ya mazungumzo kuhusu mambo mbalimbali yanayohusu mchakato wa mabadiliko ya katiba ya nchi .
wabunge wamesema serikali imekuwa ikipoteza fedha za kigeni katika sekta ya utalii kutokana na watalii wengi wanaofika kulipia kiwango kidogo cha fedha , huku wakilipa fedha nyingi katika nchi wanazotoka kwa ajili ya kutembelea vivutio vya utalii nchini .
kamati ya kudumu ya bunge ya tawala za mikoa na serikali za mitaa ( tamisemi ) imemuagiza mkuu wa wilaya ya arusha , john mongella kumsaka mstahiki meya wa arusha , gaudence lyimo , ili apelekwe kwenye kamati hiyo kwa ajili ya kusuluhishwa mvutano wake na mkurugenzi wa jiji la arusha , sipora liana .
rais jakaya kikwete na wenyeviti wa vyama vya chadema , cuf na nccr-mageuzi , sasa watakutana kwa ajili ya mazungumzo kuhusu muswada wa sheria ya marekebisho ya sheria ya mabadiliko ya katiba ya mwaka 2013 , unaodaiwa na vyama hivyo kuwa una kasoro , ikulu , jumanne wiki ijayo .
mbunge wa dodoma mjini , david malolle ( ccm ) , ametangaza rasmi kujitoa kwenye ujumbe wa bodi ya mamlaka ya ustawishaji makao makuu ( cda ) na kuwataka wananchi kuandamana ili mamlaka hiyo ifutwe kwani imekuwa ikibomoa mji na si kuuboresha .
uhuru wa vyombo vya habari umezidi kutiwa kitanzini kufuatia serikali kupanga kuwasilisha katika bunge mwezi huu , muswada wa marekebisho ya sheria ya mbalimbali ya mwaka 2013 ikiwamo sheria ya magazeti ya mwaka 1976 ambayo sasa faini itaongezwa kwa chombo cha habari kinachofanya kosa kwa kiwango cha asilimia 3,233 .
bunge limesema limepokea taarifa rasmi iliyowasilishwa na mbunge wa kigoma kaskazini ( chadema ) , zitto kabwe , ya kukusudia kuwasilisha bungeni muswada binafsi wa marekebisho ya sheria ya magazeti ya mwaka 1976 , kwa lengo la kuifuta kabisa sheria hiyo .
licha ya jeshi la polisi kutumia nguvu kubwa ya kumsaka mbunge wa arusha mjini , godbless lema ( chadema ) kwa kumvamia nyumbani kwake usiku , kuizingira wakiwa wamejihami kwa silaha nzito na mabomu ya machozi kisha kumkamata na kumfunga pingu , baadaye kumfungulia mashitaka ya uchochezi , serikali imeamua kufuta mashitaka hayo .
mahakama ya hakimu mkazi wa sokoine drive , jijini dar es salaam , jana ilishindwa kutoa uamuzi dhidi ya kesi ya kuuza sukari iliyo haribika inayoikabili kampuni ya tanzania pharmaceutical industries limited ( tpi ) baada ya wakili wa utetezi , dennis msafiri , kushindwa kufika mahamani hapo kwa madai ya kuumwa .
mahakama kuu tanzania , kanda ya dar es salaam , imesema itatoa uamuzi desemba 12 , mwaka huu dhidi pingamizi zitakazowasilishwa na upande wa mlalamikiwa kwa njia ya maandishi dhidi ya katibu mkuu wa ccm , abdulrahman kinana .
tume ya mabadiliko ya katiba imelishangaa bunge kwa ’ undumila kuwili ’ wake wa kupitisha sheria mbili zinazokinzana kuhusiana na mchakato unaosimamiwa na tume hiyo .
mwenyekiti wake , jaji joseph warioba alitoa kauli hiyo jana jijini dar es salaam wakati akizungumza na waandishi wa habari , kwa lengo la kuwapa taarifa ya uendeshaji wa mabaraza ya katiba , ngazi ya serikali za mitaa ulivyofanyika .
wizara ya ardhi , nyumba na maendeleo ya makazi imesema kwa sasa haina fedha za kutekeleza agizo la kamati ya hesaba za serikali ( pac ) la kurudia upya zoezi la utoaji wa hati za ardhi , pamoja na kuziweka katika mfumo wa kielektroniki badala ya mfumo wa karatasi ( analojia ) .
waziri wa nchi ofisi ya rais ( mahusiano na uratibu ) , stephen wassira , amekoleza mjadala wa mchakato wa katiba mpya baada ya kuyataka makundi vikiwamo vyama vya upinzani kama vina hoja za msingi zitakazofanya usisainiwe muswada wa marekebisho ya mabadiliko ya katiba wampelekee rais .
tunaondoa wahamiaji haramu , siyo wakimbizi , kikwete aliambia bunge la marekani rais jakaya kikwete ameiambia kamati ya bunge la marekani kuwa tanzania haijafukuza mkimbizi hata mmoja kutoka nchini na wanaoondolewa ni wahamiaji haramu walioingia na kuishi nchini bila kufuata taratibu na sheria za uhamiaji .
mchakato wa kupata katiba mpya umeendelea kupingwa , baada ya wanaharakati kuungana na kutoa tamko la kutaka usiharakishwe huku na rais jakaya kikwete , kutousaini muswada wa sheria ya marekebisho ya mabadiliko ya katiba kutokana na kutokuwapo kwa uelewa mpana hususani maeneo ya ukinzani likiwamo suala la muungano .
vyama vya nccr-mageuzi , cuf na chadema , vimeungana kupinga mchakato wa katiba mpya kwa madai kuwa umehodhiwa na chama cha mapinduzi ( ccm ) na kutawaliwa na ubabe wa kanuni na sheria za bunge kwa kuunyima upande wa zanzibar haki ya kushiriki .
serikali imesema miongoni mwa wanaokwamisha vita dhidi ya ujangili ni wabunge kutokana na baadhi yao kujihusisha na biashara ya pembe za ndovu .
pamoja na kuwataja wabunge ambao ndiyo watunga sheria nchini , serikali imesema pia vita hiyo inashindwa kupata mafanikio kutokana na kuwa na mtandao mkubwa wa wafanyabiashara wakubwa na maofisa wa serikali kujihusisha na biashara hiyo .
mahakama ya rufani tanzania imeombwa kutupa rufaa ya kupinga hukumu ya mahakama kuu iliyothibitisha mbunge wa singida mashariki kupitia chama cha demokrasia na maendeleo ( chadema ) , tundu lissu , kuwa alishinda kihalali katika uchaguzi mkuu wa mwaka 2010 kwa madai kuwa mlalamikaji wa kwanza katika kesi hiyo , shaaban selema amehamia chama hicho .
upelelezi wa tuhuma zinazomkabili mbunge wa mbeya mjini , joseph mbilinyi maarufu kama sugu ( chadema ) , bado unaendelea .
sugu aliripoti kituo cha polisi mjini hapa majira ya asubuhi akiwa ameongozana na wakili wake , mbunge wa singida mashariki ( chadema ) , tundu lissu .
mhadhiri wa chuo kikukuu cha dar es salaam , profesa chris maina , amesema kuna hofu ya kuwa na katiba yenye mtazamo wa chama kimoja cha siasa kutokana na utaratibu uliowekwa wa wajumbe wanaotakiwa kushiriki kwenye bunge la maalumu la katiba .
mbunge wa arusha mjini , godbless lema ( chadema ) , amewataka waumini wa dini kujifunza wajibu wao wa kutoa sadaka nzuri na kuacha kupokea fedha chafu .
alisema hayo mwishoni mwa wiki akiwa mgeni rasmi wakati wa harambee ya kuchangia mfuko wa maendeleo wa parokia ya mtakatifu francis xaver , iliyopo olosipa eneo la sakina kwa iddi .
muswada wa marekebisho ya sheria ya mabadiliko ya katiba wa mwaka 2013 umezidi kuibua mapya , baada ya chama cha demokrasia na maendeleo ( chadema ) kudai kwamba , kikao cha bunge kilichofanya maamuzi ya kuupitisha hakikuwa halali .
wakati mbunge wa mbeya mjini ( chadema ) , joseph mbilinyi , maarufu kwa jina la sugu , akielezewa kujisalimisha polisi , huenda akakabiliwa na hatari ya kufikishwa mahakamani kwa makosa ya jinai .
muswada wa sheria wa mabadiliko ya sheria ya katiba wa mwaka 2013 , umepitishwa ' kiulani ’ na wabunge wa chama cha mapinduzi ( ccm ) huku wenzao wa upinzani wakisusia .
tofauti na ilivyotarajiwa na wengi kwamba muswada huo ungekwamishwa ama kupita kwa mbinde , lakini ulipitishwa jana kwa kufanyiwa mabadiliko madogo na wabunge wa ccm walioshiriki kikamilifu kuujadili kwa kuzungumza na wengine kwa maandishi .
muswada wa sheria ya marekebisho ya mabadiliko ya katiba wa mwaka 2013 umeligawa bunge , baada ya wabunge kutoka vyama vya chadema , nccr-mageuzi na cuf kususia mjadala wa muswada huo na kutoka nje ya ukumbi wa bunge na kuwaacha wabunge wa ccm na augustine mrema wa tlp .
baadhi ya washiriki wa mkutano wa 10 wa umoja wa kamati za bunge za hesabu za serikali kwa nchi za jumuiya ya maendeleo ya kusini mwa afrika ( sadcopac ) , wamevitaka vyama vilivyounda serikali zilizopo madarakani kuwapa uhuru wa majadiliano na usimamiaji wa hoja zenye maslahi ya umma ndani ya vikao vya bunge .
tanzania kwa mara ya kwanza katika historia ya bunge la afrika mashariki imefanikiwa kupata kikao rasmi katika ratiba ya vikao vya bunge hilo .
mwenyekiti wa wabunge watanzania katika bunge la afrika mashariki , adam kimbisa , alisema tanzania kama nchi pia imefanikiwa kupata kikao chake .
daftarila kudumu la wapigakura linapaswa kufanyiwa maboresho kila wakati ili kuwawezesha watanzania wanaofikisha umri wa miaka 18 waandikishwe , mmoja wa wajumbe wa mabaraza ya katiba amependekeza .
wabunge wamekishambulia vikali chama kilele ( apex ) , cha kusambaza pembejeo kwa wakulima nchini na kuitaka serikali kukifutilia mbali kutokana na sababu kadhaa ikiwamo ya kuwanyonya wakulima .
bunge limeishauri serikali kuweka utaratibu wa kuwabana wabadhirifu wa fedha za vyama vya ushirika na kama watathibitika kuhusika na kosa hilo , wafilisiwe mali zao zote pamoja na kufidia hasara iliyopatikana .
kambi ya upinzani bungeni imemshushia tuhuma nzito waziri wa maliasili na utalii , balozi khamis kagasheki ( pichani ) , ikiwamo ya kushinikiza mradi upewe msaada wa sh. milioni 10 kutoka mamlaka ya hifadhi ya ngorongoro ( ncaa ) kinyume cha taratibu .
kikao cha bunge kinatarajia kuendelea leo mjini hapa baada ya mapumziko ya mwishoni mwa wiki huku miswada miwili ya sheria kati ya sita iliyopangwa kuwasilishwa katika mkutano wa bunge wa 12 , kujadiliwa ikiondolewa .
baraza la kitaasisi la wanawake wanahabari , limesema katiba mpya iainishe suala la usawa katika nyanja zote za uongozi ikiwa ni pamoja na uongozi wa mihimili mikuu mitatu ya utawala yaani serikali , bunge na mahakama .
mvutano uliokuwapo kati ya wabunge wa rwanda , uganda na kenya kutaka vikao vya bunge la afrika ya mashariki ( eala ) vifanyike kwa mzunguko kwa nchi wanachama , huku tanzania wakipinga umemalizika kwa makubaliano kila nchi kifanyike kikao kimoja katika kalenda ya mwaka .
mbio za kugombea urais katika uchaguzi mkuu wa mwaka 2015 kupitia chama cha mapinduzi ( ccm ) zimeanza kuchukua sura mpya , baada ya baadhi ya vigogo kujitokeza hadharani kumpigia debe spika wa bunge , anne makinda .
kauli iliyotolewa juzi bungeni na waziri wa nchi , ofisi ya waziri mkuu ( sera , uratibu na bunge ) , william lukuvi , kuwa wabunge wengi ni miongoni mwa orodha ya majina ya wanaojihusisha na biashara ya dawa za kulevya , imeoonekana kuwachefua wabunge .
sakata la biashara ya dawa za kulevya sasa limechukua sura mpya baada ya jana waziri wa nchi , ofisi ya waziri mkuu ( sera , uratibu na bunge ) , william lukuvi , kulieleza bunge kuwa iwapo serikali itaamua kuwataja vigogo wa biashara hiyo nchini kama inavyopewa taarifa kutoka vyanzo mbalimbali , hakuna atakayepona kwani miongoni mwao wamo wabunge wengi .
wakati wananchi wakiwa hawajajua majaliwa yao juu maamuzi ya serikali kuhusu kilio chao dhidi ya kodi ya simu ya sh .
1,000 kwa mwezi iliyopitishwa na bunge la bajeti ya mwaka 2013 / 14 , kuna habari kwamba mzigo huo sasa unaweza kuhamishiwa kwenye ununuaji wa vocha .
mkutano wa 12 wa bunge la jamhuri ya muungano wa tanzania unatarajiwa kuanza mjini hapa leo ambapo pamoja na mambo mengine , utajadili miswada sita .
kwa mujibu wa ratiba iliyotolewa na ofisi ya bunge hapa jana , kikao kitaanza saa 3 : 00 asubuhi kwa kipindi cha maswali na majibu na baadaye kufuatiwa na muswada wa sheria ya taifa ya umwagiliaji wa mwaka 2013 ambao utajadiliwa hadi kesho jumatano .
tegemeo la umma kwa serikali kuwasilisha bungeni muswada wa mabadiliko ya sheria iliyoanzisha tozo la shilingi 1,000 kwa mwezi kwa watumiaji wa simu za kiganjani , limetoweka .
hali hiyo inatokana na bunge kupanga ratiba ya shughuli zake kwa mkutano wa 12 unaoanza jumanne wiki ijayo mjini dodoma , pasipo kuwapo muswada wa mabadiliko ya sheria ya fedha inayoanzisha tozo za simu .
kamati ya kudumu ya bunge ya hesabu za serikali ( pac ) , imesema kuwa taarifa ya matumizi ya fedha katika wizara ya ujenzi , ina shaka kwani kuna fedha ambazo ziliombwa kwa ajili ya miradi ambayo haipo .
shirika la nyumba la taifa ( nhc ) , limesema baadhi ya wanasiasa walioko katika mamlaka za juu serikalini , watu maarufu pamoja na matajiri , wamekuwa wakiendesha vitendo vya hujuma za makusudi kwa nia mbaya ya kukwamisha kasi ya utendaji kazi mzuri wa shirika .
kamati ya hesabu za serikali ( pac ) , imeiagiza wizara ya ardhi , nyumba na maendeleo ya makazi kurudia upya zoezi la utoaji wa hati za ardhi zote , pamoja na kuziweka katika mfumo wa kielektroniki badala ya mfumo wa karatasi , yaani analojia .
kamati tatu za bunge zimelalamikia sheria ya maadili ya viongozi wa umma kwamba haiweki uwazi wa kutangaza umiliki wa mali za viongozi hivyo kusababisha viongozi kutoweka wazi mali wanazomiliki .
mbunge wa urambo mashariki ( ccm ) , samuel sitta , amesema mahasimu wake kisiasa , wameimarisha mkakati wa kumchonganisha na wabunge , ili kufifisha jitihada zake za kupambana na ufisadi .
kamati ya bunge ya ardhi , maliasili na mazingira imesema vigogo wakubwa wa serikali wanaongoza kwa kujihusisha na biashara ya pembe za ndovu ndiyo maana zoezi la kuzuia majangili halifanikiwi kwa miaka mingi .
madudu zaidi yamebainika katika wizara ya elimu na mafunzo ya ufundi , baada ya kuwapanga baadhi ya wanafunzi wa kidato cha tano kwenye shule ambazo hazina masomo ya michepuo yao .
hii ni baada ya wanafunzi 1,189 waliochaguliwa kujiunga kidato cha tano katika shule mbalimbali nchini kubadilishwa na kupangiwa shule nyingine .
mahakama ya hakimu mkazi mkoa wa mtwara imetupilia mbali mashtaka ya uchochezi yaliyokuwa yakimkabili mbunge wa mtwara mjini ( ccm ) , hasnain murji , hivyo ameachiwa huru .
murji alikuwa akikabiliwa na tuhuma za uchochezi wa vurugu za kupinga kujengwa bomba la kusafirisha gesi asilia kutoka mkoani mtwara hadi jijini dar es salaam , zilizosababisha vifo vya watu watatu na wengine kadhaa kujeruhiwa mei , mwaka huu .
mbunge wa masasi mjini , mariam kasembe ( ccm ) , amemwaga machozi mbele ya waziri wa maji , profesa jumanne maghembe , baada ya kutembele nyumba yake iliyoteketezwa kwa moto na wananchi katika vurugu zilizotokea machi , mwaka huu .
wajumbe wa kamati ya bunge ya hesabu za serikali za mitaa ( laac ) wamekuja juu kutokana na ujenzi wa soko la mwanjelwa la halmashauri ya jiji la mbeya kusuasua na kuiomba serikali kuingilia baada ya mkandarasi kudaiwa kuandika barua ya kuomba kusitisha mkataba .
wakati jeshi la polisi likitoa visingizio kwamba linashindwa kunasa watuhumiwa wanaosafirisha dawa za kulevya wanaopitia uwanja wa ndege wa kimataifa wa julius nyerere ( jnia ) , kutokana na kukosekana kwa vitendea kazi , mbunge wa kinondoni ( ccm ) , idd azzan , amesema yupo tayari kupigwa risasi au kunyongwa hadharani kama itathibitika anahusika na biashara hiyo .
serikali sasa imekubali kuwa kodi mpya ya laini ya simu ni mgogoro na inakusudia kurejesha muswada wa sheria ulioazisha kodi hiyo bungeni kwa mjadala zaidi .
waziri wa ushirikiano wa afrika mashariki , samuel sitta ( pichani ) , amesema litakuwa jambo la kuchekesha duniani iwapo nchi maskini kama tanzania itakuwa na marais watatu kama muundo wa serikali tatu uliopendekezwa kwenye rasimu ya katiba mpya utapitishwa .
waziri wa uchukuzi , dk .
harrison mwakyembe , ametoa misaada yenye thamani ya zaidi ya sh. milioni 40 jimboni mwake yakiwamo madawati 315 yatakayogawanywa kwa shule za msingi za jimbo la kyela mkoani mbeya .
hatimaye serikali imetoa tamko kuhusu kuwatoza watumiaji wa simu za mkononi kiasi cha sh.1000 kama kodi kila mwezi kwa madai ya kwamba kodi hiyo ilisharidhiwa na kupitishwa na wabunge wenyewe na kwamba inalenga kuboresha huduma mbalimbali za kijamii nchini .
naibu spika , job ndugai , amewataka wananchi kutoa taarifa katika ofisi ya bunge pale wanapobaini kuwapo kwa matumizi mabaya ya fedha za mfuko wa maendeleo ya jimbo ( cgf ) .
ndugai alisema zipo taratibu zinazotakiwa kufuatwa katika matumizi ya fedha hizo ambazo pamoja na kwamba mbunge ni mwenyekiti wa mfuko huo , lakini haruhusiwi kufanya manunuzi mwenyewe .
mahakama ya hakimu mkazi mkoa wa dodoma , imemfutia mashtaka na kumwachia huru , mbunge wa mbeya mjini , joseph mbilinyi , ( chadema ) , maarufu sugu baada ya kuthibitisha kuwa hati ya mashtaka ina mapungufu ya kisheria .
hofu ya kutopatikana tija kwa fedha nyingi zinazoidhinishwa katika bajeti kwa ajili ya miradi ya kupambana na ukimwi imesababisha makadirio ya matumizi ya ofisi ya makamu wa kwanza wa rais zanzibar maalim seif sharif hamad , kukwama kupitishwa .
mbunge wa iringa mjini ( chadema ) , mchungaji peter msigwa ameitaka serikali ieleze ni lini itawajengea askari nyumba bora ili waweze kuishi katika mazingira mazuri .
msigwa alitoa kauli hiyo jana bungeni alipokuwa akiuliza swali la nyongeza kwa kuitaka serikali ieleze ni lini itawaboreshea makazi askari wa jeshi la polisi hususani askari wa iringa mjini kutokana na kuishi katika nyumba alizosema hazina hadhi .
chama cha demokrasia na maendeleo ( chadema ) kimetajwa kuwa kimeongoza kwa wabunge wake 48 kutoa michango 57 kwenye vikao mbalimbali vya bunge vinavyoendelea mjini dodoma .
tathmini hiyo ya miaka miwili ya bunge ilifanywa na shirika lisilo la kiserikali , twaweza kwa kushirikiana na kituo cha economic prosperity ( cep ) kwa kuzingatia ushiriki wa wabunge katika vikao kwa miaka miwili ya kipindi cha ubunge cha 2010 – 2015 .
jana bunge lilipitisha bajeti ya serikali kwa mwaka wa fedha wa 2013 / 14 huku ikiweka kiporo suala la kupunguza kodi ya mafuta ya petroli , dizeli na taa , kodi ya lipa kadiri unavyopata ( paye ) na bodaboda , badala yake kodi hizo zitatolewa ufafanuzi katika muswada wa fedha utakapowasilishwa bungeni kesho kutwa .
waziri wa fedha , dk .
william mgimwa , leo atakuwa kikaangoni atakapoanza kujibu hoja za wabunge hasa ongezeko la ushuru wa mafuta ya petroli ambalo limelalamikiwa na baadhi ya wabunge wa chama cha mapinduzi ( ccm ) kuwa ina mapungufu kadhaa .
mbunge wa nkasi kaskazini , ali keissy ( ccm ) , amewataka watanzania kuwa makini na sheria mpya ya ndoa inayotarajiwa kuletwa bungeni .
mbunge huyo amesema sheria hiyo mpya inaweza ikasababisha nchi kuongozwa na rais , wabunge na madiwani wanaojihusisha na vitendo vya mapenzi ya jinsia moja ( mashoga ) .
mbunge wa korogwe vijijini , stephen ngonyani maarufu profesa majimarefu ( ccm ) , ametahadharisha wanasiasa kuacha kupandikiza mbegu ya ukabila nchini kwa sababu hali hiyo inakwamisha jitihada za kuwaletea wananchi maendeleo .
mbunge wa kasulu mjini , moses machali ( nccr-mageuzi ) , amejeruhiwa baada ya kupigwa na watu wasiojulikana karibu na nyumbani kwake wakati akitokea kuhudhuria vikao vya bunge .
aidha , kijana mmoja aliyekuwa akimsaidia machali , alijeruhiwa kwa kung ’ atwa meno mgongoni .
mbunge wa viti maalum , clara mwatuka ( cuf ) , amelikana swali lake na kudai kuwa hakuwahi kuuliza swali linalohusu rada hata siku moja . & ldquo ; mheshimiwa spika & hellip ; tangu niingie bungeni hapa sijawahi kuuliza swali linalohusu masuala ya rada hata siku moja kwa hiyo hilo si swali langu , & rdquo ; alisema hata hivyo , spika wa bunge , anne makinda alipoona mbunge huyo amelikana swali hilo alisema : & ldquo ; waziri naomba basi hilo swali liwe langu .
mbunge wa bukene , seleman zedi ( ccm ) , ameitaka serikali kuliwezesha shirika la maendeleo ya petroli ( tpdc ) , ili lidhibiti na kusimamia kampuni zinazojishughulisha na utafiti wa mafuta na gesi nchi ipate faida .
kamati maalum ya kuchunguza mgogoro wa ujenzi wa bomba la gesi asilia kutoka mtwara kwenda dar es salaam , imesema imefikia katika hatua nzuri baada ya kuwasikiliza watu wengi wanaohusika na mgogoro huo .
wakati mbunge wa dole , sylivester mabumba ( ccm ) , akiomba serikali kuunda tume ya kuwachunguza maofisa wa mamlaka ya mapato tanzania ( tra ) wenye mali za kupindukia , mbunge wa manyoni magharibi , john lwenje ( ccm ) ameomba wafanyakazi wa wizara ya fedha waondolewe badala yake wakodiwe wataalam wazungu kufanya kazi hiyo .
serikali sasa isikilize hoja hizi za wabunge kuhusu bajeti ya 2013 / 14 jumatatu ijayo wabunge wa bunge la jamhuri ya muungano wa tanzania watapitisha bajeti ya serikali kwa mwaka wa fedha wa 2013 / 14 iliyowasilishwa bungeni wiki iliyopita .
mbunge wa kawe , halima mdee , ameanza mazoezi makali kwa ajili ya kumkabili nyota wa filamu nchini , jacqueline wolper , katika moja ya mapambano ya ndondi za utangulizi yatakayofanyika kwenye tamasha la matumaini kwenye uwanja wa taifa jijini dar es salaam julai 7 .
mbunge wa sumbawanga mjini ( ccm ) , hillary aeshi , amemlipua mbunge wa zamani wa jimbo la kwela , chrisant mzindakaya , akidai amemilikishwa nyumba 15 za serikali peke yake wilayani sumbawanga .
taarifa ya serikali iliyosomwa bungeni jana na waziri wa nchi , ofisi ya waziri mkuu ( sera , uratibu na bunge ) , william lukuvi , kuhusiana na tukio la shambulizi la bomu jijini arusha jumamosi iliyopita , imemchafua mwenyekiti wa chama cha demokrasia na maendeleo ( chadema ) , freeman mbowe .
kambi ya upinzani bungeni jana ilishindwa kuwasilisha bajeti mbadala bungeni kwa mwaka wa fedha 2013 / 2014 baada ya wabunge wake kutohudhuria kikao hicho .
hata hivyo , kambi hiyo ilitoa hotuba yake kwa vyombo vya habari ikieleza kutumia sh .
mbunge wa mbozi mashariki , godfrey zambi ( ccm ) , ameitaka serikali kutoa tamko kuhusu kauli ya mkurugezi mkuu wa taasisi ya kuzuia na kupambana na rushwa ( takukuru ) , dk .
edward hosea , kuwa amefungwa mikono kuwashtaki vigogo wanaojihusisha na rushwa kubwa kubwa badala yake amepewa uwezo wa kushitaki makosa madogo madogo ongezeko la manunuzi na matumizi makubwa ya serikali , ambalo hayaendi sambamba na ongezeko la juhudi za ukusanyaji wa mapato , yataendelea kuwa mzigo mzito kwa taifa iwapo hatua hazitachukuliwa kurekebisha hali hiyo .
mbunge wa kisesa ( ccm ) , luhaga mpina , amesema hataiunga mkono bajeti ya serikali ya 2013 / 2014 kwa sababu haina jipya ikiwamo kukosekana kwa vyanzo vipya vya mapato na nidhamu katika upangaji wa matumizi .
spika wa bunge , anne makinda , amewashukia wabunge akisema kwamba hawana mtandao wa pamoja katika kusimamia masuala yanayogusa maslahi ya nchi .
amesema wengi wao kila mmoja huwa anajibu hoja yake mwenyewe bila kuwashirikisha wenzake ili aonekane ndiye mwanzilishi .
serikali imetangaza bajeti yake ya mwaka wa fedha wa 2013 / 14 ambayo imepandisha kodi za & hellip ; & hellip ; ili kufanikisha lengo la kukusanya jumla ya sh. trilioni 18.249 kutoka kwenye vyanzo vya ndani na nje .
wabunge wamelalamikia ongezeko la kodi katika mafuta ya petroli wakisema litachangia kupandisha zaidi gharama za maisha kwa wananchi .
lawama hizo walizitoa jana wakati wakitoa maoni yao kuhusu bajeti ya serikali kwa mwaka 2013 / 2014 iliyosomwa na waziri wa fedha , dk .
serikali imebuni mfumo mpya wa usambazaji wa pembejeo utakaotumika katika msimu wa kilimo wa 2013 / 14 .
naibu waziri wa kilimo , chakula na ushirika , adam malima aliliambia bunge mjini hapa jana kuwa , mfumo huo umejadiliwa katika semina ya usambazaji wa pembejeo iliyofanyika mei mwaka huu .
zao la mwani limeanza kukosa soko visiwani hapa na kutokana na mahitaji yake kuwa madogo katika soko la dunia ikilinganishwa na kiwango kikubwa kinachozalishwa na wakulima wa unguja na pemba .
katibu wa mbunge wa mtwara mjini , hasnain murji , meckland millanzi , ameiomba mahakama ya wilaya ya mtwara kutenda haki , bila kushinikizwa na upande wowote ili haki itendeke dhidi ya mbunge huyo , ambaye yuko rumande kwa kushindwa kutimiza masharti ya dhamana .
macho na masikio ya wananchi kesho yanaelekezwa dodoma kusikiliza bajeti ya serikali kwa mwaka 2013 / 14 itakayowasilishwa majira ya saa 10 jioni .
hii ni bajeti muhimu sana kwa wananchi kwa sababu ndiyo itakayofafanua mipango ya maendeleo ya serikali kwa mwaka wa fedha wa 2013 / 14 .
mbunge wa mkinga , dastan kitandula , amesema serikali inapoteza sh. bilioni 26 kwa mwaka kutokana na makampuni matano ya uchimbaji wa madini ambayo yamegoma kulipa kodi .
kutokana na hali hiyo , mbunge huyo ametaka kujua hatua za haraka zinazochukuliwa na serikali kuhakikisha kampuni hizo zinalipa kodi hizo .
mbunge wa jimbo la kilwa kusini , selemani bungara , amewataka wachezaji wa soka kujituma zaidi wawapo mashindanoni kutokana na mchezo huo sasa kugeuka ajira inayolipa .
hayo yalisemwa na diwani wa kata ya masoko , abdallah abbas kwa niaba ya mbunge huyo wakati wa ufunguzi wa mashindano ya kombe la bungara yanayoshirikisha kata mbili za kivinje na masoko zilizopo wilayani kilwa .
wabunge wamepinga marekebisho ya sheria ya uchaguzi wa mamlaka za serikali za mitaa yanayolenga kuongeza muda usiozidi miezi sita inapoonekana kwamba kesi za uchaguzi wa madiwani haziwezi kuhitimishwa ndani ya miezi 18 .
mbunge wa viti maalum ( chadema ) , susan lyimo amependekeza kuwa rais ambaye anamaliza muda wake wa utawala huku akiwa ameshindwa kutekeleza ahadi alizotoa kwenye kampeni za uchaguzi kupelekwa mahakamani .
waziri wa nchi katika ofisi ya waziri mkuu , tawala za mikoa na serikali za mitaa ( tamisemi ) , hawa ghasia , amesema wakaguzi wa ndani ambao watabainika kuwa ripoti zao hazina mapungufu ambayo yameainishwa na mkaguzi wa nje watachukuliwa hatua .
hatimaye hali ya amani katika eneo la kiwanda cha kusindika chai cha mponde imeanza kutengemaa baada ya kikundi cha ushirika wa chai cha kwaminyasa waliokuwa wamezingira kiwanda hicho kwa kuzuia kuendelea kwa shughuli za uendeshaji kuamriwa kuondoka mara moja na serikali ya mkoa wa tanga .
tamashala matumaini ambalo mwaka jana lilifanyika kwenye uwanja wa taifa , dar es salaam , mwaka huu tena linarejea kwenye uwanja huo julai 7 ambapo kutakuwa na burudani na michezo mbalimbali .
mgawanyiko umeibuka miongoni mwa wabunge kupitia chama cha mapinduzi ( ccm ) , ukihusishwa na masuala ya udini katika kupitisha bajeti za wizara zilizowasilishwa bungeni .
vyanzo vya habari kutoka ndani ya kamati ya wabunge hao , vimeeleza kuwa , licha ya chama hicho kuwa katika makundi yanayopingika kwa misimamo , wameibuka wabunge wanaotumia mianya ya kidini kupenyeza ajenda zao .
ile ’ nyundo ’ inayotumiwa kuwashughulikia wabunge wanaotokana na vyama vya siasa , inaelekea kuzikwa rasmi , baada ya rasimu ya katiba mpya ya mwaka 2013 , iliyozinduliwa jumatatu wiki hii , kupendekeza kwamba uamuzi wa vyama hivyo wa kuwafukuza au kuwavua uanachama , hautapoteza ubunge wao .
kambi ya upinzani imeibua sakata la ufisadi wa shilingi bilioni 133 kwenye akaunti ya madeni ya nje ( epa ) ikihoji mambo kadhaa ikiwamo kiasi cha fedha zilizorejeshwa hadi sasa .
mwenyekiti wa chama cha nccr-mageuzi , james mbatia , ameitaka serikali kusitisha usambazaji wa nakala za vitabu na mihutasari inayofikia milioni 18 , akiviita kuwa ni ’ sumu kwa kizazi cha tanzania ’ .
mbunge wa viti maalum ( chadema ) , suzan lyimo , ameibana serikali akiitaka ilielezea taifa kwanini mawaziri wametoa kauli mbili tofauti kuhusiana na upangaji wa matokeo ya kidato cha nne kwa kutumia mfumo mpya wa fixed grade ranges , ambao unaelezwa kusababisha wanafunzi wengi kufeli .
bunge juzi lilipitisha makadirio ya mapato na matumizi ya wizara ya elimu na mafunzo ya ufundi baada ya kuwako kwa mjadala mkali na wa kina juu ya utendaji wa wizara hii .
mambo mengi ya kimsingi yaliwekwa wazi hasa juu ya kuendelea kuporomoka kwa ubora wa elimu nchini .
waziri wa nchi ofisi ya rais ( mahusiano na uratibu ) , steven wassira na makamu mkuu wa chuo kikuu cha mtakatifu agustino ( saut ) , dk.charles kitima , wametoana jasho kwenye mhadhara wa jumuiya ya wanafunzi wa saut , wakati walipokuwa wakijadili dhana ya maendeleo na amani ya nchi .
wakati umma ukiendelea kujadili rasimu ya katiba mpya iliyotolewa na tume ya katiba , kundi ambalo linaelekea kukumbwa na kimbunga kikubwa ni watu waliokuwa wanausaka ubunge ili kupata nafasi za uwaziri .
mbunge wa rombo ( chadema ) , joseph selasini , ’ amemshukia ’ mbunge wa mbinga magharibi ( ccm ) , john komba , kwa kutunga na kuimba nyimbo zinazochochea kuvuruga amani , umoja na mshikamano nchini .
kuna dalili kwamba tume ya katiba mpya chini ya mwenyekiti wake , jaji joseph warioba , imetaga yai la dhahabu .
pamoja na kila aina ya udhaifu ambao unaweza kutajwa kuwamo ndani ya rasimu ya katiba mpya ya jamhuri ya muungano wa tanzania iliyowekwa hadharani jumatatu wiki hii , bado ukweli mmoja unabakia umesimama wima na kuonekana wazi na kila muungwana na anayeitakia nchi hii mema .
mbunge wa ccm ailipua serikali matokeo mabaya kidato cha nne kasi ya wabunge kupitia chama cha mapinduzi ( ccm ) , kukosoa utekelezaji wa serikali ya rais jakaya kikwete inazidi kuongezeka ndani ya bunge .
jana , mbunge wa ngara ( ccm ) , deogratias ntukamazina , aliikosoa serikali hiyo kwa kuyafuta matokeo ya mtihani wa kidato cha nne kwa mwaka 2012 , kisha kuyatangaza utangaza upya hivi karibuni .
vyama vya wafanyakazi , wanasheria na walemavu vimesema rasimu ya katiba mpya utaleta katiba nzuri .
katibu mkuu wa chama cha walemavu tanzania ( shiviwata ) , elias masamaki , amesema rasimu ya katiba mpya inaonyesha kuwatendea haki walemavu kwa kupendekeza kuwa rais ateue wabunge walemavu kwa kuwa watasaidia kuwakomboa walemavu wenzao .
tabia ya utoro wa mawaziri na wabunge bungeni sasa limegeuka kuwa maisha ya kawaida hata wakati wa kujadili masuala nyeti yenye maslahi kwa taifa .
kuna wakati mbunge wa mwibara ( ccm ) , kangi lugora aliwahi kuomba bunge liahirishe mjadala wa bajeti ya wizara ya kilimo baada ya kuona idadi ndogo sana ya wabunge na mawaziri bungeni .
kumezuka tabia ya baadhi ya wabunge kujigeuza wasemaji wa serikali bungeni kazi ambayo kwa kawaida hufanywa na mawaziri .
kuna baadhi ya wabunge ambao wamesahu kwamba wajibu wao wa msingi ni kuikosoa na kusimamia serikali kuhakikisha inatimiza wajibu wake wa kutimiza ahadi na kuwaletea wananchi maendeleo .
wiki iliyopita , kikao cha bunge la bajeti katika kujadili hotuba ya waziri wa mambo ya nje na ushirikiano wa kimataifa , bernad membe , lilichafuka .
vurugu zikatokea kati ya wabunge wa vyama vinavyoungwa mkono kwa wingi nchini , chama cha demokrasia na maendeleo ( chadema ) na chama cha wananchi ( cuf ) .
mbunge wa kondoa kaskazini , zabein mhita ( ccm ) , amedondosha machozi bungeni baada ya kukumbuka jinsi alivyolazimika kupanda kwenye mti ili kupokea simu ya msiba wa mwanae .
mhita ambaye aliwahi kuwa waziri wa sayansi na teknolojia na elimu ya juu , katika serikali ya awamu ya tatu iliyoongozwa rais mstaafu benjamin mkapa , alimwaga machozi jana wakati akichangia hotuba ya bajeti ya wizara ya mawasiliano , sayansi na teknolojia kwa mwaka 2013 / 2014 .
waziri mkuu mstaafu , edward lowassa , amewataka watanzania kujenga utamaduni wa kuchangia masuala ya maendeleo katika maeneo walikotoka na sio kusubiri kurudishwa katika masanduku wakiwa marehemu .
spika wa bunge , anne makinda , ameshiriki ibada ya maombi maalum kwa ajili ya kumuombea hayati baba wa taifa , mwalimu julisu nyerere .
maombi hayo yalifanyika katika mji wa namgongo nchini uganda yakiwa na lengo la kumtangaza mwalimu nyerere kuwa mwenye heri na hatimaye mtakatifu kulingana na na imani ya dhehebu la kikatoliki .
mbunge wa ngara , deogratias ntukamazina ( ccm ) , amesema baadhi ya watumishi wa halmashauri wana uwezo wa kuwaweka mfukoni wakaguzi wa mahesabu na kupewa hati safi na kuficha mapungufu .
wakati tume ya mabadiliko ya katiba ikizindua rasimu ya katiba ya jamhuri ya muungano wa tanzania jijini dar es salaam leo , wananchi wengi wanashauku kubwa kujua kama itajibu masuala nyeti kama mfumo wa muungano , rasilimali , madaraka ya rais na mengine mengi .
wakati watanzania wakilalamikia mwenendo usioridhisha wa uendeshaji wa vikao vya bunge , naibu spika , job ndugai , ameibuka na kusema kuanzia sasa mbunge kutoka chama cha upinzani akifanya kitendo chochote cha utovu wa nidhamu bungeni hatachukuliwa hatua za kinidhamu .
chama cha demokrasia na maendeleo ( chadema ) na chama cha wananchi ( cuf ) , vimeliangukia bunge na kuomba msahama kwa ’ machafuko ’ waliyoyasabisha jana bungeni mjini dodoma .
dalili za kukwama kwa bajeti ya wizara ya maendeleo ya mifugo , zimeonekana jana , baada ya wabunge kuitaka serikali kuongeza shilingi bilioni 40 katika bajeti ya wizara hiyo kwa mwaka 2013 / 2014 .
hotuba ya kambi rasmi ya upinzani kuhusu bajeti ya wizara ya mambo ya nje na ushrikiano wa kimataifa jana ilisababisha mtafaruku mkubwa bungeni na siku nzima bunge likakwama kufanya shughuli zake .
wabunge wameitaka serikali kuangalia upya misamaha ya kodi nchini ili kuokoa mabilioni ya fedha yanayopotea kila mwaka kutokana na misamaha hiyo .
walitoa rai hiyo jana katika mdahalo ulioandaliwa na asasi za kiraia nchini ( azaki ) , ikiwa ni sehemu ya shughuli zinazofanyika katika maonyesho ya asasi hizo yanayoendelea katika viwanja vya bunge mjini hapa .
mbunge wa jimbo la ludewa ccm ) , deo filikunjombe , amejikuta akibebwa juu juu na wananchi wake baada ya kuwasili katika kijiji cha lupingu , kilichopo katika tarafa ya mwambao wa ziwa nyasa , wilayani humo .
nchi za afrika zimetakiwa kuridhia na kusaini mkataba wa kupinga matumizi yasiyo sahihi ya silaha ambazo hazina alama yoyote ili kupunguza uhalifu katika nchi hizo .
hayo yalielezwa jijini dar es salaam na mbunge wa korogwe mjini ( ccm ) , yusuph abdallah nassir , wakati akifungua mkutano wa mtandao wabunge wanaopigania demokrasia , amani , utawala wa sheria , na haki za binadamu duniani .
upelelezi wa kesi ya kuchochea kutenda kosa na kusababisha uvunjifu wa amani katika chuo cha uhasibu njiro inayomkabili mbunge wa arusha mjini godbless lema umekamilika .
naibu waziri wa sayansi na teknolojia , january makamba , anatuhumiwa kushiriki kuchochea wananchi ili wafanye uasi na kujichukulia sheria mkononi kwa kuwahamasisha kuvamia kiwanda cha kusindika chai cha mponde ambao wamefanya uharibifu mkubwa wilayani lushoto .
mjumbe wa kamati teule ya bunge iliyoundwa na spika anne makinda , wiki iliyopita kwa ajili ya kuchunguza kiini cha mgogoro wa ujenzi wa bomba la gesi kutoka mtwara kwenda dar es salaam , ramo makani , ’ amewatuliza ’ wanafunzi wa vyuo vya elimu ya juu wanaotoka mikoa ya kusini , akiwataka kukaa pembeni na kuiachia kamati hiyo kutafuta ukweli wa madai ya wakazi wa mkoa wa mtwara .
wabunge wameijia juu serikali wakitaka wawekezaji na vigogo waliojilimbikizia ardhi kubwa bila kuiendeleza wafutiwe umiliki ili igawiwe kwa wananchi wasio na ardhi .
walitoa ushauri huo jana wakati wakichangia makadirio ya mapato na matumizi ya wizara ya ardhi , nyumba na maendeleo ya makazi .
mbunge wa kisesa ( ccm ) , luhaga mpina leo anatarajia kuwasilisha bungeni maelezo binafsi kwa spika , juu ya matumizi ya kawaida ya serikali kuwa makubwa kuliko mapato ya ndani na hivyo kusababisha deni la taifa kuongezeka .
spika wa bunge , anne makinda , jumamosi aliunda kamati ya bunge kwenda kuchunguza chanzo cha vurugu mtwara , uamuzi huo wa spika , umepingwa na mbunge wa ubungo , ( chadema ) , john mnyika ambaye amezungumza na mwandishi wetu kuhusu mambo aliyodai kuwa spika amekiuka kanuni za bunge .
bila kumung ’ unya maneno naweza kurudia yaliyowahi kusemwa , yanayosemwa na yanayoendelea kusemwa kuhusu upendeleo wa spika wa bunge , anne makinda , dhidi ya wabunge wa ccm .
yamesemwa mengi kuhusu namna anavyoliendesha bunge kishabiki , inavyoonekana hafanyi hivyo kwa matakwa yake bali kwa shinikizo la waliomweka madarakani .
kambi ya rasmi ya upinzani bungeni , imeorodhesha mashamba 36 yenye ukubwa wa maelfu ya hekta za ardhi ambayo wananchi waliporwa kimabavu na serikali kwa kutofuata sheria na kisha kupewa wawekezaji .
mbunge wa tabora mjini ( ccm ) , aden rage , ameitaka serikali kuongeza ada ya usajili wa magezeti hadi kufikia sh. milioni 500 badala ya sh .
500,000 ilivyo sasa .
rage alitoa kauli hiyo jana bungeni alipokuwa akiuliza swali la nyongeza , akiitaka serikali kuongeza ada ya usajili hadi kufikia sh .
mbunge wa mtwara mjini , hasnain mohamed murji , amesema wananchi wa mtwara hawazuii gesi asilia kusafirishwa kwenda dar es salaam , bali wanachotaka ni kuwapo kwa mchanganuo wa jinsi watakavyonufaika na mradi huo .
katibu mkuu wa wizara ya nishati na madini , eliakim maswi , amezozana na mbunge wa simanjiro ( ccm ) , christopher ole sendeka , kwa kile kinachoelezwa kuchukizwa na tabia ya mbunge huyo ya kuipiga ’ mawe ’ mazito hoja za wizara hiyo .
mbunge wa arusha mjini ( chadema ) , godbless lema , amelishutumu jeshi la polisi mkoani arusha kwamba limekwa kipeperushi cha mkuu wa mkoa wa huo , magesa mulongo , kutokana na kutumika katika kumsafisha katika sakata la kutumiwa ujumbe wa vitisho katika simu yake ya mkononi .
uamuzi wa spika wa bunge , anne makinda , jumamosi kuunda kamati ya bunge kwenda kuchunguza chanzo cha vurugu mtwara umepingwa na mbunge wa ubungo , ( chadema ) , john mnyika .
mnyika anasema bunge lilipaswa kuunda kamati teule badala yake spika ameunda kamati yake maalum ambayo haitazingatia kwa ukamilifu matakwa ya sheria ya kinga , haki na madaraka ya bunge katika kuwahoji mashahidi na kuitisha ushahidi .
baraza la habari la tanzania ( mct ) , limemshukia mbunge kondoa kusini ( ccm ) , juma nkamia , kwa hatua yake ya kulipuuza baraza hilo wakati alishawahi kunufaika nalo kwa kupelekwa india yeye na wadau wengine wa habari kujifunza sheria na haki za kupata habari ziara iliyogharimu sh .
wabunge jana walijadili rasimu ya sera ya elimu huku wakitofautiana kuhusiana na suala la watoto wenye umri wa miaka mitatu kuanza shule ya awali kutokana na mazingira ya vijijini kutofautiana na yale ya mijini .
mjadala wa bajeti ya wizara ya nishati na madini kwa mwaka 2013 / 14 umesitishwa na kuondolewa bungeni ili kuepuka kuchochea vurugu za mtwara .
bajeti hiyo ambayo ilianza kujadiliwa juzi na kupangiwa kumalizika jana , sasa itajadiliwa katika tarehe itakayopangwa kutokana na kuhofia michango ya wabunge kuwa inaweza kuchochea vurugu za gesi mkoani mtwara .
kambi rasmi ya upinzani bungeni imeibua upya sakata la aliyekuwa katibu mkuu wa wizara ya nishati na madini , david jairo na richmond , huku ikilishutumu bunge kwamba , limeshindwa kusimamia utekelezwaji wa maazimio yake .
kamanda wa polisi wa mkoa wa arusha , liberatus sabas , amedai uchunguzi wa awali kuhusu ujumbe unaodaiwa kutumwa na mkuu wa mkoa wa arusha , magesa mulongo , umetumwa na mtandao wa simu wa nje ya nchi .
pata kibonzo chako kila siku toka kwa kabwela , the flexibles na dogo while the arguments in the current case aren ’ t new , moak says that the case — which is actually the combination of six separate lawsuits — represents a broader coalition of plaintiffs than in the past .
“ one way to make education cost less is to lower the goals of education , ” he says .
nbc new yorksee realtime coveragefireworks go off in bronx park , rattling areawall street journal- & lrm ; 12 minutes ago & lrm ; new york - authorities say a bunch of fireworks were set off or went off in a new york city park , causing a boom and a spate of 911 calls but no injuries.detonated fireworks cause loud explosion in bronx : fdnynbc new yorksee all 6 sourcesrelated : the bronx a physical or electronic signature of a person authorized to act on behalf of the owner of an exclusive right that is allegedly infringed ; identification of the material that is claimed to be infringing or to be the subject of infringing activity and that is to be removed or access to which is to be disabled , and information reasonably sufficient to permit us to locate the material ; a statement that you have a good faith belief that use of the material in the manner complained of is not authorized by the copyright owner , its agent or the law ; and a statement that the information in the notification is accurate , and under penalty of perjury , that you are authorized to act on behalf of the owner of an exclusive right that is allegedly infringed .
if you are seeking permission to use our content , do not contact us at this address .
instead , please see our reprint and reuse policy or visit www.djreprints.com.
newseconomyfinancehealth carereal estateretailwealthautosearningsenergymediapoliticscommentaryspecial reportsasiaeuropemarketspre-marketsu.s.asiaeuropestockscommoditiescurrenciesbondsfundsetfsinvestingfinancial advisorspersonal financecnbc explainsportfoliowatchliststock screenerfund screenertechmobilesocial mediaenterprisegamingcybersecuritysmall businessfranchisingfinancingmanagementvideolatest videodigital workshopu.s. videoasia videoeurope videoceo interviewsanalyst interviewsfull episodesclosed captioningshowswatch livecnbc u.s.cnbc asia-pacificcnbc europecnbc worldfull episodescnbcabout cnbcsite mapvideo reprintsadvertisecareershelpcontactprivacy policyterms of serviceindependent programming reportlatest news releasesrsscertain market data provided by thomson reutersdata also provided bydata is a real-time snapshot * data is delayed at least 15 minutesglobal business and financial news , stock quotes , and market data and analysis © 2014 cnbc llc . all rights reserved.a division of nbcuniversalnewsnow : south sudan news | every source , every five minutes , 24 / 7 the title of this column , & # 8220 ; confessions of a tightrope walker , & # 8221 ; is an homage to the attention to minutiae required of us all – not just while in school , but as an ongoing philosophy of life .
as westernized styles of living are funneled through the pipeline , don ’ t just be a hungry mouth on the other end . plug the hole , look up the pipe , and take a good look at the other end . if you can ’ t see the whites of their eyes , can ’ t determine the human qualities that motivate the delivery of the fodder to which we are exposed , perhaps it is time to begin shortening the pipe . or reversing it .
acceptance through use .
this website ( the " site " ) is operated by kob-tv , llc ( " operator " ) .
by using the site , you agree to be bound by all of the terms , conditions and notices contained or referenced herein ( collectively , the " terms of use " ) .
you should review the terms of use from time to time .
operator may change any of the terms of use at any time by posting revisions to the site .
your continued use of the site constitutes your acceptance of the revised terms of use .
if you do not agree to all of the terms of use , you must exit the site immediately .
no use by children .
the site is not directed to , or intended for use by , children ( defined as anyone age twelve or younger ) .
children should not use the site or submit any information to operator .
unauthorized use and termination .
you agree to use the site only for authorized and legal activities .
operator reserves the right , in its sole discretion , to terminate your access to all or part of the site at any time and for any or no reason .
apologetics " always be prepared to make a defense to any one who calls you to account for the hope that is in you , yet do it with gentleness and reverence ; and keep your conscience clear , so that , when you are abused , those who revile your good behavior in christ may be put to shame . " ( 1 peter 3 : 15-16 ) his right ear cut off and his penis and testicles shoved into a gourd .
he was later moved to the central prison but the damage has their crime was to be members of msd , the movement for the house of a frodebu leader killing his 7-year-old son and leaving him gravely later , in the far east of the country , in the small town of the result was the death of four and the hospitalisation of member of a political party that is not the one that is in power is a crime and the third option is to return to the violence and permanent this is not a choice that the opposition , or any citizen turned a blind eye to all these manoeuvrings and abuses of human rights and of the party in power to stop arresting , torturing and assassinating the political boys ' club and no one was going to rock the boat in this period of multiple and the results of the elections known before the populace even goes to the polls .
the eac has chosen to support the perpetrators of abuse and not the we realise that if democracy is to be saved , it is for us and courageous in burundi .
we cannot return to the dictatorships that have to be an example to the region .
we need to show how political pluralism can what is the value of the east african community if its if we are serious about democracy in africa we need to stop the naiveté of the foreign ministers in the region was is he said , " the eac will insist on the democratisation of all member states to we need to hold our leaders accountable so that all can will pay it for them .
nor will they obtain it on credit . "
este sitio o aplicación es propiedad o está administrado por clear channel communications , inc .
( " clear channel " ) y es parte de la familia de empresas de clear channel , que incluye otras marcas de entretenimiento de calidad tales como la radiodifusión y estaciones de radio por internet , clear channel outdoor , clear channel radio , y las redes de radio premiere , cada una de las cuales opera o administra uno o más sitios web o aplicaciones ( cada uno , un " sitio de clear channel , " y colectivamente " sitios de clear channel " ) .
clear channel ofrece este sitio de clear channel y servicios relacionados para su uso personal solamente y no comercial y usted está sujeto al cumplimiento de este acuerdo de términos de uso ( el " acuerdo " ) .
por favor , lea este acuerdo cuidadosamente antes de usar estos sitios de clear channel .
el uso de estos sitios de clear channel constituye su aceptación a estar obligado a cumplir con el presente acuerdo , sin limitación , restricción o cambio .
si en algún momento usted no acepta todos los términos y condiciones de este acuerdo , usted debe suspender inmediatamente el uso de este sitio de clear channel .
este acuerdo establece las políticas de clear channel con respecto a sus operaciones de los sitios de clear channel .
otras políticas rigen las operaciones no relacionadas con internet de clear channel .
ciertos productos o servicios ofrecidos por éste y / u otros sitios de clear channel ( cada uno , un " servicio de internet de clear channel , " y colectivamente " servicios de internet de clear channel " ) , y ciertas áreas dentro de éste y / u otros sitios de clear channel pueden regirse por términos adicionales ( " términos adicionales " ) presentados junto con esos productos o servicios .
usted debe aceptar los términos adicionales antes de usar esas áreas o servicios de internet de clear channel .
los términos adicionales y este acuerdo , en conjunto , se aplicarán al uso de esas áreas o servicios de internet de clear channel .
en caso de una contradicción irreconciliable entre los términos adicionales y este acuerdo , los términos adicionales prevalecerán .
usted no puede usar cualquier sitio de clear channel para cualquier propósito que sea ilegal o prohibido por este acuerdo y / o cualquier otro término adicional aplicable .
el acceso a cualquier sitio de clear channel puede ser terminado inmediatamente a la sola y absoluta discreción de clear channel , con o sin previo aviso , si usted no cumple con las disposiciones de este acuerdo y / o cualquier término adicional aplicable , o por cualquier otra razón , o sin razón .
al usar este sitio de clear channel , usted declara y garantiza que : ( a ) usted es un residente legal de los estados unidos , ( b ) que está en o por encima de la mayoría de edad legal en su jurisdicción de residencia , ( c ) usted posee o tiene la suficiente autorización para usar la computadora , aparatos móviles , tecnología o cualquier otro aparato que utilice para acceder a este sitio de clear channel ( colectivamente , " aparato " ) , y ( d ) usted tendrá acceso y uso de este sitio de clear channel , de acuerdo con este acuerdo .
algunas partes de este sitio de clear channel pueden tener contenido para adultos destinadas a las personas que están en o por encima de la mayoría de edad legal en su jurisdicción de residencia .
al ver este contenido para adultos , usted asegura que se encuentra en o por encima de la mayoría de edad legal y que el contenido es aceptable para usted .
el software de filtración está disponible comercialmente el cual puede usarse para excluir contenido que no es aceptable para usted .
este software puede impedir la visualización de todo o parte del contenido del sitio de clear channel .
si fuera permitido o disponible a través de la aplicación del servicio de internet de clear channel , ( a ) subir contenido en este sitio de clear channel a través de su teléfono y / o tableta móvil , ( b ) recibir y responder mensajes , o acceder o hacer uso de mensajes de mensajes de texto , ( c ) navegar por este sitio de clear channel desde su teléfono móvil y / o ( d ) acceder a ciertas funciones a través de una aplicación móvil que ha descargado e instalado en su teléfono móvil ( colectivamente " servicios móviles " ) , usted debe tener una suscripción de comunicaciones de teléfonos móviles ( o contar con el consentimiento del suscriptor aplicable ) con una compañía participante o de otra manera tener acceso a una red de comunicaciones móviles por lo que clear channel hace disponible el servicio de internet de clear channel , así como cualquier compañía de servicio necesario para descargar contenido , y pagar las cuotas de servicios asociadas con dicho acceso ( incluyendo los gastos de mensajería de texto para cada mensaje de texto que envía y recibe en su teléfono móvil ) .
además , usted debe proporcionar todos los equipos y software necesarios para conectarse al servicio de internet de clear channel , incluyendo pero no limitado a , si este sitio de clear channel contiene un elemento móvil , un auricular móvil u otro aparato de acceso móvil que está en funcionamiento y adecuado para su uso en relación con el servicio de internet de clear channel y usar cualquier parte de ese servicio .
usted es responsable de garantizar que su equipo y / o software no perturbe o interfiera con clear channel o las operaciones de este sitio de clear channel o el servicio de internet de clear channel .
cualquier equipo o software que cause interferencias se desconectará inmediatamente del servicio de internet de clear channel y clear channel tendrá derecho a rescindir inmediatamente el presente acuerdo .
si alguna actualización o servicio de internet de clear channel requiere cambios en su equipo o software ( incluyendo el sistema operativo para su aparato ) , debe efectuar estos cambios por su propia cuenta .
a menos que se indique expresamente de otra manera , todas las características nuevas o adicionales que aumenten o mejoren el servicio actual de internet de clear channel , incluyendo el lanzamiento de nuevos productos y servicios , estarán sujetas a los términos y condiciones de este acuerdo .
usted se compromete a seguir y cumplir con las leyes aplicables en su uso del servicio de internet de clear channel .
clear channel se reserva el derecho , a su sola y absoluta discreción , de modificar , alterar o cambiar este acuerdo y / o los términos adicionales en cualquier momento .
clear channel ofrecerá un aviso del cambio en este sitio de clear channel .
por favor revise este acuerdo y / o términos adicionales periódicamente para los cambios .
el uso continuado de este sitio de clear channel y / o el servicio de internet de clear channel constituye su aceptación y acuerdo para cumplir con estos cambios , sin limitación , restricción o cambio .
si en algún momento usted no acepta estos cambios , debe suspender inmediatamente el uso de este sitio de clear channel y / o el servicio de internet de clear channel para que puedan aplicar los cambios .
clear channel ha desarrollado una política de privacidad para informarle acerca de sus prácticas con respecto a la recopilación , uso , divulgación y protección de información personal .
usted puede encontrar la política de privacidad , que está incorporada a este acuerdo , haciendo clic aquí , y mediante el uso de este sitio de clear channel está de acuerdo con los términos de la política de privacidad .
si en particular un sitio de clear channel o del servicio de internet de clear channel requiere que abra una cuenta , debe completar el proceso de inscripción especificado facilitándonos la información actualizada , completa y precisa conforme a lo solicitado por el formulario de inscripción en línea correspondiente .
es su responsabilidad mantener la actualización , integridad y exactitud de sus datos de inscripción y cualquier pérdida causada por el hecho de no hacerlo es su responsabilidad .
después de haber completado el formulario de inscripción , se le puede pedir que elija una contraseña y un nombre de usuario .
es enteramente su responsable mantener la confidencialidad de su contraseña y cuenta .
además , usted es completamente responsable de cualquier y toda actividad que ocurra en cuenta .
usted se compromete a notificar a clear channel inmediatamente de cualquier uso no autorizado de su cuenta .
clear channel no se hace responsable de cualquier pérdida que usted pueda incurrir como resultado de que otra persona utilice su contraseña o cuenta , ya sea con o sin su conocimiento .
usted puede cancelar su cuenta notificándolo en la manera prevista en los términos adicionales que rigen el particular servicio de internet de clear channel .
en el acceso y uso de este sitio de clear channel y / o los servicios de internet de clear channel , usted acepta que no podrá : enviar ninguna publicidad no solicitada , materiales promocionales , correos basura , correos electrónicos masivos ( también conocidos como " spam " ) cartas en cadena , encuestas o concursos , o solicitar la participación de los esquemas de pirámide ( a menos que sea en una página que afirme explícitamente que esos mensajes están permitidos en esa página ) .
enviar cualquier publicidad ilegal ( de acuerdo con las leyes o reglamentos locales , estatales , federales o internacionales ) a o a través de este sitio de clear channel , o cualquier publicidad que abogue la actividad ilegal .
enviar o proporcionar enlaces a cualquier publicación que contenga material que pueda considerarse perjudicial , obsceno , pornográfico , indecente , lascivo , violento , abusivo , profano , amenazador , insultante , acosador , odioso o de otra manera censurable .
enviar o proporcionar enlaces a cualquier publicación que contenga material que acose , discrimine , degrade o intimide a una persona o grupo de individuos sobre la base de la religión , raza , etnicidad , orientación sexual , sexo , edad o discapacidad .
enviar o proporcionar enlaces , cualquier publicación que contenga material difamatorio , falso o calumnioso .
enviar cualquier publicación que infrinja o viole cualquier propiedad intelectual u otro derecho de cualquier entidad o persona , incluyendo , sin limitación , derechos de autor , patentes , marcas registradas , las leyes que rigen los secretos comerciales , derechos de privacidad o de publicidad .
enviar cualquier publicidad que usted no tenga derecho a poner disponible según la ley o las relaciones contractuales o fiduciarias .
hacerse pasar por otra persona o entidad o declarar falsamente o de otra manera tergiversar su afiliación con una persona o entidad , o adoptar una identidad falsa si el propósito de hacerlo así es para confundir , engañar , o defraudar a otra persona .
manipular los identificadores , incluyendo la falsificación de encabezados , con el fin de ocultar el origen de cualquier publicidad que usted envíe .
enviar cualquier publicación que contenga información personal , como números de teléfono , números de seguro social , números de cuenta , direcciones o referencias del empleador .
usar el servicio de clear channel de cualquier manera que pudiera dañar , deshabilitar , sobrecargar o deteriorar o interferir con el uso de este sitio de clear channel o aparatos de otros usuarios , o causar daños , interrupción o limitar el funcionamiento de cualquier software , hardware o equipo de telecomunicaciones .
intentar obtener acceso no autorizado a este sitio de clear channel , cualquier sitio web relacionado , a otras cuentas , sistemas de computación o redes conectadas a este sitio de clear channel , a través de piratería , descifre de contraseñas , o de cualquier otra manera .
obtener o intentar obtener cualquier material o información mediante cualquier manera que no sea intencionalmente disponible a través de este sitio de clear channel , incluyendo la recaudación o mediante la recolección de información acerca de otras personas , tales como direcciones de correo electrónico .
excepto cuando se proporcione de otra manera , el acceso a y uso de este sitio de clear channel y los servicios de internet de clear channel ofrecidos a través de la misma están actualmente disponibles sin costo alguno .
clear channel se reserva el derecho de cobrar una cuota por el acceso a o el uso de este sitio de clear channel , o de cualquier servicio de internet de clear channel disponible en este sitio de clear channel en cualquier momento más adelante .
su acceso a o uso de este sitio de clear channel antes de ese momento no le da derecho al uso de este sitio de clear channel sin cargo más adelante .
su uso , y la dependencia de cualquier consejo o información obtenida desde o a través de este sitio de clear channel y / o de servicio interactivo de clear channel es bajo su propio riesgo .
todo el contenido , incluyendo el software , productos , servicios , información , textos y gráficos afines contenidos en este sitio o que están disponibles a través de este sitio de clear channel o de servicio interactivo de clear channel se proporcionan " tal como son " , " según la disponibilidad " .
clear channel no hace representaciones ni garantías de ningún tipo , ni expresa ni implícitamente , en cuanto al funcionamiento de este sitio de clear channel o a la información , contenido o materiales incluidos en este sitio de clear channel .
hasta donde la ley correspondiente lo permita , clear channel se exime de todas las representaciones y garantías de cualquier tipo , ya sea expresa o implícita , incluyendo pero sin limitarse a , las garantías implícitas de comercialización o de calidad satisfactoria , idoneidad para un propósito específico , competencia profesional , el contenido informativo , el título o no violación de los derechos de terceros .
clear channel no garantiza ni hace ninguna representación que este sitio de clear channel funcionará libre de errores o sin interrupciones , que los defectos serán corregidos , o que este sitio de clear channel y / o sus servidores estarán libres de virus y / o de otros componentes dañinos .
clear channel no garantiza ni hace ninguna representación con respecto a la idoneidad , disponibilidad , exactitud , fiabilidad , integridad , o puntualidad de cualquier material de cualquier clase incluido en este sitio de clear channel para cualquier propósito , incluyendo software , productos , servicios , información , textos y gráficos afines de contenido .
clear channel no se hace responsable de los fallos causados por errores de servidor , transmisiones mal dirigidas o redirigidas , errores en las conexiones a internet , interrupciones en la transmisión o recepción de órdenes de venta de boletos o servicios interactivos de clear channel , o cualquier virus informático u otro fallo técnico , ya sea humano o de carácter técnico .
algunas jurisdicciones no permiten la renuncia , exención o limitación de ciertas garantías , responsabilidades y daños , por lo que algunas de estas renuncias , exclusiones y limitaciones pueden no aplicarse a usted .
en dichas jurisdicciones , la responsabilidad de clear channel se limita hasta donde la ley correspondiente lo permita .
en ningún caso clear channel , sus subsidiarias , afiliados , distribuidores , proveedores , concesionarios , agentes u otras personas involucradas en la creación , patrocinio , promoción o difusión pública de este sitio de clear channel y su contenido , serán responsables ante ninguna persona o entidad por daños directos , indirectos , incidentales , especiales , daños compensatorios , consecuentes , o punitivos o daños de ningún tipo , incluyendo pero no limitado a : ( i ) la pérdida de prestigio , beneficios , interrupción de negocios , datos u otras pérdidas intangibles ; ( ii ) su incapacidad de uso , el uso no autorizado , el rendimiento o incumplimiento de este sitio de clear channel ; ( iii ) el acceso no autorizado o la alteración de su información personal o las transmisiones ; ( iv ) la prestación o falta de prestación de cualquier servicio ; ( v ) errores o inexactitudes contenidas en este sitio de clear channel o cualquier información , software , productos , servicios y gráficos afines obtenidos a través de este sitio de clear channel ; ( vi ) cualquier otra transacción realizada a través de este sitio de clear channel ; ( vii ) cualquier daño a la propiedad incluyendo el daño a su aparato o sistema de computación causado por virus u otros componentes dañinos , durante o por el acceso a la cuenta o el uso de este sitio de clear channel o cualquier otro sitio al que se suministran enlaces ; o ( viii ) los daños que se deriven de la utilización de este sitio de clear channel y servicios de internet de clear channel .
las limitaciones de responsabilidad se aplicarán independientemente de la forma de acción , ya sea basado en contrato , agravio , negligencia , responsabilidad estricta o de otra manera , incluso si clear channel ha sido advertida de la posibilidad de daños y perjuicios .
usted acepta indemnizar y mantener indemne a clear channel , sus subsidiarias , agentes , distribuidores y afiliados , y sus funcionarios , directores y empleados de y contra cualquier y todo reclamo , acciones , demandas , responsabilidades , costos y gastos , incluyendo , sin limitación , los honorarios razonables de abogados , resultantes de su incumplimiento de cualquier disposición de este acuerdo , los términos adicionales , o cualquier otra garantía que usted proporcione en este documento , o que surja de cualquier manera del uso de este sitio de clear channel y cualquier uso relacionado con el servicio de internet de clear channel y / o software .
usted se compromete a cooperar plenamente con clear channel para hacer valer cualquier defensa disponible en relación con una reclamación sujeta a indemnización por usted bajo este acuerdo .
clear channel se reserva el derecho , a su sola y absoluta discreción , modificar , suspender o terminar este sitio de clear channel y / o cualquier porción del mismo , incluyendo cualquier servicio de internet de clear channel y / o su cuenta , contraseña , o el uso de servicio de internet de clear channel , o cualquier parte del mismo , en cualquier momento y por cualquier razón con o sin previo aviso .
la terminación de su cuenta de servicio de internet de clear channel retira su autorización para utilizar el servicio de internet de clear channel .
en caso de terminación , usted todavía deberá cumplir con sus obligaciones por medio del presente acuerdo y los términos adicionales , incluyendo las garantías hechas por usted , y por las renuncias y limitaciones de responsabilidad .
además , clear channel no será responsable ante usted ni ante terceros por alguna terminación de su acceso a un servicio de internet de clear channel .
este sitio de clear channel puede contener enlaces a sitios web , aplicaciones u otros servicios operados por terceros ( los " sitios enlazados " ) .
clear channel no supervisa ni controla los sitios enlazados y no hace ninguna representación relativa , y no es responsable por la exactitud , integridad , puntualidad , confiabilidad o disponibilidad de cualquiera de los contenidos cargados , mostrados , ni distribuidos , ni de los productos o servicios disponibles en los sitios enlazados .
si usted decide acceder a cualquier sitio de terceros ( incluyendo cualquier sitio enlazado ) , usted lo hará bajo su propio riesgo , y el uso de ese sitio estará sujeto a sus propios términos de uso y política de privacidad , que deberá revisar .
la presencia de un enlace a un sitio de terceros no constituye o implica la aprobación , el patrocinio o la recomendación de clear channel a terceros o a los contenidos , productos o servicios contenidos o disponibles a través del sitio .
cualquier software que se pone a disposición para acceso , uso , ver y / o descargar en relación con un sitio de clear channel o el servicio de internet de clear channel ( " software " ) , incluyendo aplicaciones , podcasts , streaming de audio o streaming de video , es propiedad o está controlado por clear channel y / o licenciantes , afiliados y proveedores y está protegido por leyes de derechos de autor y por tratados internacionales .
el uso del software se limita al uso privado , no comercial y se rige por los términos del acuerdo de licencia del usuario final , si los hubiere , que acompaña o se incluye con el software .
clear channel no asume responsabilidad alguna en relación con cualquier software de su propiedad o por los que estén controlados por terceros .
el acceso a los materiales en este sitio de clear channel por ciertas personas en ciertos países puede ser ilegal , y clear channel no garantiza que los materiales de este sitio de clear channel sean apropiados o disponibles para su uso en lugares fuera de los estados unidos .
si decide acceder a este sitio de clear channel desde fuera de estados unidos , lo hace bajo su propio riesgo e iniciativa , y usted es responsable de cumplir con las leyes locales correspondientes .
los estados unidos controla la exportación de cualquier software descargable desde este sitio de clear channel .
sin la necesidad de software o cualquier otro material asociado a este sitio de clear channel se puede descargar , exportar o reexportar a países o personas prohibidas por las leyes de control de exportación , incluyendo pero no limitado a los países contra los que estados unidos haya embargado bienes , o a cualquier persona en la lista de nacionales especialmente designados y personas bloqueadas del departamento del tesoro de los estados unidos , o de la lista de negación de órdenes del departamento de comercio de los ee.uu. usted es responsable de cumplir con las leyes de su jurisdicción local con respecto a la importación , exportación o reexportación de dichos materiales .
al utilizar y / o descargar cualquier material de parte de un sitio de clear channel , usted declara y garantiza que no se encuentra bajo el control de algún ciudadano o residente de tal país en el cual este tipo de importación , exportación o reexportación está prohibido o no es una persona o entidad a la que esta exportación está prohibida .
este sitio de clear channel puede permitirle ordenar y recibir los productos , información y servicios de las empresas que no son propiedad o que no están operadas por clear channel .
la compra , pago , garantía , avalúo , entrega , mantenimiento , y todos los demás asuntos relativos a la mercancía , servicio o información , opinión o consejo pedido o recibido de estas empresas son exclusivamente entre usted y estas empresas .
clear channel no aprueba , avalúa o garantiza estos productos , información o servicios , y no es responsable de la exactitud , integridad o uso de dicha información o la calidad de la disponibilidad de dichos productos o servicios .
clear channel no será parte o de ninguna manera responsable de supervisar cualquier transacción entre usted y terceros proveedores de tales productos , servicios o información , o para asegurar la confidencialidad de su información de tarjeta de crédito .
los distintos cargos u obligaciones que usted incurra en su relación con estos terceros son de su responsabilidad y no son parte de la cuota , en su caso , que se cobra por el servicio de internet de clear channel .
clear channel puede exhibir anuncios publicitarios para los bienes y servicios de terceros en los sitios de clear channel , incluso en relación con copromociones , patrocinios y otros acuerdos de colaboración similares .
clear channel no aprueba ni representa y no es responsable de la seguridad , calidad , exactitud , confiabilidad , integridad o legalidad de tales bienes o servicios anunciados , promovidos o exhibidos en este sitio de clear channel .
usted puede ser invitado o se le puede pedir que acuda a eventos patrocinados por clear channel o eventos realizados por otros miembros y usuarios de este sitio de clear channel , que no están de ninguna manera asociados con clear channel en diversos lugares de todo estados unidos ( colectivamente , " eventos " ) .
su participación en estos eventos es bajo su propio riesgo y usted acepta liberar y eximir a clear channel , sus subsidiarias , agentes , distribuidores y afiliados , y a sus funcionarios , directores y empleados de y contra cualquiera y todas las reclamaciones , acciones , demandas , responsabilidades , costos y gastos , incluyendo , sin limitación , cualquier lesión o muerte a usted o a sus hijos menores o tutelados , como resultado de asistir a los eventos o por la participación en las actividades disponibles en los eventos .
también está de acuerdo en que es posible que podamos filmar y grabar cualquiera de los eventos patrocinados por clear channel en el que usted o sus hijos menores o tutelados participen y usted acepta que tales videos y grabaciones serán propiedad de clear channel y que podemos utilizar su nombre o el nombre de sus hijos menores o tutelados , semejanza , voz , actuación y otras actividades en las que usted o sus hijos menores o tutelados participen para fines publicitarios , promocionales y de otro propósito legal en cualquier y todos los medios ahora o más adelante conocidos en todo el mundo en perpetuidad sin previo aviso , aprobación o compensación alguna para usted o terceros .
este sitio de clear channel puede ofrecer ciertos servicios de internet de clear channel con componentes interactivos tales como tableros de anuncios , salas de chats , blogs y foros ( colectivamente , " servicios interactivos de clear channel " ) .
los términos adicionales pueden cubrir los servicios de internet de clear channel , que aparecen en las páginas donde estos servicios están disponibles , además de los términos generales que aparecen a continuación .
la selección de los servicios disponibles de internet de clear channel puede cambiar de vez en cuando a la sola y absoluta discreción de clear channel .
usted puede participar en el servicio interactivo de clear channel completando el formulario de inscripción , cuando éste se proporcione .
clear channel no controla y no es responsable de ninguna de las notas , mensajes , tablero de mensajes , ideas , sugerencias , conceptos u otro material , o archivos entregados a un sitio de clear channel por usted u otros usuarios ( colectivamente , " materiales del usuario " ) .
clear channel no está obligado y regularmente no revisa , preselecciona , controla , elimina o modifica los materiales del usuario .
sin embargo , clear channel se reserva el derecho de hacerlo en cualquier momento y a su sola y absoluta discreción , por cualquier razón o sin razón , y de rechazar , eliminar , mover o editar cualquier material de usuario , en todo o en parte , con o sin previo aviso .
clear channel no se hace responsable por daños y perjuicios de ningún tipo derivados de cualquier material del usuario , incluso cuando clear channel es advertido de la posibilidad de tales daños , o de la alteración o eliminación de clear channel de los materiales del usuario usted es el único responsable de todos los materiales del usuario entregados a este sitio de clear channel utilizando su cuenta .
cualquier violación de estas disposiciones puede someter su cuenta de clear channel a la terminación inmediata y , posiblemente , a más acciones legales .
usted manifiesta y garantiza que posee o controla todos los derechos y los materiales del usuario y que la publicación y el uso de los materiales del usuario por clear channel no infringirán ni violarán los derechos de terceros en ninguna manera .
al enviar , transmitir , publicar , cargar , modificar o de otra manera proporcionar cualquier material del usuario en relación con este sitio de clear channel y / o un servicio interactivo de clear channel , ya sea solicitado o no solicitado , usted está otorgando permiso a clear channel y a sus representantes libre de regalías , totalmente pagadas , no exclusivas , irrevocables , perpetuo , licencia sin restricciones a nivel mundial para reproducir , publicar , transmitir , reproducir , publicar , sublicenciar , crear trabajos derivados y usar material del usuario para cualquier propósito , incluyendo , sin limitación , con fines publicitarios y promocionales , solos o como parte de otros trabajos en cualquier manera , medios de comunicación o tecnología conocida ahora o más adelante .
sin crédito , aprobación o compensación que se le deba a usted por ese uso de los materiales del usuario que usted puede presentar .
clear channel también tiene el derecho , pero no la obligación , de usar su nombre de usuario ( y el nombre verdadero , imagen , semejanza u otra información de identificación , si se proporciona en relación con los materiales del usuario ) , ciudad y estado en relación con la transmisión , impresión , internet u otro uso o publicación del material del usuario .
tenga en cuenta que cualquier material del usuario que envíe es y será tratado como no confidencial y no propietario en lo referente a usted , a menos que expresamente se especifique de otra manera en nuestra política de privacidad .
la información y opiniones expresadas en los materiales del usuario que aparecen en este sitio de clear channel no son necesariamente las de clear channel o sus proveedores de contenido , anunciantes , patrocinadores , afiliados o entidades relacionadas , y clear channel no hace representaciones o garantías con respecto a esa información o a esas opiniones , y expresamente renuncia a cualquier responsabilidad por los materiales del usuario .
clear channel no representa ni garantiza la veracidad , exactitud o confiabilidad de cualquier material del usuario ni determina si los materiales del usuario violan los derechos de los demás , y clear channel no tiene ningún control sobre si dichos materiales del usuario son de tipo que usted u otros usuarios pueden encontrar ofensivos , desagradables o inaceptables .
usted reconoce que cualquier incumplimiento en cualquier material del usuario enviado por otros usuarios , será bajo su propio riesgo , incluyendo el cumplimiento en la exactitud , integridad o utilidad de los materiales del usuario .
usted reconoce que este sitio de clear channel es " público " , y además de la licencia concedida a clear channel , otros usuarios tendrán acceso a sus materiales del usuario y pueden copiarlos , modificarlos o distribuirlos .
si usted tiene conocimiento de cualquier material del usuario de este sitio de clear channel , que viole estos términos , por favor comuníquese con nosotros en support @ iheartradio.com.
por favor , proporcione todos los detalles posibles , incluyendo una copia del material subyacente , el lugar donde clear channel pueda encontrarlo , y la razón por la cual dicho material del usuario debe ser eliminado .
tenga en cuenta que la presentación de una queja no garantiza su eliminación , clear channel sólo eliminará los materiales del usuario si clear channel considera que es necesario , a nuestra sola y absoluta discreción .
en la medida que cualquier notificación se basa en una supuesta violación de derechos de autor , por favor , siga las instrucciones establecidas en la sección titulada " violación a los derechos de autor " .
excepto a los que específicamente solicitamos , no aceptamos o consideramos materiales creativos no solicitados , ideas o sugerencias ya sea a través de este sitio de clear channel , correo electrónico u otros medios .
esto es para evitar cualquier malentendido si sus ideas son similares a las que hemos desarrollado u obtenido de manera independiente .
sin embargo , si usted todavía nos transmite , a través de este sitio de clear channel , por correo electrónico o de otra manera , cualquier comunicación o material no solicitado , se le considerará que nos ha concedido los mismos derechos que se establecen en esta sección con respecto a los materiales del usuario .
sin limitación de la misma , usted acepta que clear channel , nuestros afiliados y nuestros concesionarios son libres de usar cualquier idea , concepto , conocimientos o técnicas contenidas en cualquier comunicación que usted nos envíe para cualquier propósito , incluyendo pero no limitado a , desarrollo , fabricación y comercialización de productos , servicios y contenido utilizando dicha información , sin ningún tipo de crédito , previo aviso , aprobación o compensación alguna para usted .
programas de referencia y oportunidades para " enviar a un amigo " el sitio de clear channel puede ofrecer programas de referencia que le permite enviar información acerca de otras personas ( cada uno , una " persona referida " ) , incluyendo , sin limitación , direcciones de correo electrónico con sede en ee.uu. , números de teléfono móvil , los nombres , direcciones y otra información de contacto para que puedan recibir información y / o ofertas promocionales sobre el servicio de internet de clear channel .
sólo puede referir a las personas con quienes tiene una relación personal .
usted debe haber obtenido el consentimiento de la persona referida antes de proporcionarnos la información de contacto .
nos reservamos el derecho de limitar el número de las personas referidas que puede enviar .
nos reservamos el derecho de limitar el número de transmisiones a cualquier persona en particular de vez en cuando .
usted no puede retirar la información de contacto que proporcione de las personas referidas , una vez que se ha presentado .
una persona referida debe ser un residente permanente legal de los estados unidos continentales , por lo menos 18 años de edad ( o 19 años si es un residente de alabama o nebraska , o 21 años si es un residente de mississippi ) , y poder registrarse para el servicio de internet de clear channel , o utilizar el servicio de internet de clear channel .
la información de contacto de una persona referida debe ser válida y estar funcionando para que podamos comunicarnos con él o ella acera del servicio de internet de clear channel .
no nos hacemos responsables de validar la información de contacto que proporcione .
podemos optar por no comunicarnos con la persona referida y / o con la dirección de correo electrónico si él / ella / ello parece estar en cualquiera de nuestras listas de " no contactar " o " no enviar correo electrónico " .
además , nos reservamos el derecho de rechazar la participación de cualquier persona referida , si ( a ) la información de contacto proporcionada por usted es incorrecta o no es válida , ( b ) dicha persona ha violado cualquier disposición de estos términos o condiciones , o ( c ) , según nuestro criterio , que la participación de dicha persona podría ser perjudicial para nosotros , este sitio de clear channel , los servicios de internet de clear channel , o a terceros por cualquier razón .
específicamente , renunciamos a cualquier responsabilidad derivada para que se cumpla tal derecho .
es posible que , a nuestro criterio , le enviemos una confirmación con todos los medios disponibles a través del servicio de internet de clear channel , incluyendo correo electrónico , texto y otros formularios de mensajería , para informarle de que la persona referida se ha registrado en el servicio de internet de clear channel .
si le enviamos la confirmación a usted a través la compañía de servicio con la cual usted tiene una suscripción de comunicación móvil o de otra manera tiene acceso , usted entiende que usted pagará las cuotas por servicios asociados con dicho acceso ( incluyendo los gastos de mensajería de texto en relación con los mensajes a tu aparato móvil ) .
si hace mal uso de cualquier programa de referencia o de otra manera participa en una conducta impropia con respecto a un programa de referencia , como determinemos en nuestro criterio , nos reservamos el derecho a interrumpir su servicio de internet de clear channel .
es posible que de vez en cuando podemos ofrecer incentivos o recompensas en relación con un programa de referencia , y cualquier programa de incentivos o recompensas debe estar sujeto a términos adicionales que serán publicados en el momento en que este tipo de programas estén disponibles y se consideraren incorporados y sujetos al presente acuerdo .
nos reservamos el derecho , según nuestro criterio , de suspender , temporal o permanentemente , o dejar de proporcionar cualquier y todos los programas de referencia sin previo aviso , razón o responsabilidad .
si usted está utilizando el servicio de internet de clear channel para comunicarse con una persona referida ( o terceros ) , se compromete a no utilizar los servicios de internet de clear channel para hacer daño a la persona referida o a terceros , y / o usar a clear channel como servicio de internet en violación de las leyes pertinentes , normas o reglamentos , o los términos y condiciones de este acuerdo .
para alguna de las características de votación y clasificación que están disponibles en este sitio de clear channel , debe seguir las instrucciones en este sitio de clear channel para enviar sus votos / calificaciones , así como las restricciones establecidas con respecto a las limitaciones sobre la votación / clasificación .
los votos / clasificaciones recibidas en exceso de cualquier limitación indicada serán descalificadas .
está prohibido el pago u otras consideraciones a cambio de votos / clasificaciones .
los votos / clasificaciones generadas por escritura , macro u otros medios automatizados o cualquier otro medio con la intención de afectar la integridad del proceso de votación y clasificación según lo determinado por nosotros puede ser nulo .
clear channel no asume ninguna responsabilidad por información incorrecta / inexacta de votación y clasificación o por cualquier error , omisión , interrupción , eliminación , defecto , demora en la operación o transmisión , falla de línea de comunicación , robo o destrucción o acceso no autorizado , o alteración de votos / clasificaciones .
nosotros podemos , a nuestro criterio , modificar , terminar o suspender la votación / clasificación o anular cualquier voto / clasificación si un virus , error , intervención humana no autorizada , la acción de los votantes / evaluador , u otra causa corrupta o que afecte la administración , la seguridad , o la imparcialidad de la votación / clasificación .
nos reservamos el derecho , a nuestra sola y absoluta discreción para descalificar a cualquier persona que se encuentre en una violación de estos términos , manipulación con el proceso de votación / clasificación , o actuando de una manera incorrecta o impropia y de anular todos los votos / clasificaciones asociadas .
nuestras decisiones con respecto a todos los aspectos de cualquier elemento de la votación / clasificación son definitivas y vinculantes , pero no limitado a , con respecto al recuento de votos / clasificaciones y la invalidación o descalificación de cualquier de voto / clasificación o votantes / evaluadores sospechosos .
también se puede dar la oportunidad de participar en las características de votación / clasificación en una aplicación o característica de terceros ( por ejemplo , uno de nuestros socios de los medios de comunicación social como facebook o twitter ) , en cuyo caso su participación en dichas funciones , estará sujeto a los términos y las condiciones que rigen la aplicación o función de terceros .
este sitio de clear channel puede ofrecer ciertos servicios de suscripción de clear channel , tales como boletines de noticias y alimentaciones de sindicación simple verdadera ( " rss " , por sus siglas en inglés ) ( colectivamente , " servicios de suscripción de clear channel " ) .
al registrarse en un servicio de suscripción de clear channel , usted estará sujeto a los cargos y las normas establecidas en la descripción de ese servicio que pueden o no pueden verse reflejadas en los términos adicionales .
algunos servicios de internet de clear channel en este sitio de clear channel , incluyendo algunos servicios interactivos de clear channel y servicios de suscripción , pueden ofrecerse al usuario condicionados por el pago de una cuota ( cada uno , un " servicio premium de clear channel " ) .
al utilizar el servicio premium de clear channel , usted estará sujeto a los cargos y las normas establecidas en los términos adicionales para ese servicio , además de las condiciones generales que aparecen a continuación .
usted puede registrarse completando el formulario de inscripción correspondiente .
usted es responsable de cualquier nombre de usuario y la contraseña que esté asociada con su cuenta durante la inscripción .
si este servicio premium no reconoce el aparato desde una versión anterior de inicio de sesión , se le pedirá la información que nos ayudará a identificar su inscripción .
es su responsabilidad mantener la confidencialidad de su contraseña , si se establece .
usted es el único responsable de cualquier y toda actividad que ocurra en su cuenta y se compromete a notificar inmediatamente cualquier uso no autorizado de su cuenta .
clear channel se le notificará de los cargos , o cargos adicionales , antes de registrarse o entrar en un área premium .
usted es responsable de todos los cargos de contenido premium incurridos por su cuenta .
no nos hacemos responsables de ninguna pérdida en la que usted pueda incurrir como resultado de que otra persona utilice su contraseña o cuenta , ya sea con o sin su conocimiento .
en caso de que usted pague por un servicio premium con tarjeta de crédito , usted nos autoriza a cargar su tarjeta de crédito al registrarse en el servicio y proporcionándonos la información de su tarjeta de crédito .
usted nos garantiza que la información de su tarjeta de crédito que usted nos brinda es correcta y es su cuenta .
cualquier servicio premium es solamente para su uso personal y no comercial .
usted no puede modificar , copiar , distribuir , transmitir , mostrar , realizar , reproducir , publicar , licenciar , crear trabajos derivados , transferir ni vender ninguna información , software , productos obtenidos de este servicio premium sin nuestro consentimiento previo por escrito .
usted puede preguntar cómo obtener nuestro permiso por escrito para mostrar o reproducir el material de este sitio de clear channel escribiendo a : usted puede cancelar su membresía en este servicio premium en cualquier momento poniéndose en contacto con nosotros usando la información de contacto proporcionada en este servicio premium .
en caso de que usted haya pagado una cuota para registrarse en este sitio de clear channel y cancela antes de finalizar su período de suscripción , no devolveremos ninguna parte de su cuota de membresía , siempre que usted tenga derecho a continuar accediendo el sitio de clear channel correspondiente hasta finalizar su período de afiliación .
nos reservamos el derecho de terminar su acceso a este servicio premium o cualquier parte del mismo en cualquier momento y sin previo aviso .
tras dicha terminación , le regresaremos la parte prorrateada no utilizada de su cuota en 52 semanas de manera prorrateada en un plazo de noventa ( 90 ) días siguientes a la terminación de su acceso a este servicio .
usted puede enviar por correo electrónico sus solicitudes de servicio al cliente a través de la información de contacto proporcionada en la página de inicio del servicio premium correspondiente .
cualquier sorteo , concurso , juego y / u oferta promocional accesible en este sitio de clear channel se rige por normas específicas y / o términos y condiciones .
al participar en un sorteo o concurso o participar en tales juegos u ofertas promocionales disponibles en este sitio de clear channel , estará sujeto a las normas y / o términos y condiciones .
es muy importante que lea las normas aplicables y / o los términos y condiciones , que están enlazadas desde la página o actividad en particular .
en la medida de cualquier conflicto entre las normas y / o términos y condiciones y estos términos , las normas y / o términos y condiciones para el concurso , juego u oferta promocional se regirán , pero sólo en la medida del conflicto .
cualquier sorteo , concurso , juego y / u oferta promocional accesible o anunciada en sitios web de terceros accesibles desde este sitio de clear channel ( como los socios de los medios sociales como facebook y twitter ) , además de estar sujetos a las normas específicas y / o términos y condiciones aplicables por su participación en dicha función ( es ) en este sitio de clear channel , también estará sujeto a las normas y / o términos y condiciones aplicables por su participación en dicha función ( es ) en los sitios de terceros .
este acuerdo y los términos adicionales se regirán , interpretarán y aplicarán de conformidad con las leyes del estado de nueva york , tal como se aplica a los contratos celebrados y ejecutados en su totalidad dentro de dicho estado , sin tener en cuenta conflictos de principios legales .
usted acepta que todas las disputas , reclamos y causas de acción que surjan o se relacionen con este acuerdo y / o los términos adicionales , o en relación con cualquier asunto relacionado con este sitio de clear channel y / o la política de privacidad , se resolverán individualmente , sin recurrir a ninguna forma de demanda colectiva , exclusivamente en los tribunales estatales o federales ubicados en el condado de nueva york , nueva york .
usted acepta someterse a la jurisdicción de los tribunales del estado de nueva york por cualquier causa de acción que surja de este acuerdo .
usted se compromete a presentar cualquier causa de acción con respecto a este acuerdo dentro de un año después de la causa de la acción .
usted acepta que una causa de acción presentada después de esta fecha está prohibió .
si alguna disposición de este acuerdo , o su aplicación a cualquier persona o circunstancia , se anulará o por cualquier razón , incluyendo inaplicable , pero no limitado a , las renuncias de garantía y limitaciones de responsabilidad , entonces dicha disposición se considerará sustituida por una válida , aplicable que coincida , en la mayor medida posible , la disposición original , y las demás disposiciones del presente acuerdo permanecerán en pleno vigor y efecto .
el incumplimiento de cualquiera de las partes para insistir en el cumplimiento estricto de cualquier provisión de este acuerdo no se interpretará como renuncia de ningún derecho o disposición .
a menos que se disponga expresamente otra cosa , este acuerdo es el acuerdo completo entre usted y clear channel con respecto al uso de este sitio de clear channel y no será modificado excepto por escrito , firmado por un representante autorizado de clear channel .
si usted tiene alguna pregunta relacionada con este acuerdo , usted puede enviarla por correo electrónico a support @ iheartradio.com.
usted debe enviar toda la correspondencia oficial por correo postal a : el sitio de clear channel , y todo su contenido , incluyendo pero no limitado a los artículos , otros textos , fotografías , imágenes , ilustraciones , gráficos , material de video , material de audio , incluyendo composiciones musicales y grabaciones de sonido , software , logotipos de clear channel , títulos , personajes , nombres , gráficos e iconos de botón ( colectivamente " propiedad intelectual " ) , están protegidos por derechos de autor , marcas registradas y otras leyes de los estados unidos , así como las convenciones internacionales y las leyes de otros países .
la propiedad intelectual es propiedad o está controlada por clear channel o por otras partes que han ofrecido los mismos derechos a clear channel .
usted no puede , y acepta que no , reproducirá , descargará , licenciará , publicará , entrará en una base de datos , mostrará , modificará , creará trabajos derivados , transmitirá , publicará , distribuirá o ejecutará públicamente por ningún medio , método o proceso conocido ahora o desarrollado más tarde , descompilará , realizará ingeniería inversa , desmontará , usará en otro entorno de la informática , transferirá o venderá ninguna propiedad intelectual , información , software o productos obtenidos de este sitio de clear channel , en su totalidad o en parte , sin la previa autorización por escrito de clear channel .
otras marcas registradas , marcas de servicio , nombres de productos y nombres de empresas o logotipos que aparecen en este sitio de clear channel , que no son propiedad de clear channel y no pueden ser utilizados sin la previa autorización de sus dueños .
además , a menos que esté expresamente permitido , los sitios web no pueden enlazar , ya sea a través de hipervínculos o de otra manera , a cualquier otra página más allá de la página de inicio de este sitio de clear channel , o marco de este sitio de clear channel , o cualquier otra página web o material en este documento , ni puede incluir un enlace a ninguna entidad a cualquier aspecto de este sitio de clear channel en un correo electrónico con fines comerciales , sin la autorización expresa por escrito de clear channel .
además , a menos que esté expresamente permitido , usted se compromete a no vincular la propiedad intelectual de clear channel , con el fin de hacer que usted o cualquier otra persona acceda a la propiedad intelectual de clear channel a través de este sitio de clear channel .
usted puede preguntar cómo obtener el permiso por escrito a : clear channel respeta los derechos de propiedad intelectual de terceros , y cumple con los términos de la ley digital millennium copyright ( dmca , por sus siglas en inglés ) en relación con tales derechos .
al enviar cualquier material o fotografías a través de este sitio de clear channel , usted concede permiso para tener este material publicado en este sitio de clear channel , y representa que usted es el propietario legítimo de los materiales presentados , y que nadie más puede reclamar derechos de este material .
clear channel se reserva el derecho de eliminar el acceso a material infractor .
estas acciones no afectan ni modifican cualquier otro derecho que clear channel puede tener por ley o contrato .
usted puede encontrar nuestros procedimientos para dar aviso de alguna presunta infracción de los derechos de autor a continuación .
procedimiento para efectuar una reclamación de infracción de derechos de autor si usted cree que su trabajo ha sido copiado de alguna manera que constituya una violación a los derechos de autor , usted debe enviar una notificación por escrito de la misma , en conformidad con las disposiciones de la ley digital millennium copyright , a nuestro agente designado , que lo puede contactar de la siguiente manera : de conformidad con 17 u.s.c. & sect ; 512 ( c ) , para ser efectiva , la notificación debe incluir lo siguiente : ( i ) una firma física o electrónica de una persona autorizada para actuar en nombre del propietario de un derecho exclusivo presuntamente infringido . ( ii ) la identificación del trabajo cuyo derecho de autor han sido infringido , o , en caso de múltiples trabajos en un solo sitio en línea están cubiertos por una sola notificación , una lista representativa de tales trabajos en ese sitio . ( iii ) la identificación del material que se reclama haber sido infringido o ser objeto de actividad fraudulenta y que debe eliminarse o accederse para deshabilitarse , e información razonablemente suficiente para permitir que clear channel localice el material . ( iv ) la información razonablemente suficiente para permitir que clear channel se ponga en contacto con la parte demandante , tales como dirección , número de teléfono y , si está disponible , una dirección de correo electrónico . ( v ) una declaración de que la parte demandante tiene una creencia de buena fe que el uso del material descrito en la reclamación no está autorizado por el propietario del derecho de autor , su agente o la ley . ( vi ) una declaración de que la información contenida en la notificación es exacta , y bajo pena de perjurio , la parte demandante está autorizada para actuar en nombre del propietario de un derecho exclusivo presuntamente infringido .
este proceso se refiere únicamente a la presentación de una demanda de infracción de derechos de autor .
los mensajes relacionados con otros asuntos no recibirán una respuesta a través de este proceso .
este acuerdo fue modificado la última vez el 9 de noviembre de 2011 . diocese of duluth - catholic church in northeastern minnesota windhoek – the year 2013 will always be remembered by namibian farmers as one of the toughest and most challenging periods in 30 years due to the debilitating and devastating drought still threatening the agricultural sector and the country ’ s food security .
mali + 4 others l ’ école est paralysée dans le nord du mali , constate une mission conjointe de l ’ unesco et du gouvernement malien l ’ occupation des régions du nord du mali par des groupes armés a eu de graves conséquences sur le système éducatif .
elle s ’ est traduite par la quasi paralysie du système éducatif dans l ’ académie de tombouctou .
a gao et kidal , la rentrée n ’ a pu avoir lieu .
c ’ est ce qu ’ a pu constater une mission conjointe de l ’ unesco et du gouvernement malien qui s ’ est rendue sur place du 18 au 23 octobre .
mali + 3 others maghreb / sahel : les etats s & # 039 ; engagent à renforcer leur coopération sécuritaire rabat , 14 novembre 2013 ( afp ) - les représentants d 'une vingtaine de pays , dont de nombreux ministres , ont décidé jeudi à rabat de créer un centre de formation pour la sécurité des frontières , et exhorté à davantage de coopération face aux menaces sécuritaires pesant sur le maghreb et le sahel .
delegates hailed the proposal in the " rabat declaration " adopted by 19 countries at a conference in morocco 's capital as an important step towards curbing jihadist unrest in the sahara , notably in mali and libya .
niamey , 30 octobre 2013 ( afp ) - les cadavres de 87 migrants ont été retrouvés mercredi dans le désert nigérien , à une dizaine de kilomètres de la frontière algérienne , a-t-on appris de sources concordantes .
ces victimes ( 7 hommes , 32 femmes et 48 enfants ) s 'ajoutent aux 5 femmes et fillettes issues du même groupe de clandestins , dont les dépouilles avaient été découvertes précédemment par l 'armée nigérienne , a affirmé une source sécuritaire haut placée .
niamey , 28 octobre 2013 ( afp ) - au moins 35 migrants nigériens en route pour l 'algérie , en majorité des femmes et des enfants , sont morts de soif dans le désert au niger , ont annoncé lundi à l 'afp des autorités locales .
" l 'un d 'entre nous a vu sa femme et ses 9 enfants mourir " , a raconté sadafiou , un rescapé d 'une trentaine d 'années qui a perdu trois de ses proches dans le voyage , à la radio privée sahara fm .
apr .
2009 : stewardship calls for being attentive to the needs of others please contact ferne freiberg at pjfjf @ aol.com for changes to the wccw directory dr. john weidner had his annual review at the regular meeting of the parshall school board on thursday .
this year weidner received what could be looked at as a " silver star " instead of a " gold star " for his performance .
top storiesnews near youindiaworldbusinesstechnologyentertainmentfarooq shaikhshahrukh khankim kardashiankareena kapoorsalman khandeepika padukonekate winsletrani mukerjikatrina kaifalok nathsportssciencehealthmore top storiesspotlighttop storiesnews near youindiaworldbusinesstechnologyentertainmentsportssciencehealthmore top storiesspotlightentertainmentindiatimes.comsee realtime coveragefirst look : srk , deepika padukone in happy new yearindiatimes.com- & lrm ; 44 minutes ago & lrm ; shah rukh khan kept his promise and unveiled the first poster of his upcoming diwali release happy new year on the first day of 2014.related shahrukh khan shaam in purampokkugalatta.comthree for a teamthe hinduopinion : shaam joins arya and vijay sethupathitimes of india - by venkateswaran lakshmisee all 5 sourcesrelated shaam bollywood celebs in tears at farooq sheikh 's funeralhindustan timesfarooq sheikh buried in mumbaiglamshamopinion : farooque sheikh 's last rites to take place monday eveningtimes of indiain-depth : actor farooq sheikh laid to resteconomic timeswikipedia : farooq sheikhsee all 507 sourcesrelated farooq shaikh kareena kapoor loved saif ali khan in bullett rajadaily bhaskarkareena kapoor endorses pakistan 's most expensive mobile brandtotal filmysee all 39 sourcesrelated kareena kapoor suchitra sen stable , under continuous monitoringpinkvilladoctors concerned with suchitra 's fluctuating heart ratepress trust of indiain-depth : doctors concerned with suchitra sen 's fluctuating heart rateeconomic timessee all 12 sourcesrelated suchitra sen getting corny with ' mr joe b carvalho 'gulfnews.combollywood epic vs comedy on box office fridayzee newssee all 25 sourcesrelated arshad warsi ajaz khan : i want to be friends with gauahar but kushal will not let meindian express 'bigg boss 7 ' : kushal , gauahar celebrate new year in goazee news - by aparna mudisee all 12 sourcesrelated kushal tandon actress vidya balan turns 36indiabloomswishing vidya balan a very happy birthdayparda phashin-depth : vidya balan 's style evolution : from drab to fab ! indian expresssee all 7 sourcesrelated vidya balan deepika padukone replaced kareena kapoor in sooraj barjatya 's next ? daily bhaskardeepika padukone approached for sooraj barjatya 's next with salman khanindian expresssee all 36 sourcesrelated deepika padukone virat kohli returns home , rushes to actress anushka sharma 's flat to celebrate ... daily bhaskarvirat kohli ring in 2014 with girlfriend anushka sharmabollywood mantrasee all 14 sourcesrelated virat kohli business of cinemasee realtime coveragewould rani mukerji & aditya chopra finally say i do in 2014 ? business of cinema- & lrm ; 1 hour ago & lrm ; yes , this could be the wedding of the year 2014 , when aditya chopra and rani mukerji would finally say i do .
the rumour has spread like wild fire , that the head honcho of yash raj film , aditya chopra is finally set to get knotty with rani mukerji.related rani mukerji did you know ? : rani mukerji might wed aditya chopra in jodhpurthe express tribunerani mukherji 's wedding in february 2014 ? ? ? indiaglitzsee all 26 sourcesrelated rani mukerji sonu sood meets with an accidentbollywood mantrasonu sood 's audi q7 catches firejagran postopinion : sonu sood 's audi q7 catches fire on we highwaytimes of indiasee all 16 sourcesrelated sonu sood alok nath getting the fame through flooded post and memes in twitter and ... aeg indiafan of rajinikanth jokes ?
try out the new trend - alok nath rib ticklers ! zee newsopinion : is alok nath the next rajinikanth ? times of indiawikipedia : alok nathsee all 15 sourcesrelated alok nath of privacy and our company will act accordingly .
see faqsresmi gazete haberleri online abonelike-gazetehoşgeldi̇n 201401 ocak 2014 çarşambaanasayfaekonomifinansdış haberlerpolitikatoplumsektörlerkategori̇lerfinansne , nerede , ne zamangündembi̇k i̇lanlarıdünya ihtdış i̇lişkileremtiai̇şletme-yönetimmevzuatnews in englishgüncelyorum i̇ncelemebölgelerdenözel dosyalarresmi gazetetiger monitorbankacılık sektörübilişimdemir-çelik sektörüenerji sektörügıda sektörühaberleşme sektörühizmetleri̇nşaat sektörükimya-petrokimya sektörümadencilik sektörümağazacılık-perakendecilik sektörümedya sektörüotomotiv sektörüplastik-kauçuk sektörüsanayisavunma sanayiisigortacılık sektörütarım ve hayvancılıktaşımacılık sektörütekstil sektörüturizm sektörü17 : 48 - putinden , gül ve erdoğana yeni yıl mesajı17 : 32 - yılın yazar , fikir insanı ve sanatçıları açıklandı17 : 29 - filistinin prag büyükelçisi hayatını kaybetti17 : 24 - bulgaristanda asgari ücret 340 leva oldu17 : 22 - türkiye , avrupa ’ nın 11. zengini ! 17 : 16 - kuzu paralel devlet twitlerine açıklama getirdi17 : 15 - ötv artışı sektörü kötü etkileyecek16 : 38 - sayıştay tcdd raporu : gerekirse soruşturulsun16 : 03 - resmi burslu öğrencilere yeni yıl sürprizi15 : 54 - fakıbabadan türgeve 3 milyon liralık arsaresmi gazeteresmi gazetesayı : 28868resmî gazetesayi : 28867resmî gazetesayi : 288662014 bütçesi resmi gazete 'deresmî gazetesayi : 28864resmî gazetesayi : 28863resmî gazetesayi : 28862resmî gazetesayi : 28861resmî gazetesayi : 28860resmî gazetesayi : 28857resmî gazetesayi : 28856resmî gazetesayi : 28855resmî gazetesayi : 28854resmî gazetesayi : 28853resmî gazetesayi : 2885212345678sonraki sayfa pre-registration is appreciated but walk-in ’ s are always welcome.sponsored by the diocese of we seek love -- desire it more than gold .
sometimes put it on a shrine and bow down before the throne of " please love me forever . "
but when do we need it too much ?
what are the symptoms of desire turned into a monster of neediness and bone-gripping addiction ?
more ...
men -- all they want is sex .
right ?
really ?
no , not really !
not all men want sex all the time .
a stereotype that plagues the male species .
men often get a bum rap , depicted as constantly sexually motivated , as if they live in a mental squirrel cage with a constant ...
oneness : we all hope to have a marriage that reflects deep unity , merging of heart and soul , togetherness that shoulders the burdens of life , crushes the fear of being alone and uncared for .
oneness : captivates and inspires two lovers in the totality of life -- in and out of the ...
how far we drift apart -- reclaiming love in marriage " the huffington post " is a registered trademark of thehuffingtonpost.com , inc .
all rights reserved . irin | in-depth reports the first order of business at monday ’ s velva city commission meeting was to swear in the new president , cindy shattuck . & ldquo ; we need to get the word out to the public : if you send in a complaint about an abandoned or junk vehicle , we will act . & rdquo ; of privacy and our company will act accordingly .
see faqsprima criză a globalizării | cadran politic nu e nevoie de nici o demonstratie a faptului ca traim vremuri de criza .
o omenire sta atârnata de ecrane pe care urmareste lupte dure si dispute amare .
dar sintagma ce se afla pe buzele tuturor , & # 8220 ; criza irakiana & # 8221 ; acopera de fapt doua crize .
criza irakiana propriu-zisa e veche si se poate explica în termeni foarte simpli .
un stat & # 8211 ; irakul azi , îsi ataca în 1990 vecinul & # 8211 ; kuwait , si îl ocupa .
e somat de catre consiliul de securitate sa evacueze teritoriile ocupate si nu se conformeaza .
dupa paisprezece rezolutii este obligat de coalitia militara condusa de sua , sa o faca .
razboiul din golf a fost cel mai spectacular si urmarit conflict de dupa razboiul mondial .
consiliul de securitate decide dezarmarea si cum aceasta nu se realizeaza , irakul e somatde un nou rând de rezolutii sa se conformeze , si un nou embargo se instituie .
criza irakiana se întinde peste un deceniu .
ea urmeaza schema sistemului international clasic : un stat ataca pe altul si agresiunea e condamnata .
statul victima cere ajutor , dar nu de la onu , al carui sistem de securitate colectiva nu a functionat decât în cazul razboiului coreean , din cauza scaunului gol al unei mari puteri ( urss ) , ce putea obiecta .
ceea ce nu a însemnat sa nu joace alte roluri , ca operatiile de mentinere a pacii si a supravegherii liniilor de armistitiu .
sistemul de securitate colectiva din carta onu presupunea mijloace de constrângere , trupe internationale terestre , navale si aeriene puse la dispozitia onu , care sa conduca operatii militare cu generalii numiti de organizatie .
deci pe cine se bazeaza un agresat , daca nu pe ajutorul unor state interesate în pacea regiunii , a unor aliati , a unor prieteni si vecini ?
ei vor invoca desigur condamnarea formala a agresorului de catre onu .
aceasta organizatie este expresia de vârf a actualului sistem international bazat pe state membre .
nu poate face decât ce vor acestea .
carta îi interzice sa se amestece în treburile interne .
în crize lungi de patru decenii , ca cea a apartheidului , n-a putut interveni efectiv : a fost invocat principiul de aur al neamestecului în treburile interne .
în marea majoritate a conflictelor ce au avut loc , onu nici macar nu si-a spus cuvântul .
razboaie ca vietnamul , afganistanul , razboaie africane sau latino-americane , nu au figurat pe ordinea de zi .
marile puteri au paralizat timp de cinci decenii , cu sau fara razboi rece , sistemul de interventie colectiva al natiunilor unite .
crizele politice au fost întotdeauna dramatice . în ele este vorba de conflicte între parti care fusesera legate de interese comune , dar , din cauza unui litigiu nesolutionat , se afla în situatia rupturii , adica a întreruperii relatiilor si interactiunii normale , înlocuite eventual prin interactiunea violenta ( conflict armat , razboi ) sau a alternativei fericite a reconcilierii pe bazaunei solutii pasnice .
în timpul razboiului rece , care a fost presarat cu multe crize : interventia sovietica în ungaria ( 1956 ) , criza berlinului ( 1959-1961 ) , crizarachetelor din cuba ( 1962 ) , interventia sovietica în cehoslovacia ( 1968 ) si alte crize în numeroase tari afro-asiatice , acestea au fost teste ale coexistentei .
unele situau omenirea pe pragul catastrofei nucleare , ca în cazul crizei cubaneze .
daca între superputerile nucleare s-ar fi putut produce o ruptura ireparabila , altele provocau doar proteste diplomatice sau înasprirea relatiilor care însa continuau , restabilind echilibrul nesigur si instabil al terorii si facând sa reintre lucrurile într-un fagas relativ ( si precar ) de normalitate .
dupa patru sedinte aprinse , consiliul de securitate , în criza cubaneza , si-a suspendat sedintele , n-a adoptat nici o rezolutie si nici macar nu a înregistrat acordul realizat prin canalele bilaterale americano-sovietice .
trasatura pe care o deducem din aceasta succinta incursiune istorica , ca fiind caracteristica pentru criza politica internationala , este ruperea , fisura , spartura unui sistem ce tinea unite parti care în timpul crizei contemplau separarea .
exista o criza a relatiilor între partile componente ale cehoslovaciei ; ea se termina prin divizarea tarii in doua state noi , pe cale pasnica .
exista cam în acelasi timp o criza a federatiei iugoslave ; ea duce la desfacerea tarii în sase unitati statale noi , de data asta cu spasme violente si razboi .
descompunerea federatiilor si statelor secolului trecut , cea mai spectaculara fiind aceea a uniunii sovietice ( zece state noi ! ) tine de secolul trecut si de sistemul international care l-a caracterizat .
acest sistem creat la 1648 la închiderea razboiului de treizeci de ani , se bazeaza pe state , ca unice unitati legitime ale scenei lumii .
la rascruce de secole si milenii , un alt sistem de organizare a lumii se anunta : sistemul global .
în primul rând , acesta mai are si alti actori decât statele : corporatii ( în unele cazuri mai bogate decât statele & # 8211 ; cu cifre de afaceri mai mari decât bugetele saupib-ul acestora ) , organisme neguvernamentale , societate civila , societate academica , grupari profesionale , orase , regiuni si de ce nu , chiar indivizi .
când lordul bertrand russell , laureat al premiului nobel si pacifist , a trimis o scrisoare lui kennedy si hrusciov în timpul crizei cubaneze , a avut mai multa audienta internationala decât multe figuri politice ca precursor al vocii societatii civile .
în al doilea rând , globalitatea aceasta e irezistibila .
ea se bazeaza pe tehnologie avansata , al carei uz de facilitare a comunicarii si informatiei , dincolo si peste orice granita geografica , schimbând sensul timpului si spatiuluipentru omul contemporan , nu se pune la vot si nu cere aprobarea nimanui .
conditiile pentru regruparea omeniri în retele de interese sunt astfel create .
daca este pe internet , un articol al acestei reviste va fiaccesibil în orice loc al planetei .
la ora aceasta , ne aflam în tranzitie de la sistemul international la sistemul global .
primul are institutii cu reguli , norme si conventii , în frunte cu natiunile unite si cu marea sa familie de agentii guvernamentale .
sistemul global nu are înca institutii , nici reglementari .
pe terenul sau liber intra tot soiul de actori ilegali , care profita de starea de interregn , cum sunt toti traficantii de arme , de carne alba , de bani negri , mafiotii si teroristii .
alte activitati pasnice si importante au beneficiat de globalitate si au adus activitatile lor la niveluri exceptionale : cooperarea financiara , comertul , cooperarea economica , stiintifica , cea educativa , turistica , aproape toate , în mod predominant , efectuate de actori neguvernamentali .
statele si guvernele sunt ultimii beneficiari ai mijloacelor globalitatii .
în materie de propaganda si imagine , au deschis pagini utile de internet , dar activitatile lor practica în general contactul bilateral , predominant face-to-face , sau cel multilateral în conferinte si reuniuni numeroase , la care delegatii guvernamentali se deplaseaza fizic .
mii de conferinte ar putea fi economisite prin sistemul e-conferences pentru care toate conditiile sunt întrunite .
globalizarea e usor de recunoscut : multiplicitatea de actori si strânsa lor conexiune .
zecile de organisme internationale prezente în conflictele balcanilor satisfac prima caracteristica , dar nu si pe a doua .
actori mari ca organismele integrate nu si-au definit pozitia în globalitate si atât mai putin în sistemul onu .
globalizarea apeleaza mai energic la interventia în treburile interne ale statelor în cazul delincventelor grave , într-o perioada în care statele accepta transferul de suveranitate în procesele de integrare , dar dispune de mijloace pasnice bine puse la punct .
iarasi , prima trasatura e vizibila în evenimentele recente , dar a doua nu .
globalizarea e pragmatica si nu doctrinara , iar sistemul ei multipolar .
prima caracteristica se poate vedea , a doua nu e înca realizata .
criza a doua , de sub eticheta irakiana , priveste un conflict neviolent .
este în faza discursurilor .
priveste tensiunea si ciocnirile de opinii contrare ale membrilor a trei organizatii : nato , ue si onu .
motivul este tot irakul , dar radacinile neîntelegerii si mai ales consecintele nu tin de speta dezbaterii , adica de modul de a dezarma irakul prin interventie armata sau metode pasnice .
însa , tot criza este , daca tinem seama ca sensul acestui termen vine de la grecescul & # 8220 ; a decide & # 8221 ; si intr-adevar soarta unei crize sta în decizia de la punctele ei de rascruce , acolo unde spirala merge în sus spre explozie sau deznodamânt fatal sau pe trepte în jos în de-escaladare .
crizele celor trei organizatii sunt crize politice , de sistem .
ele nu sunt crize de securitate ci privesc modul în care aceasta este asigurata .
mai mult : se refera la organizarea lumii .
au loc într-un moment istoric când se trece de la un sistem la altul .
a avut oare acest sistem global timp sa aiba crize când se afla de abia în anii copilariei ?
sa luam , de pilda , actele teroriste din septembrie 2001 în new york .
numai prin intensitate ele difera de ceea ce traim din anii 1970 încoace .
terorismul e o plaga a vechiului sistem mostenita de globalitate .
e o criza de securitate , care nu poate fi asigurata prin metodele clasice .
dar , desi poate fi facilitat de transportul facil , legaturi , comunicare si mijloace ale globalitatii , nu este un produs al acesteia .
magnitudinea si intensitatea sfidarii sunt într-adevar noi , dar fenomenul e o expresie sau un produs al crizelor vechi si al ranilor nevindecate ale secolului trecut .
nici vociferarile împotriva carentelor globalizarii si a lipsei institutiilor de sistem nu înseamna înca o criza , nici protestele celor ce se simt dezavantajati de cursa ei frenetica competitiva .
termenul de criza se aplica la evenimentele din februarie 2003 când s-a ivit o fisura în componenta principala a sistemului international si anume în organismele înfiintate si sustinute de societatea occidentala sau euroatlantica.gravitatea acestei crize consta in alternativele solutiei : adâncirea fisurii pâna la ruptura sau separare si continuarea conlucrarii .
confruntarea celor doua puncte de vedere ( sua & # 8211 ; anglia si înca 40 de state pentru interventie neîntârziata , franta & # 8211 ; germania împreuna cu china si rusia pentru proceduri pasnice sub egida onu , sustinute de alte state si largi miscari populare ) a adus o modificare paradoxala a problemei : cazul irak prezenta o importanta mai mica decât consecintele ei pentru lumea occidentala .
din septembrie 2001 , aceasta lume e trezita la o realitate dura : e sfidata de acte teroriste majore si de un pericol de tip nou , cu un dusman greu de identificat si de localizat ; se afla minoritara într-o lumeostila , în ascendenta numerica rapida ; are de rezolvat probleme noi cu institutii si metode vechi si ineficiente .
trece acest prag al dificultatii si creeaza o larga alianta a civilizatiei care uneste state din toate categoriile si regiunile împotriva dusmanului comun .
si putin dupa aceea , pe tema tacticii de urmat în cazul saddam , aceasta lume mica se rupe în doua , distrugând si marea coalitie antiterorista dupa ea .
din punct de vedere istoric , este cea mai mare eroare ce se putea produce la începutul unui secol , pe care l-ar fi transformat într-o era anarhica si distrugatoare pentru pozitia ei în lume .
criza a fost dezbatuta , solutia a fost cautata si protagonistii au revenit la ratiune în trei acte .
februarie 2003 .
la sediul nato din bruxelles se discuta cererea statutara a turciei de a primi ajutor de la organizatie .
sua este profund interesata în sprijinirea unui aliat de baza în campania anti-irakiana , interes denuntat de un trio european : franta , germania si belgia care se opun , motivând o miscare ce ar facilita solutia razboiului .
si în acest caz , tema formala e mult depasita de implicatiile deciziei .
o solutie a secretariatului general esueaza .
alta este creata prin explorarea unor proceduri interne .
ea reuseste .
nato evita o ruptura , continua sa functioneze pe o platforma comuna .
alternativa a fost evitata .
nici suasi sustinatorii sai , nici franta si prietenii sai nu au creat noi institutii obediente si fidele .
februarie 2003 .
se joaca la bruxelles , la sediul ue .
ministrii de externe membri ai consiliului sunt chemati sa se pronunte în privinta unui punct de vedere european comun fata de problema dezarmarii irakului .
la început , confruntare aspra a partizanilor solutiei sua , si a celor favorizând metoda onu .
la orizont , imposibilitatea unui acord si prin aceasta distrugerea oricarei aspiratii de a conduce europa spre o politica externa comuna , piesa esentiala în desfasurarea unitatii europene .
mai mult decât atât , înghetarea întregului proces si polarizarea celor doua tabere în factiuni adverse si rivale .
în ultimul moment , formula comuna e gasita , ratiunea prevaleaza , ue continua sa existe si sa-si urmeze programul .
martie 2003. se joaca la onu , în sala consiliului desecuritate .
batalia se duce în jurul unei rezolutii prezentate de sua si anglia , cerând în esenta lumina verde pentru interventia lor , ca urmare a neîndeplinirii de catre irak a cererilor impuse de rezolutia unanima a consiliului se securitate 1441 din decembrie .
oricât de ciudat ar parea , si în acest caz , faptul daca irakul este atacat de fortele sua sau nu , aremai putina importanta decât daca atacul se face cu aprobarea tacita sau expresa a onu sau daca o dezaprobare e sanctificata printr-un veto sau un vot negativ în consiliul de securitate .
ultimul caz distruge ceea ce mai exista dinautoritatea onu si risca sa puna organizatia la cosul relicvelor vetuste ale istoriei .
înseamna ca intram într-o perioada în care normele si institutiile create pentru pacea si securitatea internationala , chiar asa slabe si ineficiente cum sunt , nu mai au valabilitate .
preludiu procedural minuscul la razboiul de treizeci de ani al noului secol , dupa unii .
rezolutia nu se pune la vot .
fisura nu se adânceste .
exista o rezolutie unanima din noiembrie 2002 , care poate fi interpretata diferit .
razboiul poate începe în interpretarea sua , dar nu este legal în interpretarea altora ; aparentele formale sunt salvate .
onu îsi continua activitatea .
mai mult decât atât , are în reconstructie un rol recunoscut de toti .
ue îsi mentine coeziunea în jurul acestei idei ( summit-ul din martie ) , adoptând un text unanim .
de data aceasta onu e mai bine pregatita pentru activitate , are agentii de asistenta umanitara si practica în restabilirea ordinii de stat ( cambodgia ) .
sua au facut la azore o declaratie care se îndeparta de planurile ei anuntate anterior de a guverna singura tara în timpul perioadei de reconstructie , recunoscând rolul onu .
razboiul se desfasoara pe o perioada nesigura , dar lumea vorbeste de perioada postbelica , subiect reparator pentru tensiunea celor trei organizatii vizitate de criza .
dar aceasta nu e rezolvata .
noi dispute se anunta în privinta rezolutiilor care vor fi adoptate la onu pentru demararea procesului .
în fond , onu a girat si fondul veniturilor din petrol de care irakul dispunea doar pentru hrana si medicamente .
oponentii razboiului , ca franta si rusia , anunta ca nu vor vota nimic ceea ce ar putea legitima retrospectiv interventia militara a sua .
chiar daca se acorda sanse de reconciliere la nivelul liderilor , societatea civila manifesta prin miscarile sale mult mai adânci diviziuni si tendinte de radicalizare .
reforma onu sau o noua institutie a societatilor globalizate , structura institutionala si politica a noului sistem ( cine face legea , cine decide ) , locul fiecaruia în sistem ( ue sau nato ) vor fi marea tema a acestui secol .
la urma urmei , e vorba de marea familie a omenirii si de supravietuirea ei în conditii de pace .
cedar gap chronicles : ski cedar gap mon dec 30 , 2013 10 : 27 pm est what ’ s closed new year ’ s day mon dec 30 , 2013 8 : 27 pm est consumer confidential : to tip or not to tip mon dec 30 , 2013 10 : 27 pm est shooting at home in pampa leaves one person dead mon dec 30 , 2013 8 : 27 pm est pronews 7 says farewell to jay ricci mon dec 30 , 2013 2 : 27 pm est austin firefighter suspended mon dec 30 , 2013 10 : 27 pm est fans reflect on brown ’ s career at ut mon dec 30 , 2013 10 : 27 pm est komen founder brinker takes pay cut in new role mon dec 30 , 2013 8 : 27 pm est man pleads not guilty in death of austin officer mon dec 30 , 2013 6 : 27 pm est tamale sale to benefit youth of baruch hashem assembly sun dec 29 , 2013 04 : 27 am est el pasoans help the homeless on christmas mon dec 30 , 2013 08 : 27 am est gun dealer tangled in ’ fast and furious ’ free on probation mon dec 23 , 2013 12 : 27 am est donors pitch in to pay for surgery for obese texas girl mon dec 30 , 2013 8 : 27 pm est uncovering a scandal that rocked texas politics mon dec 30 , 2013 12 : 27 pm est gohmert to push karis law mon dec 30 , 2013 06 : 27 am est desire to be fit increasing gym membership mon dec 30 , 2013 10 : 27 pm est no one injured when vehicle collides with sheriff ’ s deputy ’ s car mon dec 30 , 2013 02 : 27 am est is the handwriting on the wall for cursive sun dec 29 , 2013 02 : 27 am est west 1st responders honored as texans of the year sun dec 29 , 2013 04 : 27 am est wacos jobless rate drops fri dec 20 , 2013 10 : 27 pm est after ringing in the new year with frigid temperatures and a possible dusting of snow , new yorkers should brace themselves for an arctic low of 5 degrees friday , forecasters say. click the " forgot password " link under the login box located on the upper right corner of the page .
a : to log in to the website , enter the username and password you received via email in the username and password filed located q : what do i do if i 've forgotton my password ... to the email address on record for the account .
note , the browser limit will typically be reached only if you try logging in to the site q : what do i do if i 've received the " browser limit exceeded " error page ...
q : what are newsstand credits and how are they used ...
[ usa visa for thais & girlfriends ] [ uk visas for spouses & girlfriends ] [ non immigrant visas ] [ lawyer mp zaruhi postanjyan has prepared gifts for serzh sargsyan and others nkr prime minister : no customs on border of artsakh and armenia the hazen star is counting down its top 10 stories of the year automotivebridalbusinesseducationfamily livingfashion / fitnessgift ideasgreen livinghealthhome decoratinghome improvement / constructionhot topicshow-tokitchen / bed / bathlawn / gardenmoney / financepetsreal estaterecipes / entertainingseasonalsenior livingtech talk / innovationtravel © 2013 indexmundi - all rights reserved five of 2013 's most enraging moments in drug war racism | sharda sekaran 5 .
rob ford and trey radel " get out of jail free " card sharda sekaran is the communications director of the drug policy alliance ( www.drugpolicy.org ) letter : an issue of critical importance to the people of dangriga in southern belize november 1 , 2013 despite everyone ’ s fascination with gapi vega the most powerful by far is the education youth and sport minister does he know his significance i wonder ?
waiting for the pm and vega ’ s sanction worried about losing a convention he has the country ’ s future in his coffer ...
" the huffington post " is a registered trademark of thehuffingtonpost.com , inc .
all rights reserved . wallis and futuna news headlines not end of road for pupils who missed admission - tamongsco na waryoba yankami “ california parks director resigns amid scandal ” — the sacramento bee letter to the president of the dominican republic from the prime minister of st vincent and the grenadines november 13 , 2013 greetings from the government and people of st vincent and the grenadines !
on october 11 , 2013 , i wrote to you a letter on the ruling by the constitutional court of the dominican republic on the deprivation / denial of citizenship of the dominican republic to persons of haitian descent .
napa autocare mechanical center napa autocare collision center napa autocare truck center a group of common myna birds and a cattle egret sit on top of a rhinoceros at kaziranga national park in india .
a kitten sticks out its paw through the bars of a cage during a cat exhibition in geneva .
the exhibition organized by the cat club de geneve on the occasion of its 80th anniversary presented about 500 pedigree cats .
a nepalese applies vermilion and saffron powder on a dog as part of rituals during festival celebrations in kathmandu , nepal .
a car stops to allow a moose to cross westpark drive in anchorage .
the bull was one of two grazing on foliage .
a newborn hartmann ’ s mountain zebra stands next to its mother in the zoo of the parc de la tete d 'or in lyon , france .
the zebra was born a few days earlier .
the hartmann 's mountain zebra is a threatened species .
in the interests of the protection of our users ' privacy across the km group 's portfolio of websites , we are adopting the following we want to ensure that all of our visitors are made aware of the prefer , you can set your browser to refuse cookies .
you should be properly if you do not accept the cookies sent by them. experience , but are not controlled in your web browser in the same stormwater projects on agenda thu dec 26 , 2013 2 : 14 pm est graduation justopening step for marines ’ careers sun dec 8 , 2013 10 : 14 am est graduation justopening step formarines ’ careers sun dec 8 , 2013 04 : 14 am est where to donate on new year ’ s eve mon dec 30 , 2013 6 : 14 pm est sb i-71 ramp to nb i-75 reopens after accident mon dec 30 , 2013 6 : 14 pm est todd portune to run for oh governor mon dec 30 , 2013 4 : 14 pm est free cab rides on new year ’ s eve mon dec 30 , 2013 4 : 14 pm est wreck in danville sends one man to the hospital mon dec 30 , 2013 12 : 14 pm est friends , family turn to facebook in search for man mon dec 30 , 2013 12 : 14 pm est harrodsburg police arrest man for drug possession mon dec 30 , 2013 10 : 14 am est popular safety city and dare programs on the city ’ s chopping block wed jun 20 , 2012 02 : 14 am edt man admits beating his girlfriend ’ s grandmother to death wed jun 20 , 2012 02 : 14 am edt teen convicted in friend ’ s slaying to continue treatment fri oct 7 , 2011 10 : 14 am edt 2,300 in lexington for state ffa convention , and they ’ re not all farmers fri oct 7 , 2011 10 : 14 am edt pair indicted in death of whitley county toddler wed dec 4 , 2013 12 : 14 pm est corbin police arrest burglary suspect wed dec 4 , 2013 06 : 14 am est “ we can ’ t make it rain , ” utah governor gary herbert said last month at a forum in washington , d.c. , “ but we can do a better job of preparing for drought conditions and mitigating the impacts of drought . ”
missouri lawmaker wants political consultants to stay out of policymaking vt. gov . , to push ’ net metering ’ in legislature mon dec 30 , 2013 2 : 28 pm est rockingham awarded grant for the island sat dec 28 , 2013 04 : 28 am est milton hannaford to reopen at new , larger location mon dec 30 , 2013 10 : 28 pm est police : winooski death ’ most likely ’ a suicide mon dec 30 , 2013 10 : 28 pm est utilities , sugarmakers grapple with cost of storms mon dec 30 , 2013 6 : 28 pm est what are those loud booms you ’ re hearing ?
mon dec 30 , 2013 8 : 28 pm est net metering expansion proposal in the works mon dec 30 , 2013 6 : 28 pm est multiple arrests following phish jam in nyc mon dec 30 , 2013 2 : 28 pm est the biggest globe in uzbekistan was solemnly presented in bukhara uzbekistan : the clearance of plane trees , oaks and elms reached the graveyards « ihate stupidity and flattery ...
maxim popov , his friends and enemies what is the true purpose of the anti-tajik protests in uzbekistan ?
dilshod usmanov : the future of our country is the future of our children the invasion of gypsy moth in the capital of uzbekistan the six issue of the only newspaper of labor immigrants in moscow is available now mzumbe dar campus for msc in gas , oil management na the guardian reporter despite a meager one point lead at the half , the aggies went on to finish last friday ’ s game in high style , ousting the rugby panthers 28-6 .
for the natural hair show and the tribute to the garingu doctorsreads : 3531 that is the takeaway i want anyone to have from my experience .
if you are feeling depressed or anything close to that , it is not going to change unless you do .
scott , i don & # 8217 ; t know you but i am really proud of you , and anyone , who has the courage to make this decision .
b , i appreciate the first sentence of your comment .
but mcmaster has been incredible to me and people here have shown a ton of support , so i & # 8217 ; ve got to disagree .
if you think it is no place to get better , i am sorry you feel that way but don & # 8217 ; t infer that i am leaving because of this school .
news of the imminent effect of drilling of the bakken oil formation has been a hot topic lately .
now the center city council is finding that the oil wave may be surging closer than previously expected .
a special investigative report delivered by the committee on operation tokomeza is what touched off ministers ’ removal by vicarious responsibility .
there was no way for president jakaya kikwete to minimize the pressure by lawmakers demanding the resignation of premier pinda , but to sack the ministers .
at the end all concerned ministers had to go , despite that the premier and the president generally considered the case of dr mathayo david mathayo as not quite responsible as the ministry of livestock development and fisheries was out of line , not having any warders or armed troops of any sort. de representar a los miles de inmigrantes que tienen que trabajar doble jornada para salir adelante descubre con qué bebidas típicas celebran la navidad y el año nuevo en diferente ...
la mesas en las casas de las familias latinas se llenan de sabores , olores y co ...
conoce los alimentos de esta temporada de otoño y en qué benefician a tu salud , ...
¿ beber agua adelgaza ?
¿ cuántos litros debo tomar al día ?
¿ con sodio o sin sodio ? ...
una dieta que propone regresar a los orígenes y alimentarse como lo hacían nuest ...
una gran historia de amor e integras a las que nos tiene acostumbrad ...
los más bellos , bellas y sexys de la televisión latina conoce los rostros más bellos de la televisión latina del 2013 .
muertes que han impactado al mundo del espectáculo llevándose a homb ...
a thunderous wheezing sound from a group of hippopotamuses floating on katuma river near sitalike village could be heard as we entered the katavi national park in mpanda district , katavi region enthralling bishop charles gadi of the dar es salaam based good news for all ministry .
the fate of the long waited kigamboni bridge is still trembling after the long persistence of the four kigamboni residents who refused to leave the area so as to pave way for the construction of the bridge .
the genesis of the constitution reviews is traced to the ashes of election process where losers in election process in and as a defence mechanism faulted the election managers as the cause of their failure to go power .
it is approaching the end of the year .
tanzanians as other people in the world are preparing themselves to celebrate the christmas and new year festival .
why is tanzania short of safe water ?
problem is mismanagement - experts but kassims ’ work ’ , is not of the usual kind , as he is a ’ substance abuse therapist ’ at one of the sober houses in zanzibar , doing a job that can offer satisfaction and problems in equal measure .
the pitfalls of constitution - making in tanzania : the lessons so far at the end of last month , prof issa shivji delivered a lecture to the university of dodoma convocation , at which the internationally acclaimed lawyer dwelt on the ongoing constitution-making process , pinpointing pitfalls and lessons so far learnt .
shutling pontoons and barges move to and from incoming and outgoing ships at the tanga port – an oldest maritime facility on tanzania ’ s coastline of the indian ocean .
at nunge , a location overlooking the india ocean , at kigamboni in temeke district , southern past of dar es salaam , one comes across a home for the elderly .
news that dr sengondo mvungi , a constitutional law legend , has passed on is deeply saddening to me and undoubtedly many others who knew him .
i have known dr mvungi since 2001 as i was privileged to be in his constitutional law class at the faculty of law , university of dar es salaam .
in my view his death was preventable at two societal and institutional levels .
as a society in the city of dar es salaam we seem to have resigned and left the fate of our security in the hands of a few disjointed militia groups to deal with the unresolved menace of seemingly organised terror groups ( of 10 to 30 youths ) going by different operational names .
is the current leadership crisis in eac a danger to the survival of the organization ?
yes , indeed , it is technically , both were members of the authority , but operationally mwalimu would not sit at a table with iddi amin ( ’ simtaki muuaji huyu ’ ) .
basking in the sun on a hot day one afternoon , a half dozen or so crocodiles are seen taking a break on the riverside of wami river .
we will not cease to remember and cherish father of the nation mwalimu nyerere because of his wisdom and love to his people .
fourteen years after his death the nation still sobs and remembers the great leader who was an assurance of peace and protection for the poor and disadvantaged majority .
conflicts over water are increasing in the sprawling pangani river basin in northeastern tanzania as farmers and herders jostle for dwindling water resources in the face of climate change . & ldquo ; the question is not whether to abandon the global targets but rather how to improve the mdg architecture and how to adjust them to the priorities beyond 2015 & rdquo ; - jan vandemoortele .
fort lauderdale readies for new year ’ s eve mon dec 30 , 2013 10 : 10 pm est broward schools pay $ 275,00 in whistleblower case mon dec 30 , 2013 8 : 10 pm est body found in new river mon dec 30 , 2013 6 : 10 pm est cvs caremark to lay off 200 mail order employees sat dec 21 , 2013 04 : 10 am est man ran nfl football pool in store parking lot , police say mon dec 30 , 2013 2 : 10 pm est ’ glimmer of hope ’ for medical marijuana in florida video mon dec 30 , 2013 8 : 10 pm est s.fla.
gets ready for new years eve mon dec 30 , 2013 10 : 10 pm est dad of tsarnaev friend killed in fla .
writes to obama mon dec 30 , 2013 8 : 10 pm est family from orlando searches for dog lost in s fla mon dec 30 , 2013 2 : 10 pm est in perrine , a spurned lover opens fire , and then uses his truck as a weapon mon dec 30 , 2013 4 : 10 pm est florida ’ s population grows , but not enough to overcome new york mon dec 30 , 2013 2 : 10 pm est police id two people killed in south dade dispute mon dec 30 , 2013 2 : 10 pm est police id two people killed in sw dade dispute mon dec 30 , 2013 12 : 10 pm est fla. on track to surpass ny mon dec 30 , 2013 4 : 10 pm est broward man dies in key largo dinghy accident thu dec 12 , 2013 08 : 10 am est brown pelicans found in lower keys with pouches slashed wed dec 11 , 2013 4 : 10 pm est male struck by car in palm beach gardens ; lanes reopen on northlake boulevard mon dec 30 , 2013 10 : 10 pm est most expensive stays in florida for new year ’ s eve mon dec 30 , 2013 4 : 10 pm est year in review : portmiami tunnel sees light of day mon dec 30 , 2013 2 : 10 pm est man struck , seriously injured by bus in boca raton ’ s century village mon dec 30 , 2013 4 : 11 pm est if you drive by the leland olds station , you may notice something new .
veritas in caritate – truth in love the exterior is the traditional " framing " of a bishop 's coat of arms . the left side of the crest stands for the diocese of cheyenne . the right side represents bishop etienne : the external ornaments of a gold episcopal processional cross and a pontifical hat , called a " gallero " with six tassels are the heraldic insignia of a prelate of the rank of bishop , by instruction of the holy see on march 31 , 1969 .
the earliest settlement in the present diocese was at fort laramie , where several bloody fights took place .
the embattled partition represents the wall a fort against a crimson sky , with the cross of the faith on the wall of the sky .
the two fleur-de-lis are abstracted from the bishop 's family coat of arms .
the shield is divided by a chevron in the form of a carpenters square to honor st. joseph , the baptismal patron of the bishop .
the grizzly bear is taken from the state seal of kansas .
the motto is " dominus pars , " from the 16th century psalm : " the lord is the portion of my cup and my inheritance ; it is he who will return my inheritance to me . "
the external ornaments of the shield are composed of the pontifical hat with its six tassels on each side , disposed in three rows , all in green , and episcopal cross tinctured in gold .
these are the heraldic insignia of prelate of the rank of bishop in accordance with the instruction of the holy see of april , 1969 .
the coat of arms was designed by william ryan of massachusetts .
looking for top-rated stocks near a potential buy point ? see the " leaders list " onleaderboard get the details on the can slim system by the man who developed it .
get tips on how to handle q4 , and how to decide whether to hold or sell a stock showing volatility .
access to the webinar requires a marketsmith subscription or trial .
marketsmith and special operations warrior foundationinvest in yourself and support the families of our nation 's heroes .
free ibd trialget access to ibd 's stock lists and tools : print | eibd free leaderboard trialshort on time ?
get ongoing alerts to potential winners from ibd experts .
my parents were sitting in the front , facing the highway , and i was sitting behind them , facing disownment .
when i finally managed to say it – in what i hope was a nonchalant but formal tone – i held my breath for their response .
i don ’ t know why i was so surprised that my parents reacted so calmly : they ’ re very reasonable people who have been around for a few years .
long enough to know what is and isn ’ t worth freaking out about .
that moment in the minivan reinforced a message my parents had taught to me throughout the years , mostly by example .
maybe you bombed a test you didn ’ t study for .
maybe you got a bad grade on a paper you wrote during an all-nighter .
maybe you tried to learn all of personality in one weekend by listening to the podcasts while you slept , and for some reason still did poorly on the midterm .
it happens to everyone .
we all slip up on our studying schedules , or go out on nights before midterms , or convince ourselves that starting an hbo series three days before a paper is due is totally fine and you ’ ll be able to get it done anyways .
take a bit to be sad .
curl up in blankets .
eat something because of the way it tastes .
get a good , tight , warm hug .
but it ’ s not the end of the world .
it ’ s not even the end of your world .
remind yourself about the things you ’ re good at , whether that be chemistry or a video game .
do one of those things .
talk to someone who knows how rad you are , and reminds you of that .
when i was in the fifth grade , i convinced my parents to let me get an email address .
i thought long and hard about what i wanted this address to be .
it had to be cool , obviously , and it had to be me .
a difficult dichotomy to negotiate , yes , but it finally came to me .
i told my father who wrote it down so he was sure to get it right , and later that night he showed me how to log in to my first email account : if i can live with that , man , we ’ re all going to be okay .
take a nap .
eat a cookie .
talk to a friend .
rdc : & bdquo ; près de 90 & percnt des combattants du m23 sont des militaires rwandais « affirme un déserteur .
rdc : & bdquo ; près de 90 & percnt des combattants du m23 sont des militaires & bdquo ; pas loin de quatre vingt-dix pour cent ( 90 & percnt ) des combattants de la rébellion m23 qui se bat à l ’ est de la république démocratique du congo ( rdc ) , sont des militaires de l ’ armée rwandaise « , a affirmé à la bbc un des quatre rwandais recrutés et forcés de rejoindre les rangs des rebelles du m23 .
les ces quatre individus ont déclaré avoir été recrutés de force au rwanda par prêter main forte aux rebelles du m23 qui sévissent à l ’ est de la rdc depuis des mois.après s ’ être échappés , ils ont demandél ’ asile en ouganda , d ’ où ils ont livré leur témoignage à la bbcce mardi le 31 juillet .
un des déserteurs affirme que le mouvement m23 est constitué à 90 & percnt de militaires de l ’ armée rwandaise .
un autre transfuge quisuivaitdes études de médecine au rwanda lors de son recrutement forcé pour le compte du m23 , a indiqué à la bbc , qu ’ il a soigné plus de 300 combattants du m23 blessés au les témoignages de ces déserteurs corroborent le contenu du rapport de humanrights watch ( hrw ) publié le 22juillet dernier.dans ce rapport d ’ autres combattants , recrutés de force au rwanda et qui ont réussi à s ’ échapper , ont combattre de l ’ autre coté de la frontière rwandaise.dans ce rapport , ces combattants ont également rapporté que la rébellion m23 est constituée en grande partie de militaires de l ’ armée rwandaise et de combattants recrutés de force au ce n ’ est pas la première fois que des recrues rwandaises pour le compte du m23 demandent asile en ouganda .
le 20 juin dernier , 16 étudiants rwandais ( 14 hommes et deux femmes ) y avaient encore demandé l ’ asile en déclarant être victimes du harcèlement des autorités de leur pays pour avoir refusé de se joindre auxrebelles du m23.deux de ces étudiants en fuite ont affirmé qu ’ ils avaient refusé de participer au programme parce que leurs amis qui y sont allés le rwanda continue de nier son soutien au m23 malgré l ’ accumulation des le porte parole de l ’ armée rwandaise , joseph nzabamwita , a déclaré à la bbc haiti hopes miracle moringa tree can help to combat malnutrition | felix von geyer " the huffington post " is a registered trademark of thehuffingtonpost.com , inc .
all rights reserved . vox gibraltar news
