there are birds , birds , birds everywhere , and it is getting to be an annoyance for some yuma residents .
it will not be long before the annual st. patrick ’ s day auction is here .
any organization that would like to be a benefactor of the auction ’ s funds needs to apply at the yuma community center by february 15 .
if you need to contact us with a news tip , for advertising , to subscribe to our paper , or anything else , give us a call at 970-848-2174 or email us at should guns be allowed in schools to protect the students and staff ?
our colorado news : westminster window | the westsider | ourwestminsternews.com you will be redirected to the page you want to view inseconds .
saint valentine 's day was not invented by the candy industry , for anyone doubting the legitimacy of the holiday .
krysta barrientos wondered about her own sanity in opening a retail store in january .
homenewslocal newsregional newsbusinessenvironmentpolice & courtspoliticsroad camsski industryweathernationap businessworldelectionssportslocal sportsskiing & snowboardingnational sportsap sportssports eventsentertainmentbars & nightlifeeventsmoviesmusicperforming artsvisual artbookslifestyle columnscontestsfood & drinktravelcomicsap entertainmentap travelhealth & wellnessentertainment events 'the doctors ' tv showopinioncolumnseditorialsletters to the editorpollspolitical cartoonscommunityannouncementsclubs / organizationseducationobituariestown talkpetsteensbusiness listingslegal noticesspecial guidesvail storecommunity eventsoutdoorsbikinggolfhiking / campinghunting / fishingrafting / paddlingskiing / snowboardingmountain camssummer recreationwinter recreationsnow reportoutdoor eventsphotos + videosstaff photosstaff videosslideshowsbuy photosnewspaper reprintsvisitors ' guidespecial guidesarea attractionskid 's activitieslodgingshoppingthings to dotransportationdealjobsfind a jobpost a jobreal estatefor salefor rentplace an adautosall autosplace an adclassifiedsall classifiedsmerchandiserecreationpetsbusiness & service directoryplace an admanage account light snowfall , quirk of the calendar get most of the blame ... onmouseout = " return hidetextpreview ( this ) ; " class = " listed entry-title " > a day on , not a day offyesterday onmouseout = " return hidetextpreview ( this ) ; " class = " listed entry-title " > & # 8216 ; next big band out of boulder ' plays in avonyesterday onmouseout = " return hidetextpreview ( this ) ; " class = " listed entry-title " > vail daily column : new highs !
now what ? yesterday onmouseout = " return hidetextpreview ( this ) ; " class = " listed entry-title " > vail daily health column : new trends in acl tears and how to prevent one yesterday skiing & snowboarding : brought to you by the steadman clinic and the steadman philippon research institute.vail official report : 0 " new snow ' ) ; " onmouseout = " return hidetextpreview ( this ) ; " class = " listed entry-title " > on the hill video ski report : fun day at vailyesterday columns : open bar columnist michael brownlee explores what it means to be an " expert " on a subject . ' ) ; " onmouseout = " return hidetextpreview ( this ) ; " class = " listed " > vail daily health column : new trends in acl tears and how to prevent oneyesterday brought to you by the steadman clinic and the steadman philippon research institute.vail official report : 0 " new snow ' ) ; " onmouseout = " return hidetextpreview ( this ) ; " class = " listed " > on the hill video ski report : fun day at vailyesterday on jan .
27 , the rev. van ens reverently pontificated about the failings of republicans as not being in sync with the tempo , beat or music of the people regarding government and god .
he eulogized the religious far left and its ... ' ) ; " as a result of the gerrymandering done to the 3rd congressional district by the colorado state legislature , half of eagle county now has a new u.s. representative . ' ) ; " we are at a time in our history when as citizens of this great nation , we should not be thinking , acting and talking as we have always done . ' ) ; " own a business in eagle county and want to get the word out ?
submit a bizwatch today !
your weekend guide to all things fun in the vail valley--that 's good for the entire week !
apartments in avon , coattorneys in avon , coauto dealers in avon , coauto parts in avon , coauto repair in avon , cobeauty salons in avon , cocar rental in avon , codentists in avon , codoctors in avon , coflowers in avon , cohotels in avon , coinsurance in avon , coloans in avon , comortgages in avon , comovers in avon , copizza in avon , corealtors in avon , corestaurants in avon , costorage in avon , cotax preparation in avon , cotravel in avon , cofeaturedmore are we missing a clearfield news source ?
let us know !
who do you support for governor in pennsylvania in 2010 ?
for anyone who is considering running for a local office , clearfield county will be holding a " candidates night " on feb .
a few weeks ago , central pa live gave you a tour of the clearfield county spca 's new shelter .
the magic of snow : what would you do if you were a snowman at night ?
mechanic i t l tanklines need a mechanic or diesel are you going on vacation out of state this year ?
thursday : how do you give a polar bear a ' medical ' ? ’ brown can take aberdeen fc back to the top ’ evening express ’ my spell as aberdeen fc boss won ’ t spoil my return ’ evening express shock as village singer stabbed in own homepress and journal a remote farm is set to become a falcon breeding centre for the qatari royal family pop star calvin harris is the most successful songwriter in both the uk and us police hunt a man they believe has carried out three indecent assaults on young women in the west end of glasgow in the past two weeks .
a 28-year-old man who admitted raping a girl at her 14th birthday party at a house in paisley is jailed for six years .
tha oidhirp a & # 039 ; leantainn gus lorg fhaighinn air fireannach a chaidh a dhìth aig loch obha ann an earra-ghàidheal .
why was this " exquisite " roman silver plate cut into pieces ?
could big waves be big news for the western isles ?
join us to get the highlights from bbc scotland news fergus muirhead looks at issues such as ppi and car insurance chef laurence cooks up a plan to give back to charityfalkirk herald monster waves are being recorded off lewis , but why should we care ?
manager terry butcher is worried inverness duo andrew shinnie and richie foran could both be out for a " few weeks " .
sign up for the careers conventionlargs & millport weekly news on sale : 31 january 2013city of culture on the tay they bid to become a city of culture in 2017 .
will the jewel in form of travelling he knows and loves , and explains why the trend robert falcon scott and his men died in the race to the south and put the focus on dundee , city of discovery and its bid for city scroll to top the scots magazine | for people who love scotland part of scotland 's history , its heritage , its people and its history , travel tips and activities that are all complimented by win a vip curator-led tour of national galleries of scotland 's offers a surprising mix of art , culture , and fine dining .
see the landscapes of scotland captured in a surprising way at the latest galleries of scotland and visitscotland have teamed up to offer you the chance to win a luxury overnight stay for two in edinburgh , including a vip curator-led tour of the exhibition .
the prize copy of the exhibition catalogue as well as afternoon tea in the copy of the catalogue and afternoon tea for two .
the scottish colourist series : sj peploe is on at the scottish national gallery years ago , but their re-introduction to the cairngorms in 1952 has properties to rent in the area giving you the chance to see these may or june and you might , if you 're lucky , see the reindeer with bring a taste of scotland to london and celebrate the birth of 1924 , when it was re-established by the st andrew society ( glasgow ) as the official organ of the scottish societies throughout the find out how to subscribe to the scots magazine here .
the latest of several rounds of discussion on the topic now has zebulon staffers reworking a trio of facility use policy drafts for commissioners to chose from .
rezoning request for marshburn road apartment complex in wendell has to wait .
all rights reserved .
this copyrighted material may not be published , broadcast or redistributed in any manner .
a fan , a coach , and the red sea of revelry jquery.noconflict ( ) ; castle in the clouds is one of 18 lchip grant winners - the laker castle in the clouds is one of 18 lchip grant winners the castle preservation society is extremely grateful to lchip and to all who have given to help with the multi-year restoration of the castle in the clouds property . the castle preservation society is a non-profit corporation dedicated to the restoration and preservation of the buildings at the castle in the clouds property . tax deductible donations can be made at the castle in the clouds offices at 476-5900 or through www.castleintheclouds.org.
now that the snow has fallen it ’ s time to get outside and enjoy it !
the event also is meant to celebrate the life and work of scotland ’ s greatest poet robert burns on the anniversary of his birth in 1759 .
before his death at the age of 37 , burns had written close to 600 poems and songs .
one of his better-known works is “ auld lang syne . ”
mark you calendar for february 9th , and come see for yourself how a deep freeze can be a cause for celebration !
those that take part in the snowshoe fitness & full moon snowshoe walks are welcome to bring their own snowshoes or use the ones at the center ( snowshoe rentals are included in the program fee ) .
also , if you plan on taking part in the sledding parties we do have some sleds on-site that you can use for no additional fee !
jarratt , va .
he gave a nod and a wink before he sat down in the electric chair , then he uttered two statements as contradictory as the man himself : a gaelic expletive and " god bless . "
topics in the newsu.s.super bowlarizona republiclos angeleswaste management phoenix openfiesta bowlirsinternal revenue servicejobing.com arenaphil mickelson browse categoriesbrandscultureevents and awardshealth and wellnesslegislation and actsnatural and physical sciencesorganizationspeopleplaces , geographyreligion and beliefs do you remember that sweet black-and-white shot of a teenage , pre-princess diana that was dug up earlier this month ?
she 's snuggling with a boy on a bed an arm 's length from a whiskey bottle in a tatty , wood-paneled room during a swiss ski holiday .
acquired by a british newspaper , a staffer scrawled " not to be published " in black across the top .
umbc women 's basketball travels to sefcu arena to take on red hot albany one thing about huang , say he knows how to dress a plate .
sometimes i had trouble following the scene changes .
he shows up in north carolina and pittsburgh with little notice .
i also had trouble figuring out how old he was in a few spots .
the few poor transitions geraldo as he mulls political office ( nyt / media decoder ) geraldo riveraâs stated interest in running for a senate seat in new jersey has been derided as a joke and a publicity stunt .
but his employers are taking it seriously .
heâd have to leave his weekend was said in drudge retort : red meat for yellow dogs3d 20h ago millions of new jersey families are struggling and suffering with an unemployment rate that hovers near ten percent , higher than it was a year ago and two points higher than the national … while the governor continues to pray at the altar of the republican party ’ s bedrock principles of tax cuts to millionaires new jobless numbers are a bit of a mixed bag for president obama and his re-election bid .
president barack obama had finished his inaugural address on monday and entered the tunnel to the capitol building when he stopped his escorts and turned to look back on the expanse of the national mall .
the waves of humanity had not receded , and you could see the president focusing and freezing the moment in his mind .
they represent you .
but are they representative of the state ?
why is this conflict " non-international ? " , you say ?
aren 't we dropping hellfires in pakistan , which is not in rhode island ?
glad you asked .
the conflict is " non-international " because the conflict is between the u.s. and a " transnational non-state actor . "
' house i live in ' is a compelling examination of war on drugs loser ‘ s remorse .
miss rhode island olivia culpo went on to win the miss usa pageant .
going to arbitration was the appropriate action to take under the circumstances , and while i feel very badly for sheena , she did the wrong thing .
she was really nasty , and we had no choice .
it is an expensive lesson for her i am proud to welcome jetblue airways to rhode island i thought it was a good game ...
it was one of those games where it never really got going up and down the floor like i wanted to or as much as i would have wanted to . … we did a really good job passing and sharing the ball .
i don ’ t want to say i ’ d absolutely never run ... but i ’ d be really surprised if i did .
it ’ s a really horrible process , and honestly i just don ’ t want to go through it , and i don ’ t want to put my family through it .
" there 's no easy way to say this , " the detective started .
break out of groundhog day , cut carbon pollution and heal the climate usc brushes off sanctions to be no. 1 in ap top 25 southern california is no. 1 in the ap top 25 , tossing off the weight of ncaa sanctions and returning to a familiar place in the rankings .
big ten clarifies commisioner won 't have power to fire coaches harsh words , certainly , and heartbreaking for the young men who are at penn state now to play the game , but necessary . © 2012 usa today , a division of gannett co .
inc .
