home | about | search | site map | blog ( an rma is not required but helps expedite things for you ) we will send you a ups return shipping label ( by email ) to affix to the package dropthe package at any ups location , see www.ups.com ( be sure to include a copy of your receipt and instructions for refund or exchange ) - if you don 't want to use our prepaid label , or you live outside the us you can mail the products back with the carrier of your choice does it cost anything to return an item for a refund ?
what if i want to use usps or another carrier ? - we try to process refunds on the same business day we receive the item ( s ) , but it might take a few days to appear in your account what if i used a freight forwarding service to ship my items internationally ?
we treat our customers with care and respect , the same way we want to be treated .
we stand behind the products we sell 100 % . if for any reason you are not satisfied with your purchase simply return it for a full refund postscriptpostscript : urbaniak reid on who needs obamacarepostscript : cantor and the need for negotiationpostscript : editorial on nothing to show for the showdownpostscript : king and the new confederacypostscript : krauthammer and obama & # 8217 ; s shutdownview all tag poststhe insidersthe insiders : campaign finance charade enters supreme courtthe insiders : republicans have entered the danger zonethe insiders : it & # 8217 ; s time to end campaign contribution limitsthe insiders : the gop has given clinton the third leg of her candidacythe insiders : the world war ii memorial is not a political propview all tag posts new data on how the d.c. debt drama is impacting investor confidence between the antarctic circumpolar trough and the continent , a narrow ring of easterly winds exists .
cold winds flowing off the continent are diverted to the west as a result of the coriolis effect .
conditions here are often calmer and clearer than in the antarctic circumpolar trough .
the drake passage is the stretch of water between the most southerly tip of south america and the most northerly tip of the antarctic peninsula .
it has been described as the roughest stretch of water in the world .
it is the place where not only are there gale force winds that blow most of the time , but also where the " circumpolar current " is squeezed through its narrowest gap .
" antarctica is the coldest , highest , windiest , driest , and iciest continent on earth " using a mobile device ?
go to m.huffingtonpost.com for huffpost mobile .
if you have something to say ...
say it on the huffington post holder says the obvious -- the drug war is a war on minorities yet another study proves the war on drugs is failing moldovan prime minister iurie leanca urges for “ genuine engagement and commitment from outside ” in government ’ s attempts to find a peaceful and sustainable solution for the transnistrian conflict .
speaking from the united nations tribune in new york on thursday , iurie leanca pointed out that transnistria is a constant challenge for moldova that undermines the country ’ s development efforts .
“ the ... ( 9 / 27 / 2013 8 : 24 : 30 am ) a week ’ s worth of stateline 's original reporting and analysis of key state issues .
delivered on mondays .
site map | terms of use | privacy statement | copyright & trademark notice | eeo bar bistro owner eric poulin pours a milk stout nitro beer for a customer at bar bistro .
lui kit wong / staff photographera handful of restaurants have opened in the past six weeks and more are on the way .
today , i take a bite out of three .
one is a & # 8230 ; las vegas — saturday night ’ s wbo featherweight title fight can be a hallmark mark moment if puerto rico ’ s orlando cruz can defeat orlando salido and become the first openly gay boxer to win a world title .
are you interested in customizing a range of email alerts using advanced tools ?
if so , we suggest you use the inboxrobot .
bikers say that what happened off-camera led to run-in with suv driver in nyc chat transcripttv critic hank stuever on what ’ s good , what ’ s terrible and what you should be watching .
did you know there are 17 species of penguins in antarctica ?
localarkansas ' most wantedcounty by countyfamily healthneighborhood crime trackerhastings trial coverageeducation in arkansaslocal politicsnewslinksgood day arkansas90 seconds in the kitchenclass actfeel good fridayfox16 sweet 16mug shotsstatepoliticstalk politicscandidate trackermost popularfamily healthbreast self examhealth newsrace for the curewhat 's going arounddonna 's grief blogof interestfascinating factsthis day in historyslideshowsenvironmental newshealth newsnews calendarsnews right nowstate newsnewslinksslideshowshastings trial coverage the content has been reported and it will be reviewed by a moderator .
latam airlines got off to a bumpy start after it was formed by a merger last year .
but now it looks to be working out the problems .
why the stock could jump 20 % or more .
i have often wondered in the past few weeks why the establishment press has been so pro yellen and anti summers .
my suspicion is confirmed .
yellen is the driving force behind qe forever and summers is the skeptic .
on was continuation of bond buying the yellen fed 's first decision ?
all the state needs is the keys to the locks.- 1 : 55 pm videosnews galleriessports galleriespeople galleriesoutdoor galleriesthen and now galleriesevent galleriesseasonal galleriesall galleriessend us your photos are you currently a subscriber ? set up your digital access now .
log inare you currently a subscriber ?
set up your digital access now .
create an account or if you have a digital profile log in .
become a subscriber today to continue enjoying all of the products the spectrum has to offer or you can download any of the following supported modern browsers : news | obituaries | sports | opinion | multimedia | life | outdoors | help view the ' kings of the north ' in the polar bear capital of the world by day and enjoy the beautiful northern lights by night.save $ 1,013 per person .
encounter the king of the arctic — the polar bear — in its natural habitat , as you follow in the wake of viking explorers from the comfort of a luxury expedition vessel.receive free airfare ( value up to $ 1,700 per person ) .
encounter the king of the arctic — the polar bear — in its natural habitat , as you follow in the wake of viking explorers from the comfort of a luxury expedition vessel .
voyage on a luxury expedition cruise through the rugged coastal regions of greenland marveling at majestic icebergs and the glacier of disko bay.save up to $ 2,540 per person .
foreign companies urged to work with tanzanians na waryoba yankami ridge took the opportunity to mention 10 students that his company is sponsoring at the university of dar es salaam who are studying to expertise in the sector because despite oil and gas discovery , the country still has a shortage of experts .
each lesson is meant to show how color can be used on a map to illustrate randy dishmon of oppenheimer is beating the index by looking past p / e. the road less traveled has led him to monsanto , bank of america , and more .
morocco ’ s atlantic radio looks set for a major overhaul in a bid to stop a slide in its audience .
according to our sources , abdelmounaim dilami , ceo of eco-medias , which owns the station , ( ... )
according to our sources , a trio of equatorial guinean officials travelled to morocco at the beginning of september in a bid to settle a long-standing dispute with miloud chaabi , the ( ... )
morocco ’ s brand new energy and mines minister , fouad douiri , is one of the rare ( ... )
brunei boring ?
not to kiwi couple teaching locals the joys of rugby in brunei , pm emphasises on consensus over south china sea scott wrote , " amputation is the least i can hope for " and , " we shall stick it out until the end but we are getting weaker , of course , and the end cannot be far . "
us tsa official to present at state of the tourism industry conference in martinique snorkeling adventure at the end of the world - the bimini vortex commentary : one scapegoat does not fix liat or caribbean airlines commentary : the us war on communism , drugs , and terrorism in colombia jamaica 's health minister praises paho and who for support to caricom oecs spokespersons to learn to communicate key messages at seminar in grenada eccb celebrates 30 years of monetary and financial stability in the eccu montserrat presents on use of ict in disaster management at un eclac workshop vincentians to arrive in guyana to begin studies in agriculture usvi officials in panama to explore transshipment opportunities for st croix quintyne at her best as west indies women win big commentary : is the st lucia government rendering citizens impotent and frustrated ?
commentary : gop and the washington shutdown : will socialized medicine win ?
letter : caribbean politicians must address the wrongs of today before the wrongs of yesteryear firsthand 's landis is inclined to give the company a pass on the large issuance .
" increasing your float by 10 % is not something you can do every year , but for one year it might be appropriate . "
tiernan ray can be reached at tiernan.ray @ barrons.com or at blogs.barrons.com / techtraderdaily or www.twitter.com / barronstechblog if your kid needs remedial help and you all need to go on vacation , taking a tutor on the road might be the best solution .
the 17 lawmakers from the opposition uprona party and three cndd-fdd .
nobody can bet on his independence because he will be judge and jury , " the position of ombudsman was a provision of the 2000 it had not previously been filled due to the lack of the the ombudsman is meant to play a key role in crisis resolution and can also arbitrate corruption and rights cases if the judiciary by insecurity which the government blames on " armed bandits " who emerged after a by lauren r. rublina change appears to be under way in the markets .
our experts explain the risks , and highlight the opportunities .
in addition to the email and password combination you may have used to sign in to this site , we now offer the ability to sign in with other login providers you may already be using .
click the logo for one of the login providers to the left to get started !
msd allays public fear over shortage of arvs na queenter mawinda atripla drug which contained tenofovir 300mg , emtricitabine 200gm and efavirenz 600mg is an alternative drug recommended by the authorities for hiv treatment , he said .
the support and nurture of healthy , vibrant parishes is paramount to our efforts .
it is important to have a vision of what we want in parish life .
all proposals for the future will be faithful to the teachings of the catholic church .
each parish in one way or another is to have a pastor assigned to it who is responsible for the pastoral care of that parish .
( canon law 517 ) every effort should be made to provide opportunities for all members of the parish to be aware of and involved in the planning process .
les milices congolaises forceraient les civils à leur acheter des armes les milices congolaises forceraient les civils à leur acheter des dans l ’ est de la république démocratique du congo ( rdc ) , les groupes armés ont imposé une nouvelle loi aux familles des villages qu ’ ils contrôlent : chacune d ’ entre elles devra acheter une arme à feu auprès du groupe armé local , ce ne sont pas les armes qui manquaient déjà dans le masisi .
maintenant , et d ’ après de nombreuses personnes qui y ont fui la violence , posséder une arme à feu est devenu pratiquement une obligation dans certains des villages de ce ces personnes déplacées , qui appartiennent à différentes ethnies de la région , vivent dans un camp au village de shasha , non loin du masisi .
le soi-disant selon m. bonane , ceux qui essaient de retourner à leurs villages , pour s ’ occuper de leurs champs , se voient dire par les groupes armés qu ’ ils doivent acheter des armes à feu .
et une dizaine de ses compagnons , dont nyirumba vuleta , le m. vuleta affirme avoir été harcelé quand il est retourné à son village .
les hommes armés qui contrôlent le secteur lui ont dit que , puisqu ’ il a un champ , il doit avoir un fusil , et s ’ il n ’ en achète pas un , il devra partir .
mais ce n ’ est pas tout , explique m. bonane , il y a une troisième option : travailler comme un esclave .
selon lui , on force les villageois à acheter des fusils pour qu ’ ils puissent défendre leurs villages en cas d ’ attaque .
ceux qui ne se plient pas à cette décision sont obligés de travailler , sans paie , comme gardiens .
et si les désaccords avec le groupe armé local persistent , ils cette nouvelle loi sur les achats d ’ armes a été imposée en mai dans les territoires de masisi et de walikalé par les milices nyatura et raia mutomboki .
selon lui , des politiciens et certains officiers de l ’ armée fournissent ces armes , mais il a – comme beaucoup d ’ autres – refusé de s ’ armer , pour éviter parmi les politiciens identifiés par adolphe bonane : jean-bosco sebishimbo , un a la mission de l 'onu pour la stabilisation de la rdc , la monusco , une source dit qu ’ une équipe se rendra au camp de shasha pour enquêter sur ces allégations .
message de condoleances adresse aux familles vicimes des recents massacres de gatumba et au peuple burundais .
declaration du cndd au sujet de la question des negociations rapport du projet mapping concernant les violations les plus graves des droits de l ’ homme et du droit international humanitaire commises entre mars 1993 et juin 2003 sur le territoire de la république démocratique du congo memorandum sur les irregularites et fraudes massives des elections communales du 24 mai 2010 declaration du parti cndd au sujet de la greve des enseignants du primaire et du secondaire anglais | données | images | archives | contactez-nous | rendez-vous you will be redirected to the page you want to view inseconds .
the man touted as responsible for putting mesquite on the map and changing the face of the city through his marketing has chosen to retire from mesquite gaming as chief operating officer .
two words you should never say to a new mom newslocal newsbusinessdixie statenation & worldnews galleriesstory archiveoutdoorshiking guideexploreoutdoor tipsnational & state parksoutdoor galleriesobituariesplace an obituarymultimediavideosnews galleriessports galleriespeople galleriesoutdoor galleriesthen and now galleriesevent galleriesseasonal galleriesall galleriessend us your photossportsprep sportsoutdoorsgolflifefeaturesentertainmentfaithfamilycelebrationspeople galleriescomicspuzzleshoroscopesopinionblogs third-placed jkt ruvu are in morogoro where they are lined up against hosts mtibwa sugar in a match to be played at the manungu stadium .
relegation-haunted jkt oljoro are at home to visiting ruvu shooting inside arusha ’ s sheikh amri abeid stadium .
fifth-placed azam fc who are four points adrift of leaders simba host relegation-troubled mgambo jkt at their backyard of chamazi .
leaders simba and holders yanga will be in action on saturday as the former host tanzania prisons at the national stadium in dares salam while the later travel to bukoba on assignment against hosts kagera sugar at the kaitaba stadium .
a win for jkt ruvu in manungu this afternoon might tilt the premiership standings and push holders yanga to a step down the ladder .
azam fc can also make shake off the standings should they post a win at their chamazi base .
the candidates ’ views on some of the most pressing issues .
the ads released by cuccinelli and mcauliffe in the race .
sarvis won ’ t be in final debate of va. governor ’ s race ken cuccinelli ii and terry mcauliffe use campaign surrogates , illustrating their strengths and weaknesses .
the democrat releases a series of ads intended to highlight bipartisan backing .
the mcauliffe campaign says the gop gubernatorial rival has miscalculated those costs .
the libertarian ’ s standing in recent polls has to be at least 10 % to join , but which surveys count isn ’ t certain .
eventsrun , run as fast as you can10 things to do in the d.c. area on the weekend of oct .
10-13your taste of d.c. primerthere is still time to see a cranberry bog outside union stationexercise , then indulge in shake shack tonightview all tag postsdining + foodbars + drinksgot plans ? best bets enzo fargione hires a former chef geoff & # 8217 ; s toque to run the osteria elisir kitchen once you get past the salads and starters , the kitchen begins to reveal its flaws .
locked out of mari vanna ?
here & # 8217 ; s the key thing to know vocations and priestly formation > priesthoodpriesthood friday oct 11 , 2013 kuala lumpur , 10 okt ( bernama ) -- malaysia menggesa negara anggotapertubuhan bangsa bersatu ( pbb ) meningkatkan usaha untuk mencari penyelesaiankonkrit bagi menamatkan konflik keganasan dan mewujudkan persekitaran yangsesuai bagi pelaksanaan inisiatif pembangunan negara serta keamanan.wakil tetap malaysia di pbb datuk hussein hanif berkata pertumbuhan ekonomidan pembangunan sosial hanya boleh ... ( 10 / 10 / 2013 3 : 44 : 16 am ) los angeles , 9 okt ( bernama ) -- malaysia dijangka menjana rm168 biliondaripada ketibaan 36 juta pelancong disasarkan menjelang tahun 2020 dalam pelantransformasi pelancongan malaysia ( mttp ) , kata menteri pelancongan dankebudayaan datuk seri mohamed nazri abdul aziz .
beliau berkata pelancongan menjana pendapatan tukaran asing kedua terbesardan penyumbang ketujuh tertinggi kepada ekonomi ... ( 10 / 9 / 2013 1 : 19 : 38 am ) nosy be ( madagascar ) ( afp ) - a mob in madagascar lynched two europeans and a local man thursday suspecting them of murdering a young boy for his organs , the authorities and witnesses said . ( 10 / 3 / 2013 2 : 55 : 37 pm ) people who had lined themselves up for travel to upcountry destinations await fare refunds and updates at dar es salaam 's ubungo bus terminal yesterday .
( photo : correspondent atuza nkurlu ) the bus operators were pressing the government to reinstate the five percent allowable weight tolerance on overloaded buses .
according to investigation , some of the busses which did not take part in the strike included dar express , kilimanjaro express and metro bus service .
the blockade of libya ’ s oil facilities , initially driven by “ wage ” demands by former rebels in charge of protecting them , is now complicated by tribal factors .
the government ’ s powerlessness in responding to ibrahim al jadhran ( see opposite ) whose men have been blocking the es sider , ras lanuf , zuweitina and marsa al hariga oil terminals since the end of july , can be explained by the fact he belongs to the mgharba tribe . ( ... )
lawmakers in d.c. and its maryland suburbs unite in a plan to raise the hourly minimum to $ 11.50 by 2016 .
d.c. overcharged on gas tax ; refund up to gas stations if you filled up in d.c. last week , you probably paid too much — and probably won ’ t see a refund .
the d.c. living wage act set hourly minimums at $ 12.50 in 2010 , but they haven ’ t been touched since .
city lawmakers at work tuesday stood out in a city quieted by the federal government ’ s shutdown .
in a bid to avoid shutdown , feds are told all workers are ’ essential to ... public safety , health , and property . ’
for just $ 20 more than a nexus 7 , you can get a tablet that is also a game ... venturebeat - by jeffrey grubbintroducing the three in one sunflex unu – a tablet revolution in the makinghighlight presssee all 15 sourcesrelated android sony ceo says smartphone sights not set on u.s. or chinagigaomsony claims it doesn 't have major plans for the chinese and american marketsthe droid guysee all 33 sourcesrelated sony corporation apple ios 7 battery drain : how to fix itabc2 newssix hidden features of ios7news.com.ausee all 203 sourcesrelated ios abc newssee realtime coveragetale of the tape : acer c720 chromebook versus hp chromebook 11los angeles timesoct 10 , 2013written bysalvador rodrigueznot one but two new chromebooks went on sale this week , the hp chromebook 11 and , as of thursday , the acer c720 chromebook .
both machines run google 's operating system , but how do they stack up ? hp , acer reveal uk chromebook prices , as chromecast arrives in europezdnetchrome steals a march on windowsbbc news - by rory cellan-jonesin depth : a lot to like about the new hp chromebook 11forbessee all 402 sourcesrelated : chromebooks mad catz m.o.j.o. android console will stream pc games to your tvjoseph volpeif you use google services , you could become an ad next monthjoseph volpeblackberry z30 reviewdaniel coopersamsung is not buying a fingerprint scanning company , ' completely false ' ... daniel coopertwitter 's event parrot claims to be an experiment in breaking news ... richard lawlerlearn morespotlight richard t. dykema , rohrabacher ’ s chief of staff , told the los angeles times that the congressman is " expected to show up for work during the shutdown ’ ’ and expects to be paid .
" i am speaking , voting and working diligently to help my constituents through the shutdown and speak on their behalf in washington to reopen the government .
i will not be donating or forgoing my salary . "
aides said the senator was a definite no on the idea of refusing or donating his pay during the shutdown .
president inaugurates two ambulance boats in rufiji na david kisanga president jakaya kikwete has inaugurated two ambulance boats valued at 122m / - donated by the ifakara health institute ( ihi ) to the rufiji municipal council to serve the villages of nyamisati and mbwera .
he pledged more government aid to ihi in an effort to improve healthcare in the country .
father james bissonette is the diocese ’ s vicar general .
he has expertise in canon law and experience as pastor of clustered parishes in marble / taconite and carlton / cromwell / wright .
liz hoefferle is a former director of religious education and a member of the bishop ’ s committee on catechesis for the diocese of duluth .
at navy yard , the ‘ cube farm ’ had settled into its reassuring monday routine .
then , a jolt .
state commissioners ask epa for stricter vehicle and fuel standards maple icing joins chopped bacon on top of a soft yeast donut .
it ’ s not the best bacon in the universe ; it ’ s not the best donut in existence either .
but it ’ s there , together , living harmoniously for the pleasure of all who choose to bathe in its salty , greasy , sweet , and seductive light .
it turns out that republican leaders did not blunder into the cataclysm that faces the nation over the budget and the debt but merely followed the script written by a few of the country 's richest and angriest men .
the bedrock of the lawsuit is the arkansas constitution .
from the aclu 's release : the dismal economic realities of the northwoods subdivision after the exxon spill if the link you clicked was incorrect , click the back button on your browser to return to the last page you visited , or click the link below to go to the home page .
snow is a valuable storehouse of information to a glaciologist .
as it is slowly compacted and recrystallized by subsequent snowfalls , it forms a historical record .
gore vs. lenzner : who ’ s the real oliver of ’ love story ’ ?
carolyn hax : is there benefit in apologizing to a wronged ex ?
jacqueline kantor & # 32 ; the patuxent community rallied around rafiq douglas and his brother in a time of need .
now the panthers ’ star running back is excelling for his community .
letters of interest | the potomac school ’ s jalen broome is the dc area ’ s leading rusher at the season ’ s midway point .
jonathan haden ran for 108 yards and a touchdown to lead the knights in win top-ranked stags use big plays to shut out the falcons , 21-0 .
richie petitbon , who led redskins ’ defense in team ’ s glory years , keeps an eye on his grandson ’ s flourishing career at gonzaga .
why did leonsis say he does not & # 039 ; see any weaknesses & # 039 ; with the caps ?
prized recruit da ’ shawn hand of woodbridge is preparing for his final season of high school football — and the end of his childhood. weenerlips : look up the search term " general smedley butler usmc " and the republicans have the mores and morals of somali pirates .
the solution for the gop is a long term slog but not all that difficult : btw , are there any pollsters trying to fathom how much of the tea party dysfunction is the result of homeschooled and homeschooling voters who are either literally ignorant in the first case and actively attempting to filter out information that they don 't want to have to believe in the latter case ?
until we get the money out of politics , our government , which is now run by the 1 % , will continue to slide into a depression !
why is no one talking about getting the corrupt money out of politics !
here 's a thought : let 's pretend for a moment that is wasn 't the unwillingness to accept the aca is a law , that caused the shutdown .
let 's pretend that the shutdown came down out of the sky - now it 's up to you -dreamy blue eyed mr. boehner to save us all , take the high road , be the bigger man , bite the tongue , end the shutdown and be the hero ! = lots of good press = may even save the gop = think of the possibilities ! ! !
he 'd be a handsome man if he would lose the " baggage " under those eyes .
the crazy part about all of this , is that this has nothing to do with the american people .. it has everything to do with the insane people we elect who use every way they can to push the agenda of the big corps who have bought and run most of our nations ...
we all suffer because of elected officials who are paid off and bought .
it 's how the gop game is played ..... create chaos and blame it on the black guy .
obama thanks new zealand pm for successful chairmanship of tpp meeting the news ticker , which is broadcasted through kuna ’ s internet website , is transferred to the subscriber ’ s website .
it includes the main headlines and the latest in news developments .
the monthly fee for the subscription is 50 kd as long as it is not less than three months .
the subscriber can choose one or both of the two categories : try another request or click here to search for all pages on see the faqs for more info and help , or contact us .
by conor humphries and padraic halpin dublin ( reuters ) - ireland 's international lenders have given it the green light to ease up on austerity in its 2014 budget , the government said on tuesday , easing ... ( 10 / 8 / 2013 2 : 41 : 47 pm ) ireland bucks trend by increasing income tax for top earners any hopes that ireland had of recouping some of the money it put into its banks , or having the banks borrow to cover any shortfall that shows up in the current asset tests , appear to be dashed by the big german political parties . ( 10 / 10 / 2013 9 : 12 : 35 pm ) if fishing was not discontinued .
canada has been worried about the overfishing geese on their annual migration , by imprinting the chicks on the aircraft. not seen in alaskan waters but the summer 's warmer-than-usual temperature a type of arctic sandpiper , has been dying off in " astounding numbers " shackleton grew up with the unique self-confidence that is the priceless gift of privilege , or a colonial upbringing , however poor the purse .
a male in an overwhelmingly female household ernest ran the risk of being crushed .
he did not at any rate have even submissive temperament , in an irish idiom , he was " down in the cellar or up in the garret " .
in spite of this , his many sisters , to quote one of them , eleanore , " all adored him " .
he had already learned to charm his womenfolk into submission .
with his mobile and expressive face , he was the picture of intensity .
shackleton enlisted in the navy at the age of fourteen , the age limit for entry at that time .
" my father thought to cure me of my predilection for the sea by letting me go in the most primitive manner possible as a ' boy ' on board a sailing ship at a shilling a month ! "
shackleton himself recalls .
razorbacksone moore thoughtask a wildlife officerhogs & sec videolocal sportsnhlstatisticsstandingsfull schedulemlbfull schedulestandingsstatisticsnflstandingsfull schedulestatisticsnbafull schedulestatisticsstandingscollegecollege basketballcollege footballncaa videomore sportspgageneral sports newswnbatennislpganascarsoccerindy racing leagueraceweekpgafearless friday if you would like to sign up for the bse reminder , click here .
are you looking for flood , drought , earthquake or storm information ?
febronia kitundu from hombolo in dodoma applauded tma for the initiative .
he said farmers in his region are now much happier with their out put and potential income .
how a decade at war is changing the u.s. military .
what is the opcw , which has won the nobel peace prize , and what does it do ?
london 's cheapside hoard is a trove of 17th-century jewelry with mysterious origins peru 's imprisoned ex-president uses loophole to go on twitter , youtube to get messages out the state of cyclone preparedness in the two states - andhra and odisha -- will it be a study in contrast ?
or has odisha caught up ?
“ uber by its name alone is selling a type of car service , ” the commissioners wrote . “ because uber is profiting from this service , it should be held responsible if the driver is negligent or not applying uber safe practices . ”
angel moroni tops spire at payson temple thu oct 10 , 2013 9 : 27 pm edt toys of yesteryear are on display at peteetneet museum in payson thu oct 10 , 2013 9 : 27 pm edt powell ’ s father-in-law to be released next month thu oct 10 , 2013 5 : 27 pm edt feds agree to let states pay to reopen national parks thu oct 10 , 2013 3 : 27 pm edt new polls show utahns are against fighting obamacare ; sen. lee won ’ t discuss it fri oct 11 , 2013 01 : 27 am edt utah ’ s national parks to reopen friday thu oct 10 , 2013 11 : 27 pm edt hand-written bible collection on display at byu mon oct 7 , 2013 01 : 27 am edt another conference session comes to a close for the lds church sun oct 6 , 2013 11 : 27 pm edt bountiful family fundraising for son ’ s funeral costs sun oct 6 , 2013 7 : 27 pm edt dad on cross-country trek to honor his son is killed on the road fri oct 11 , 2013 01 : 27 am edt where do your rights end ?
fri oct 11 , 2013 01 : 27 am edt princeton : hammer sound led to report of gunshots fri oct 11 , 2013 01 : 27 am edt environmental group sues epa to enforce clean air law thu oct 10 , 2013 7 : 27 pm edt this guy ’ s ready for the return of zombies and ’ the walking dead ’ fri oct 11 , 2013 01 : 27 am edt inside our schools fri oct 11 , 2013 01 : 27 am edt no comments on this topic yet .
be the first one to submit a comment. provide .
if the address is not valid or you don 't click on the validation villa maria sees benefits of say yes fri oct 11 , 2013 02 : 21 am edt these are the most cost-effective school districts in upstate new york fri oct 11 , 2013 12 : 21 am edt here are the five-star overachievers among upstate school districts fri oct 11 , 2013 12 : 21 am edt upstate new york cost-effectiveness standings for 2013 fri oct 11 , 2013 12 : 21 am edt dunkirk leery of water board fri oct 11 , 2013 02 : 21 am edt case of west nile virus confirmed in gasport man fri oct 11 , 2013 02 : 21 am edt clerks to state : lift fee for veterans ’ licenses fri oct 11 , 2013 12 : 21 am edt motorcyclist seriously injured in accident thu oct 10 , 2013 6 : 21 pm edt joe hollywood had a bizarre and violent past fri oct 11 , 2013 12 : 21 am edt trader joe ’ s set to open friday morning thu oct 10 , 2013 4 : 21 pm edt buffalo : corian capital of the world thu oct 10 , 2013 12 : 21 pm edt family time : tips for conceiving thu oct 10 , 2013 10 : 21 am edt nt teen appears in court fri oct 11 , 2013 04 : 21 am edt ghosts of nt ’ s past fri oct 11 , 2013 04 : 21 am edt accused robbers get day in court fri oct 11 , 2013 04 : 21 am edt airbase advocates seek nt support thu oct 10 , 2013 04 : 21 am edt trader joe ’ s to open friday thu oct 10 , 2013 04 : 21 am edt do you remember oct .
10 ?
thu oct 10 , 2013 04 : 21 am edt mi6 plan to spirit gaddafi out of libya so he could live out his days beyong the reach of international courts responding to salmonella outbreak , cdc recalls furloughed expertswashington post - by max ehrenfreundsalmonella outbreak debacle continues for foster farmsnews channel dailyin depth : poultry plants linked to outbreak won 't be closedlos angeles timessee all 239 sourcesrelated salmonella vitamin d as prevention of osteoporosis may be inappropriatehealiostudy repots vitamin d ineffective for bone healthcounsel & healsee all 45 sourcesrelated vitamin d scientists : sprite is the best hangover curetimebest cure for a hangover ?
sprite , scientists claimtelegraph.co.uksee all 126 sourcesrelated sprite shutdown prompts u.s. envoy in london to back out of glitzy cocktail party in his honor .
in the loop : a little advice for the d.c. lovelorn " states are not in a position to be the bank for the federal government , " they argue .
now ’ that girl , ’ midshipman plans to gut out her time at naval academy — no matter the outcome of the case .
the typically beefy daily diary of what the government is up to is a ghost of its old self these days .
rice has the experience and interest for a leadership role in sports why we aren 't talking about all of the problems with the obamacare exchanges .
sjc considers warrants for cellphone records fri oct 11 , 2013 05 : 15 am edt review : thomas ads conducts the bso at symphony hall fri oct 11 , 2013 03 : 15 am edt daily talker : sweet caroline at sox games so good ?
so bad ?
replace it ?
fri oct 11 , 2013 05 : 15 am edt i dont need sleep , i need answers .
i need to determine where in this swamp of unbalanced formulas squatteth the toad of truth . fri oct 11 , 2013 01 : 15 am edt verlander sends tigers past as in game 5 gem fri oct 11 , 2013 01 : 15 am edt sox will face tigers for al championship fri oct 11 , 2013 01 : 15 am edt hilltop steakhouse in saugus closing oct .
21 thu oct 10 , 2013 9 : 15 pm edt tjx plans expansion in framingham thu oct 10 , 2013 11 : 15 pm edt two sites eyed in buzzards bay for underground wastewater disposal fri oct 11 , 2013 03 : 15 am edt coast guard trains cape first responders on rescue ops at sea fri oct 11 , 2013 03 : 15 am edt lunenburg solar-power plans still up in the air fri oct 11 , 2013 05 : 15 am edt southborough ’ s heritage day turns 40 fri oct 11 , 2013 01 : 15 am edt man charged in natick following argument with his wife fri oct 11 , 2013 01 : 15 am edt new poll gives coakley lead in ’ 14 gov race thu oct 10 , 2013 5 : 15 pm edt lha quiet on contract issue thu oct 10 , 2013 09 : 15 am edt southcoast bets on short-term shutdown thu oct 3 , 2013 01 : 15 am edt photo : ready to ramble thu oct 10 , 2013 1 : 15 pm edt new $ 100 bills are out , but not available in berkshire county , yet thu oct 10 , 2013 1 : 15 pm edt colors of fall thu oct 10 , 2013 01 : 15 am edt chicopee ’ s collegian court restaurant reopens following facelift thu oct 10 , 2013 11 : 15 pm edt bikers in new york city assault say off-camera acts led to run-in with suv driver thu oct 10 , 2013 11 : 15 pm edt james hansmann of agawam pleads guilty to mail fraud , tax evasion thu oct 10 , 2013 11 : 15 pm edt forumripken too & # 8216 ; selfish & # 8217 ; to be nationals manager ? two takes on cal ripken to the nationalsdusty baker interested in managing the nationalsrevisiting the preseason best and worst casesnationals positional review , part 5 : relieversview all tag postsscheduleleague leadersstandings if the facebook pop-up does not appear automatically , please click here to try again.privacy policy | customer centerlive helpminimizecloseneed assistance ?
you certify that you are at least 13 years of age .
if you are under the age of 13 , please do not submit any content to us .
if you are under the age of 18 but at least 13 years of age , you may submit content only with the permission of , and under the supervision of , a parent or legal guardian .
if you are a parent or legal guardian agreeing to these rules for the benefit of an individual between the ages of 13 and 18 , please be advised that you are fully responsible for his or her submissions and any legal liability that he or she may incur .
you acknowledge and agree any use and / or reliance on any information obtained through the interactive forums at your own risk .
we are not in any manner endorsing the content of the interactive forums and cannot and will not vouch for its reliability .
for more information on the revised translations , see the usccb 's committee ondivine liturgywebsite.looking for diocese of duluth 's own resources for implementing the roman missal , third edition ?
click on " praying the mass anew " on the left .
kuwaiti ambassador to the netherlands hosts luncheon for qatari counterpart new kuwaiti delegate to un mission in geneva submits credentials health official : kuwait may use exams to ' detect ' gay expatriates duluth mn 55806please use this form to subscribe to one or more of our email lists .
you can easily unsubscribe at any time by following the instructions included in every message .
be one of the first to know when a contest is announced on fox16.com.
remember : you can unsubscribe at any time by following the instructions provided in every message .
carolyn hax : parents need to respect a son ’ s right to enlist — and chart his own life a woman is torn between respecting her son ’ s choice and her husband ’ s vehement opposition to son ’ s service .
september 30 , 2013 carolyn hax : don ’ t try to get a child to conform to gender expectations a grandparent worries about a girl ’ s tomboy tendencies .
advice ?
love her unconditionally .
september 27 , 2013 favorite columns what makes a marriage happy and lasting ? what do stay-at-home moms do all day ?
the hax philes carolyn taps into her inbox , so you can be hax , too .
cheap eats anyone ?
portland ’ s top spots revealed fri oct 11 , 2013 02 : 24 am edt one pacificcoast deal for albina bank closes thu oct 10 , 2013 8 : 24 pm edt eat here now : mothers bistro chef on why newcomers need to bring it thu oct 10 , 2013 6 : 24 pm edt how phil knight ’ s $ 1 billion cancer challenge ’ screwed the band ’ thu oct 10 , 2013 4 : 24 pm edt the price of addiction : how a new er tool will track drug abusers and save money oregon tax worker accused of counterfeiting currency fri oct 11 , 2013 12 : 24 am edt man accused of sexually abusing 16-year-old girl for years thu oct 10 , 2013 8 : 24 pm edt making your kid smarter ?
there ’ s an app for that thu oct 10 , 2013 6 : 24 pm edt father killed on walk to honor bullied son who committed suicide thu oct 10 , 2013 4 : 24 pm edt father killed on walk to honor gay son who committed suicide thu oct 10 , 2013 2 : 24 pm edt or dad killed on walk honoring dead gay son thu oct 10 , 2013 10 : 24 pm edt man arrested in damascus for child sex abuse thu oct 10 , 2013 10 : 24 pm edt terri & kaine horman battle it out in divorce court thu oct 10 , 2013 8 : 24 pm edt clatsop commissioners reject lng project thu oct 10 , 2013 8 : 24 pm edt tardy fine slapped on late parents fri oct 23 , 2009 12 : 24 pm edt sinking section of eastbank esplanade closed for repairs mon nov 9 , 2009 4 : 24 pm est man arrested in kelso shooting mon oct 7 , 2013 12 : 24 pm edt sw corridor plan stirs up controversy mon oct 7 , 2013 12 : 24 pm edt timbers draw 2-2 with whitecaps mon oct 7 , 2013 10 : 24 am edt pendleton woman fires handgun after skateboarder bashes her on the head : late-night news roundup fri oct 11 , 2013 02 : 24 am edt washougal woman , dog recovering after being hit by car in hazel dell fri oct 11 , 2013 02 : 24 am edt fire rips through milwaukie home fri oct 11 , 2013 12 : 24 am edt then within a few minutes , six guys with sub machine guns are ordered to shoot all at once , and all of the sudden , the poor soul goes to a point of no return all in the name of the capital punishment .
that is what has just happened to john , ( not his real name ) as he was forced to choose over how he wanted his death sentence carried out and sadly he had opted for squad shooting on account that he had made a living out of guns and that he would not allow people to put him to sleep in the name of lethal injection , all of these punishment being done in the usa , one of the supposedly civilized country in the world , yet they are the messengers of death .
the horrifying account above are some of the few videos that were displayed for staff members of the lhrc on yesterday october as they marked the world ’ s day against the death penalty . no one wanted the video replayed due to the horror and one could imagine how the person pulling a trigger or a rope or a winch felt thereafter .
we are not in charge of giving life and we should not imitate those who kill others . no one should take away one ’ s life for any reason whatsoever .
in uk they used to hang one for pickpockets , and condoning it means you may tend to find justifiable reasons , treason , poaching and eventually rape and all that . there will be no way that you will ever stop it and a ruler may decide to take life for any reasons they may feel .
as we mark october 10 , let us not succumb to being messengers of death let us stop crime and not lives .
you got the nerve to fly my american flag , but coward in the shadow of syria , but have the nerve to fly red , white , and blue .
we are the protectors of israel and we are the world 's police like it or not .... we kick ass and cross of names .... we will make a pot hole out of that hell hole , and deal with the rebels too .
i am true red white and blue .... b easy .
what about the prophecies of nostradamus and the end of the mayan calendar ?
there was talk of 2012 being the end of the world .
here are some bible verses that shed some light on what we can expect and the signs of the end of the world .
and this gospel of the kingdom will be preached in the whole world as a testimony to all nations , and then the end will come . * its funny to me how all of the armchair politicians have so much to say about our president and this government .
syria has used chemical weapons on civilians they need to be dealt with. someone has to have the courage to stand up and take action .
i am proud to have obama as our leader .
how produce cess has created menace to struggling tanzania farmers na mashaka mgeta article 6.1 ( t ) of the act says , all moneys derived from any cess payable at source on any agricultural or other , produced in the area of the urban authority imposed under this act ... "
but not all crops in the country are in the list to get input subsidies offered by the government , but beneficial farmers contribute half of the costs of all inputs , up to more than 120,000 / - .
" farmers were not tax deductible of any kind , except for traders who buy buy crops and transport outside the region & rdquo ; says mpwehwe .
director of tagrode , zubery mwachulla , explained that the country ’ s by-laws provide an overview of the use of produce cess , used for the improvement of the sector .
jamal nkelemi ( 47 ) is one of the farmers in the village of mgera in iringa rural , who made it clear that he is one of the victims of this malpractice .
farmers in the villages of mgera and mawere who rely on irrigation farming are not in the list of beneficiaries of subsidized inputs provided by the government .
however farmers responded with harshness to veo kadinde , blaming him for creating ' friendly environment ’ for corruption and misuse of the public office in the distribution of agricultural inputs .
muwope newadi , a farmers who is also chairman of the neighbouring village of ilala c , golda david and grace mata and clemence buma complained on how people with poor or low economic status fail to access subsidized inputs .
" there was a time when i qualified for the subsidized inputs but when i arrived at the agent ’ s premises , he told me that everything was finished , & rdquo ; he lamented .
mericho mdemu ( 57 ) refers the supply of subsidized inputs as ' shameful exercise ’ because most of farmers do not access them .
moses said there was a problem of counterfeit seeds for the last two years tamwa tabled its recommendation to the constitutional review committee in january .
among its recommendations was for the new constitution to ensure an end to customs , traditions and laws that give room for the perpetuation of gender based violence in the country .
location : halley stands on the brunt ice shelf .
this flows off the antarctic continent into the weddell sea at a rate of 2m per day , breaking off at the edge to form giant icebergs .
measurements are taken of the ice of antarctica beneath , of the air in the troposphere above , of the ozone in the stratosphere above that , and of the plasma in the geospace beyond them all .
no drones stationed in curacao or aruba , says us consulate aruba to host international conference on combating and preventing crime 7.president obama 's cousin to run for congress as a tea party member 25.coca-cola bottler arca retreats on report of higher proposed tax the only way to grasp the impact of the nsa surveillance program is to see it as a wholesale repeal of the fourth amendment .
the only way to grasp the impact of the nsa surveillance program is to see it as a wholesale repeal of the fourth amendment .
mkutano wa tathimini ya uchumi wa afrika kwa mwaka 2013 / 14 new leadership at the gsa : a conversation with dan tangherlini we reserve the right to change these terms of service or to impose new conditions on use of the site , from time to time , in which case we will post the revised terms of service on this website and update the " last updated " date to reflect the date of the changes .
if we make a material change to the terms of service , we will not enforce the material change retroactively ( i.e. , to use of the site occurring before the change ) unless we notify you by posting a prominent notice of the change on the home or landing page of the site or otherwise notify you of the changes so you may elect whether to accept the changes by continuing to use the site , or terminate your account . by continuing to use the site after we post any such changes or notify you of any material changes , you accept the terms of service , as modified .
we also reserve the right to deny access to the site or any features of the site to anyone who violates these terms of service or who , in our sole judgment , interferes with the ability of others to enjoy our website or infringes the rights of others .
to use certain features of our site , you will need a username and password to create an account .
we reserve the right to reject or terminate the use of any username that we deem offensive or inappropriate .
in addition , we also reserve the right to terminate the use of any username or account , or to deny access to the site or any features of the site , to anyone who violates these terms of service or who , in our sole judgment , interferes with the ability of others to enjoy our website or infringes the rights of others .
you are responsible for maintaining the confidentiality of the password and account , and are responsible for all activities ( whether by you or by others ) that occur under your password or account .
you agree to notify us immediately of any unauthorized use of your password or account or any other breach of security , and to ensure that you exit from your account at the end of each session .
we cannot and will not be liable for any loss or damage arising from your failure to protect your password or account information .
the site shall not be liable for any loss or expense that results from an error in or omission of an advertisement .
no refunds for early cancellation of order .
our site may permit users to post , and search for , job openings .
we do not knowingly accept listings regarding employment that are not for bona fide job opportunities .
we also do not knowingly accept listings that discriminate or intend to discriminate on any illegal basis , or that are otherwise illegal .
if you think that a listing posted on our site discriminates on any illegal basis , or is otherwise illegal , please contact us .
we encourage you to investigate fully and understand all aspects of any job you are considering .
the information contained in any company directories that may be provided on the site is provided for business lookup purposes and is not to be used for marketing or telemarketing applications .
this information may not be copied or redistributed and is provided " as is " without warranty of any kind .
in no event will we or our suppliers be liable in any way with regard to such information .
we reserve the right at any time and from time to time to modify or discontinue , temporarily or permanently , the site , or any portion thereof , with or without notice .
you agree that we will not be liable to you or to any third party for any modification , suspension or discontinuance of the site or any portion thereof .
we do not warrant or make any representations regarding the use or the results of the use of the site or materials on this site or on third-party sites in terms of their correctness , accuracy , timeliness , reliability or otherwise .
you acknowledge that the provisions of this section are a material inducement and consideration to us to grant the license contained in this terms of service and to provide you with access to the site and services .
you agree that , in our sole discretion , we may suspend or terminate your password , account ( or any part thereof ) or use of the site , or any part of the site , and remove and discard any materials that you submit to the site , at any time , for any reason , without notice .
you agree that we will not be liable to you or any third-party for any suspension or termination of your password , account ( or any part thereof ) or use of the site , or any removal of any materials that you have submitted to the site .
in the event that we suspend or terminate your access to and / or use of the site , you will continue to be bound by the terms of service that were in effect as of the date of your suspension or termination .
" it 's not clear what the official law on the books states , but in any case , marijuana , which is known as ' yoksam ' in north korea , is not prioritized by the government and is therefore not treated as an illegal drug , " park continued .
why would people in a nation without any food want to smoke ganja ?
what do you do for the munchies ?
go figure in north korea of all places , marijuana is legal .
now who was calling who a communist .
the axis of evil grows more tempting by the day ............
" it hardly behooves the first of us / to criticize the rest of us ! "
just goes to show that sanity can crop up in the strangest of places ...
mizzuru : i & # 039 ; m completly for legalization and everything but this isn & # 039 ; t an how red crabs on christmas island speak for the tropics cote d 'ivoire : cã ´ te d 'ivoire becomes latest country to accede to statelessness conventions a fun thing to do in -60 ° f cold weather is to throw a pot of boiling water into the air .
often , a solar halo is formed around the sun by the ice crystals in the air .
air of different temperatures refracts light in different ways .
mirages are commonly seen on the horizon in the winter or at the end of winter when the sea-ice has just broken up .
they are a result of temperature differences in the bottom few yards just above the ice or sea surface .
this is the same phenomena responsible for " heat haze " as seen above a road on a very hot day .
ice blink refers to a white glare seen on the underside of low clouds indicating the presence of ice which may be beyond the range of vision .
a corona is a ring of deflected light that surrounds the sun or moon , sometimes forming a colorful disk with the sun or moon at its center .
a fog bow is similar to a rainbow , but without any colors due to the very small size of the water droplets .
" democracy is the art of running the circus from the monkey cage . " -- h.l. mencken do americans approve of the filibuster ?
depends who is filibustering & # 8230 ; .
presidential unilateralism could set a troubling precedent - but will obama have a choice ?
if you thought the stars of " jackass " had to be on drugs in order to perform their brand of idiocy , you might be right -- at least in the case of johnny knoxville , who recently revealed he was spiked with ecstasy during filming .
knoxville did sustain an injury during the drug-induced shoot , however .
he went on to say he ruptured a tendon in his finger " either bursting through a table or climbing up a net . "
perhaps that explains the cast he donned at the movie 's london premiere on wednesday night .
[ newsweek , 2011 ] nicolas cage " i had a bag of mushrooms in my refrigerator .
my cat used to sneak into the refrigerator and eat them . ...
he ate them voraciously ; it was like catnip to him .
so i thought , ' what the heck , i better do it with him . '
i remember lying on my bed for hours and lewis was on the desk across my bed for hours , and we just stared at each other -- not moving , just staring at each other , and i had no doubt that he was my brother .
but having said that , i don 't do that anymore .
and you know what ?
later in life , when i was completely not doing any of that , i know he said ' hi ' to me . "
" the huffington post " is a registered trademark of thehuffingtonpost.com , inc .
all rights reserved.burundi réalités retour des rivalités ethniques au burundi sur fond de conflits fonciers retour des rivalités ethniques au burundi sur fond de conflits à qui appartient cette terre ?
c 'est la question à laquelle la cntb au burundi doit répondre quand le propriétaire , chassé par la guerre , rentre au c ’ est une épine sur le chemin de la réconciliation au burundi .
la recrudescence des conflits fonciers nés du rapatriement des réfugiés hutus .
durant les années de crise , et au cours des différentes guerres interethniques qu ’ a connues le pays , près de 700 000 burundais hutus ont fui pour se réfugier à l ’ étranger .
depuis 2002 , une grande partie d ’ entre eux a été rapatriée .
mais à leur retour , les terres ou maisons qu ’ ils possédaient étaient occupées .
pour la première fois depuis des années , un quartier de la capitale du burundi a été la scène d ’ émeutes aux relents ethniques à l ’ occasion de la restitution d 'une maison à une famille hutue spoliée il y a 40 ans .
cela s 'est passé le mardi 28 mai .
en charge de la résolution de ces conflits : la commission nationale des terres et autres biens ( cntb ) .
son rôle : régler les la plupart des litiges concernent des familles qui ont fui le pays en 1972 , il y a plus de 40 ans .
sur 30 000 dossiers enregistrés , la cntb revendique 22 000 cas réglés , dont plus de 60 & percnt à l ’ amiable .
mais elle est controversée : une partie de l ’ opinion publique l ’ accuse de raviver les tensions ethniques en privilégiant les rapatriés hutus dans ses décisions , sans tenir compte de l ’ éventuelle bonne foi des nouveaux occupants .
car qu 'ils soient tutsi ou hutus , ils ont parfois acquis leur bien en toute légalité et ne reçoivent aucune le gouvernement semble avoir pris la mesure du malaise et envisagerait une réforme du système .
d ’ autant que jusqu ’ à présent , la commission s 'est concentrée sur les conflits concernant les parcelles de terre , jugés les plus urgents .
mais près de 200 000 autres plaintes sont encore en attente .
elles concernent des maisons , des voitures ou comptes en banque .
un vaste chantier de nature , craignent certains , à saper un processus de réconciliation déjà bien mal en by reshma kapadia latam airlines got off to a bumpy start after it was formed by a merger last year .
but now it looks to be working out the problems .
why the stock could jump 20 % or more .
by thomas g. donlanis it time to sell america short ?
by jonathan buckthe longer the impasse in congress goes on , the more opportunities there may be to buy government-spending-sensitive european stocks on the dips .
lenovo came out of nowhere to become the global leader in pcs .
now it 's got its sights set on samsung and apple in smartphones and tablets .
according to folks who get the economy , stopping the use of extraordinary measures is good .
yet another display of the lunacy gripping the house republican party caucus .
see results | disclaimerthis is a non-scientific user poll .
results are not statistically valid and cannot be assumed to reflect the views of washington post users as a group or the general population .
' it 's very good news ' malala didn 't win the nobel peace prize : pakistani talibannbcnews.com ( blog ) shot by the taliban a year ago , malala was a favorite for the nobel peace prizecnnopinion : malala yousafzai is inspiring , but i hope she doesn 't win the nobel peace prizethe guardiansee all 801 sourcesrelated malala yousafzai former nazi ss captain dies in italy at the age of 100irish timesnazi war criminal priebke dies at 100cnn internationalfrom italy : erich priebke dies in romewanted in romein depth : nazi war criminal erich priebke dies , aged 100wall street journalwikipedia : erich priebkesee all 76 sourcesrelated erich priebke gadhafi intelligence chief 's war crimes trial should be in libya : iccctv newsicc defers gaddafi aide trial to libya in historic firstcapital fm kenyasee all 43 sourcesrelated muammar al-gaddafi car bomb strikes swedish consulate in libya 's benghazibbc newscar bomb explodes outside swedish consulate in libyavoice of americasee all 97 sourcesrelated benghazi kiwi witness to battle for cairo streetsnew zealand heraldmorsi supporters protest in cairo but avoid tahrir squaredeutsche wellesee all 51 sourcesrelated mohamed morsi the offer comes on the 11th day of the government shutdown .
" among them is a plan to raise the cost of medicare for better-off beneficiaries . "
citizen441242 : oh the humanity !
the suffering masses !
the unforgivable crime of the elections are coming soon and the american people will not forget all the troubles the gop are creating to the country .
pharmacan : < blockquote > < p > < b > in addition to ending the shutdown and increasing the how are the new fall tv shows ?
sorry you asked !
tv review | an hour-long tribute to cory monteith brings out the fox show ’ s best and worst traits .
the media-shy rapper arrived on jimmy kimmel ’ s abc talk show with a lot of things on his mind .
tv review | jessica lange returns for the third version , set in new orleans .
but where ’ s the magic ?
plus , mtv ’ s ’ big tips texas ’ and directv ’ s ’ full circle ’ debut .
miley week : catch up on the madness leading up to ’ bangerz ’ miley ’ s been in the news all the time , thanks to an & ldquo ; snl & rdquo ; hosting gig and twitter feud with sinead o ’ connor .
plus , & ldquo ; league of denial : the nfl ’ s concussion crisis & rdquo ; on pbs .
plus , ’ hart of dixie ’ and ’ beauty and the beast ’ return on cw .
jeff smith : why the bestselling ‘ bone ’ creator is a great addition to cbldf board congrats on the virality of your video , marina .
did you make it with huge viewership in mind — or was the intended audience a few friends and soon-to-be former co-workers ?
marina shifrin : thank you !
isn ’ t this so weird ?
i always try to execute wacky ideas and then figure out what i want to do with them after the video was made .
so there was nothing in mind besides , & ldquo ; hey this could be funny ! & rdquo ; i made the video [ on sept .
23 ] and sent it to my parents and few friends .
i kept it on & ldquo ; unlisted & rdquo ; on youtube because i didn ’ t think it needed to be out there for the world , and my boss , to see until i gave proper notice to the head of the company .
as more friends saw it , and i showed it to some co-workers , everyone thought it was cute and funny .
so i gave notice to the head of the company and took it off unlisted [ on sept .
27 ] , knowing someone who was facebook friends with me would eventually forward it to my boss .
although the intention was just for a few people to see it , i knew taking the video off of & ldquo ; unlisted & rdquo ; was a big risk.continue reading this post our rss feeds are free and we currently use rss 2.0 .
click on the icon of the content category ( ies ) you 're interested in subscribing to , and follow the instructions to add to your news reader or your personal my yahoo ! or my aol page .
june and early july can be the best time to see multiple blue sharks and we start off a bit chilly ( low 60 's ) in june , but warm quite nicely by july .
june is also an excellent time to visit montauk glauca ) , one of the prettiest of the world & # 8217 ; s sharks in the open montauk is sometimes referred to as the fisherman & # 8217 ; s capitol of bluefish and other sport fish abounding in its waters .
in addition quickly made our way to the general location and began releasing a on the immediate area to happily snatch an easy meal .
quickly , we suited up and within a few minutes we had forsaken nibble on our protective cage and at the same time , make a few sharks swam within inches of our cameras , and we could observe up close the nictitating membrane as it would reflexively close and the expedition was a huge success .
as we cruised back into montauk harbor , the sun finally poking through the low overcast , we were thrilled to have shared the ocean with one of its most among the creatures you could see on this type of adventure .
the trips are 8-12 hours long , so come prepared for a full day on the diving begins to cover the procedure and to acclimate divers to the cage if you are not certified .
the cage floats on the surface with a maximum along for the ride to enjoy all the sights and sounds above the surface .
although being in the water and meeting a shark face to face is the idene - the idene was a 120 ' steel hulled fishing trawler sunk as an artificial reef by the state of r.i. in 1991 .
the wreck sits but should only be done by qualified divers .
the top of idene can be reached at in 1939 .
today the wreck is unrecognizable as a ship , but still offers an island lies one of the most interesting dives in new england .
the submarine was depth charged on may 6th , 1945 .
the wreck is a must see for the enterprising deep diver .
though the sub is upright and intact , penetration is possible but should be considered dangerous do to the possibility of decaying wreckage .
the wreck is easy to navigate and a all divers are required to sign a waiver and release ofliability , you will need a lot of weight if using a drysuit. are secured to the inside of the cage .
regulators are attached to anodized aluminum pipe and is fully welded at all seams. into the cages top hatch .
once inside , the hatch is closed and sea turtle is a 36 ' bhm downeast style boat .
she is powered by a expeditions and can be made by contacting us through our participates do not have to be certified to cage dive. mailing list and we will email you if anything changes in our divers to the cage if you are not certified .
the cage floats on the surface with you , as a diver should be able to enter and exit the cages on your own .
example : can you easily climb in and out of a swimming pool without the use of stairs or a ladder ?
you should be in reasonably physically fit frequent access to medical facilities you may not be eligible to if a diver chooses not to go out and the tour was not canceled that constitutes a no show and the cost of the trip is safety of the passengers will be decided by the captain at the dock .
every attempt will be made by the expedition company to reschedule divers in the event the captain cancels the trip due to bad weather and / or unsafe sea dive boat cannot be held responsible for bad weather , if a diver chooses not to go out and the tour was not canceled that by the crew for the duration of the trip .
zero tolerance policy is enforced .
no illegal substances will be permitted on the boat .
a waiver and release of diver on each trip .
the crew will log you in and out of the water and will assist you in any way possible , but you are solely responsible for your recommendations for lodging in the montauk area and lots more !
‘ the giver ’ will be a movie starring taylor swift , and everything is the worst this is what happens when you post on craigslist for a shutdown hookup kexp returns to reykjavik for the iceland airwaves music festival tajikistan eu and who support of the improvement of pediatric care services ifrc allocates dref funding to respond to small-scale emergencies in kazakhstan and georgia .
khloé kardashian and lamar odom reunite to show kris jenner support after ... e !
onlinekhloe kardashian to marry drake ?
kris jenner reportedly thinks rapper is ... international business times - by amethyst tatesee all 409 sourcesrelated khloé kardashian what reading should one make of reports about the undermining of efforts to ensure that malaria patients across tanzania pay only as much for one of the drugs of choice as they ought to – and not a cent more ?
the nation is looking on in awe and disbelief as the face-off between the tanzania bus owners association ( taboa ) and the tanzania association for truck owners ( tatoa ) on the one hand and the works ministry on the other takes its toll .
the government is getting increasingly draconian with the media – for reasons we cannot yet tell .
this country is not under a state of emergency .
so why close newspapers , if we may ask ?
wiki iliyopita ilikuwa ni mbaya kwa viwango vyovyote katika tasnia ya habari nchini .
ni wiki ambayo serikali iliendelea kuitumia sheria ya magazeti namba 3 ya mwaka 1976 ambayo inatoa madaraka yasiyohojiwa kwa serikali kufungia vyombo vya habari , kwa kile ambacho kimekuwa kinadaiwa kuwa ni kuendesha uchochezi .
those who stole taxpayers ' trillions should be arrested and prosecuted three years ago on november 19 , 2010 , dar es salaam water supply and sewerage authority ( dawasa ) and dar es salaam water and sewerage corporation ( dawasco ) submitted an application for review and approval of water supply and sewerage tariffs .
a few years ago , president jakaya kikwete called on tanzanians to embark on fish farming in a bid to improve availability of the resource in the country and also to improve their incomes .
how well informed and prepared are tanzanians in donating blood ?
the fifth round of the league was concluded yesterday but the major highlight so far has been violence that has to a great extent tarnished the unfolding season .
the aim is to protect the health of consumers , who have become the target of all sorts of desperate sellers , out to make a quick buck at whatever cost .
youth power is a word we have heard uttered often , but sadly it is mainly in the context of the politics of competition .
our good government is said to have cautioned our parliamentary representatives sitting in dodoma now against putting pressure on it to name drug kingpins because some of them are on the list .
to the government it is their intricate duty while to the companies it is a choice of commitment to social responsibility .
on monday , mali , ’ a country wracked by a rebellion , a coup and an islamic insurgency ’ held a democratic election in an effort to stabilise the country .
but in and of itself , an election does not secure a nation ’ s stability .
president jakaya kikwete on friday silenced war mongers who took advantage of the recent ’ minor ’ diplomatic tension between rwanda and tanzania to campaign for a war to further personal interests .
tanzania is on the verge of enforcing a law guarantee the citizenry the right to legal representation at no obligation to the beneficiaries .
chinese ambassador to tanzania dr lu youqing has a point we cannot ignore : the need to involve big companies operating in the country ’ s war against poverty .
the dar es salaam water and sewerage authority ( dawasa ) has failed to supply water to the residents of dar es salaam , the country ’ s commercial capital and a home to about 5 million people .
as many will recall , just a couple of years or so ago , cleric-turned-herbalist ’ babu samunge ’ of loliondo fame came up with a drink he said was a surefire cure for the disease .
the dar es salaam water and sewerage corporation ( dawasco ) is up in arms over a news story published in this paper only days ago suggesting that there is a hopelessly erratic supply of tap water in parts of one of the city ’ s suburbs , a densely populated one at that , and that the problem has prevailed for quite some time now .
tanzania has a long way to go before it can really make noticeable headway in soccer at the international – indeed , even regional – stage .
suggesting or believing to the contrary would be foolhardy .
while have resumed our regular routine as a nation , it is not ’ business as usual ’ as such considering the goings-on at the annual dares salaam international trade fair ( ditf ) .
president jakaya kikwete opened the african first ladies summit in dar es salaam on tuesday commenting on how women in africa do most of the work but often get much less for their sweat and toil than what lands in the hands of men .
get your daily dosage of cartoons from kabwela , the flexibles and dogo join td ameritrade and trade free for 60 days and get up to $ 600 note : offers may be valid in the us only .
the information and links on this page are provided for your convenience only .
barron 's is not a registered broker-dealer and does not endorse or recommend the services of any brokerage company .
the information and services that can be accessed through these links are provided by the individual brokerage companies , not barron 's .
the brokerage company you select is solely responsible for its services to you , the user .
barron 's shall not be liable for any damages or costs of any type arising out of or in any way connected with your use of a brokerage company 's services .
odisha , andhra pradesh brace for ' very severe ' cyclone , phailin to hit coast ... economic timescyclone phailin set to hit odisha at a wind speed of 205 kmph tomorrowtimes of indialive updating : cyclone phailin live : red alert sounded as ' super storm ' nears odisha , andhrazee newssee all 446 sourcesrelated andhra pradesh if yesterday was a market for the amped up sounds of contemporary top-40 pop , today is a day for bedhead .
what the heck happened to gold ?
metal slumps to three-month low tim participações surges on deal rumors , but imminent deal unlikely thursday delivered a stunner of a gain in the stock market , and the high-flying niche etfs that have slumped of late are suddenly back on top .
the buckle and l brands buckle under the weight of disappointing sales this morning : pc glass half full or half empty ?
bbry in parts ?
what ails ctxs ?
the market is fickle , stocks are up , and bets in favor of market volatility are down .
those are the explanations why the cboe volatility index is plunging 12 % at the slightest hint of compromise in washington .
leonard cohen once sang of stumbling out of bed and getting ready for the struggle .
well , ariad pharmaceuticals ( aria ) can sympathize , as it has fallen out of bed today , and has a struggle on its hands .
october 10by john kimelmanpublications weigh in on the megabank on the eve of its earnings report .
forget tech : the hot ipo is ... the postal service ?
sign up for the safe checking in the electronic age e-mail list to receive our newsletter .
in addition , we may use any information submitted by or collected from you via the site for any purpose related to the site , including to contact you for customer service purposes , to inform you of important changes or additions to our site or the services offered over our site , and to send you administrative notices and any other communications that we believe may be of interest to you .
your choices . when we request information from you on the site , you may always choose not to provide us with that information . but if you decline to supply or provide us with certain information while using the site , you may not be able to use or participate in some or all of the features offered through the site .
if you are interested in being a jc for camp survive you must have completed 10th grade .
it also helps if you attended camp survive in the past , but it is not a requirement .
to help defray the cost of your stay we askjcs to pay $ 65.clickhere for an application letter andform to become a jc ! clickhere for your jc permission form man who brought al qaeda to afghanistan , to now run for country 's presidentthe express tribuneafghan presidential candidates decidedaljazeera.comsee all 116 sourcesrelated afghanistan saint vincent and the grenadines crude oil consumption by year the washington post ’ s & ldquo ; truth teller & rdquo ; launches in beta on posttv & ldquo ; first , the president ’ s office has not yet received the bill though it is possible that the parliament already sent it .
but if the bill has not reached the president ’ s office it is obvious that it is not signed , & rdquo ; noted the statement in part .
president jakaya kikwete on friday extended an invitation to opposition leaders to sit and negotiate the controversial bill to end the current stalemate that threatens to derail the new constitution-making process .
in his end of the month address to the nation , the president told political parties to drop their threats of taking to the streets in protest when the matter can be resolved in parliament .
there are wide swath of islamists who consider the elimination of infidels allah 's work .
they do not represent views of all muslims but they account for more than a handful .
both countries are deluded if they think that will put an end to the ' problem ' .
you may disagree with his conclusion but everything he stated is true .
cetac builds upon momentum of new hires as part of teledyne acquisition enterprise holdings ’ vehicle rental activities are on the upswing in the omaha and lincoln markets due to an increased number of events at the centurylink center , td ameritrade park , husker football and other activities in lincoln .
nouvelle eve refocuses inventory to attract wide range of clientele to shop & ldquo ; willed by god in the very act of creation , marriage and the family are interiorly ordained to fulfillment in christ and have need of his graces in order to be healed from the wounds of sin and restored to their ’ beginning , ’ that is , to full understanding and the full realization of god ’ s plan . & rdquo ; ( john paul ii , familiaris consortio # 3 ) an initiative of the united states conference of catholic bishops in the second phase of the operation karagwe district , one of the areas with highest number of illegal immigrants , has announced that it will work vigilantly to track and apprehend the aliens .
safe environment > charter for theprotection of children and young peopleclick here to view the charter the statement was made in dar es salaam earlier this week by the ministry ’ s spokesman , ridhiwani wema while briefing journalists on the establishment of the so called boards .
between the lakes and pines , the castle is the perfect place to have fun , think about who god is and what effect he has in your life .
jesus calls everyone to follow him .
come and see if he is calling you to follow him as a priest .
poll : one in four approve of republicans ’ handling of shutdown standoff highserenity : the " dreaded " volatitlity is no such thing .
governing by creating talljohn777 : the government cannot default ...
they are constitutionally required to pay and all the financials report this week and next .. it is always this way .
hahah it is boney and the baggers in charge !
it is up to the house to stop playing games with the economy .. with our country ...
this has to do with debt ceiling and not government shutdown , notice that ?
so we can pay our bills .
hopefully i did not read this wrong . the debt ceiling is not to pay old bills .
it is to borrow more money to make new bills .
you read it wrong , the debt ceiling is to pay the bills already incurred .
did nobel committee snub malala yousafzai because it was afraid to confront ... fox newsmalala yousafzai favored to win nobel peace prizeusa today - by melanie eversleyin depth : malala yousafzai 's supporters dismayed by failure to land nobel peace prizethe guardiansee all 801 sourcesrelated taliban nicole scherzinger struggles to answer question about courageous malala ... express.co.uknicole scherzinger unsure of who honoree malala yousafzai at pride of britain ... cambiosee all 108 sourcesrelated nicole scherzinger la circoncision est devenue à la mode au rwanda surtout chez les jeunes qui veulent limiter les risques d 'infection au vih et faire comme leurs voisins .
la demande dépasse largement les capacités d 'intervention gratuite du ministère de la santé .
mais tous les hommes ne sont pas conscients que se faire opérer ne " nous sommes toujours aux aguets , à l ’ écoute de la radio et des communiqués du secteur administratif de rilima sur la prochaine séance promotionnelle de circoncision .
les élèves sont déterminés plus que jamais à se faire circoncire " , atteste kamanzi , jeune élève du groupe scolaire de rilima à bugesera à l ’ est du rwanda .
" l ’ opération est gratuite .
le ministère de la santé ( minisante ) envoie du personnel qualifié dans les provinces .
chaque entité administrative à son tour .
mais les demandes restent trop fortes et par conséquent , non servies .
certains jeunes et adultes vont dans les provinces voisines " , atteste françois mutijima , un élève qui avait sollicité , au mois de janvier dernier , le centre de santé de kabutare , province du sud pour se faire opérer .
cette forte demande est due à la grande campagne de prévention contre les maladies sexuellement transmissibles dont le vih / sida lancée par le gouvernement rwandais en 2010 .
selon le secrétaire exécutif du secteur rilima , gaspard gasirabo , les agents du minisante viennent , le plus souvent , jeudi , jour du marché de rilima mobiliser les jeunes et adultes mâles à faire cette opération sans danger qui aurait de nombreux avantages .
il s 'agit simplement de couper le prépuce , un repli de la peau qui recouvre une partie de l 'organe génital des en effet , selon des études effectuées par oms et onusida , la circoncision diviserait par deux les risques d ’ infection par le virus du sida ( vih ) .
cette pratique pourrait ainsi éviter deux millions de contaminations et 300 000 morts dans les dix prochaines années en afrique sub-saharienne .
" cette forte campagne a rendu plus sensibles les jeunes élèves .
ils sollicitent sans cesse la prochaine date d ’ arrivée du personnel médical du minisante pour bénéficier du service gratuit de circoncision " , note gaspard .
jusqu 'à présent cette opération était payante et beaucoup se faisaient opérer par des tradi-praticiens sans mais cet engouement est aussi très risqué car il est souvent lié à une fausse interprétation du message .
beaucoup de jeunes garçons ou d 'hommes pensent qu 'une fois opérés ils n 'ont plus besoin d 'utiliser des préservatifs pour se protéger du vih .
ce qui est totalement erroné .
la prévention reste tout autant nécessaire pour éviter d 'attraper les mst que ce soit du côté des hommes comme de celui des femmes qui peuvent se faire infecter par des hommes circoncis .
mais chez les jeunes , la circoncision est devenue " à la mode " .
ils ont découvert en regardant films ou photos sur internet que dans les pays voisins comme la rdc et l 'ouganda , c 'était souvent une coutume et pas l 'apanage des seuls musulmans .
pour eux , outre le fait de les protéger , c 'est aussi une marque gare donc à celui qui ne suit pas la mode .
" j ’ ai décidé de payer 50 000 frw ( 80 & dollar ; ) pour être circoncis .
j ’ en avais marre des injures de mes collègues élèves .
on me considérait tantôt comme un vaurien , tantôt comme un rustique ( kafiri ) et tantôt comme une personne munie d ’ une bouteille ( allusion au sexe masculin incirconcis ) " , témoignent aussi bien françois mutijima que ses trois camarades au marché de rilima .
" la culture rwandaise tolère encore les incirconcis , mais dans les quartiers , ils sont des fois mal vus .
plus grave encore dans les les filles et les femmes ont aussi acquis une certaine considération à l ’ égard des circoncis jusqu 'à présent peu nombreux dans le pays .
pour mme kanyange , mère de trois enfants , bien que le coût de la circoncision soit élevé , elle revêt des avantages incontournables .
" la circoncision assure la propreté , elle est une opération chirurgicale esthétique pour les hommes " , estime-t-elle .
c 'est pourquoi , ils souhaiteraient que cette opération soit couverte par la mutuelle de santé .
mais pour andrew makaka , ancien directeur de la mutuelle de santé au niveau national , " la circoncision est perçue dans le contexte de couverts par la mutuelle de santé .
en plus de cela , les statistiques du dernier recensement général de la population , ont montré que plus d ’ un million cinq my fuzzy friend : dempsey nibbles on my leg if i ignore him when he ’ s hungry fri oct 11 , 2013 01 : 24 am edt the sentinel ’ s family calendar thu oct 10 , 2013 11 : 24 pm edt rsr realtors welcomes new agent thu oct 10 , 2013 3 : 24 pm edt masked man robs pizza hut in mechanicsburg thu oct 10 , 2013 11 : 24 pm edt autoerotic asphyxiation possible in castro death thu oct 10 , 2013 11 : 24 pm edt truckers aim to shutdown the capital beltway to protest government fri oct 11 , 2013 01 : 24 am edt father charged for throwing rocks at a car that had his child inside thu oct 10 , 2013 9 : 24 pm edt parvovirus is making unwelcome return here thu oct 10 , 2013 5 : 24 pm edt petplan shows off new ’ fun ’ offices fri oct 11 , 2013 05 : 24 am edt inquirer owners sue inquirer , publisher thu oct 10 , 2013 5 : 24 pm edt local impact of teva job cuts still to be decided thu oct 10 , 2013 5 : 24 pm edt fattah under investigation for seven years ?
fri oct 11 , 2013 05 : 24 am edt sentence tossed out for 11-year-old ’ s rapist fri oct 11 , 2013 05 : 24 am edt newspaper squabble heads to court fri oct 11 , 2013 05 : 24 am edt video shows aggressive stop and frisk in philly that aclu calls ’ abusive ’ fri oct 11 , 2013 05 : 24 am edt neighbors : missing bensalem boater a ’ gentleman ’ fri oct 11 , 2013 03 : 24 am edt fallen gun halts hearing on police chief fri oct 11 , 2013 03 : 24 am edt goode takes new aim at tax breaks for new construction fri oct 11 , 2013 03 : 24 am edt new trial for convicted rapist fri oct 11 , 2013 03 : 24 am edt car overturns , backs up traffic on i-95 fri oct 11 , 2013 05 : 24 am edt gov ’ t shutdown detours family from visiting gravesite thu oct 10 , 2013 11 : 24 pm edt ppg donates $ 72k for local education efforts thu oct 10 , 2013 7 : 24 pm edt pittsburghers weigh in on a yellen-led fed thu oct 10 , 2013 3 : 24 pm edt chase and crash fri oct 11 , 2013 05 : 24 am edt can sprite cure a hangover ?
thu oct 10 , 2013 9 : 24 pm edt suspect in abuse case on the run for 6 months thu oct 10 , 2013 9 : 24 pm edt lawsuit roils storied philadelphia newspaper fri oct 11 , 2013 01 : 24 am edt two shooting suspects nabbed fri oct 11 , 2013 03 : 24 am edt mike ditka : not running against obama was ’ biggest mistake ’ thu oct 10 , 2013 11 : 24 pm edt an accident at an accident trade show thu oct 10 , 2013 7 : 24 pm edt police : kunkletown probationer is no drug whiz fri oct 11 , 2013 01 : 24 am edt trail camera stolen in eldred fri oct 11 , 2013 01 : 24 am edt pocono township supervisor : take away my job fri oct 11 , 2013 01 : 24 am edt arrest made in schuylkill county slashing mon jul 23 , 2012 11 : 24 am edt one putt changes everything for overton fri oct 11 , 2013 05 : 24 am edt lee tops at lpga malaysia despite thompson ’ s 63 fri oct 11 , 2013 05 : 24 am edt wh smith looks overseas to make up for low growth in uk the president was speaking recently in rufiji district at the opening of the camp the brainchild of rufiji basin development authority ( rubada ) .
it compliments well the uk ’ s support to the government of tanzania ’ s big results now programme .
speaking ahead of the visit , sir simon said : & ldquo ; the uk sees tanzania as one of its key partners in africa and i am delighted to be visiting for the first time . & rdquo ; he added : & ldquo ; however the uk is the leading investor in tanzania , we still want to do more . & rdquo ; he said british want to do this by boosting trade and investment between the two countries and by continuing supporting tanzania ’ s development .
the joy of being a priest : following the cure of ars by christoph cardinal schoenbornmany are called : rediscovering the glory of the priesthood by dr. scott hahnthe grace of ars : reflections on the life and spirituality of st. john vianneyby fr .
frederick millersharing christ 's priesthood : a bible study for catholics by mike aquilinathe cure d 'ars : st. jean-marie-baptiste vianney by abbe francois trochusermons of the cure of ars presbyterorum ordinis ( decree on the ministry and life of priests ) perfectae caritatis ( decree on the adaptation and renewal of religious life there should be no euphemisms or mincing of words here : whoever is behind the practice is engaged in crime and it is not merely a case of running against professional ethics .
while all these efforts may be focusing on what is believed to be the root cause of the problem , they could come to little effect if nothing is done to rein in traders and other people out to make a fortune out of the misery of gullible members of the public .
man who accused nopd officer of stealing faces charges of lying in pib complaint thu oct 10 , 2013 9 : 14 pm edt gop meeting with obama called ’ very useful ’ thu oct 10 , 2013 7 : 14 pm edt new orleans woman gets red light ticket , but doesn ’ t own a car fri oct 11 , 2013 01 : 14 am edt jp councilman wants to eliminate ethics officer thu oct 10 , 2013 7 : 14 pm edt parish-by-parish responses to dhh amoeba battle thu oct 10 , 2013 7 : 14 pm edt dan finley will be interim leader of waukesha county museum thu oct 10 , 2013 4 : 20 pm edt ferris wheel part of massive acuity expansion at sheboygan hq thu oct 10 , 2013 4 : 20 pm edt teen challenge wisconsin to be honored at fundraiser thu oct 10 , 2013 10 : 20 pm edt family , friends pay respects to man who died on wedding day thu oct 10 , 2013 10 : 20 am edt funeral set for eau claire leader-telegram ’ s ex-publisher thu oct 10 , 2013 10 : 20 am edt another child enticement case reported in oshkosh wed oct 9 , 2013 10 : 20 pm edt 2 men try to rob brookfield jewelry store wed oct 2 , 2013 10 : 20 pm edt kayla ’ s krew building playground for kids of all abilities with butterflies fri oct 11 , 2013 06 : 20 am edt 84-year-old man killed in milwaukee fri oct 11 , 2013 12 : 20 am edt sex assault defendant threatens to call fbi on judge thu oct 10 , 2013 8 : 20 pm edt greendale crossing guard hit by car hopes to be back on job some day fri oct 11 , 2013 12 : 20 am edt jcc pool to reopen friday after crypto outbreak fri oct 11 , 2013 12 : 20 am edt i hope he had a dammm good reason .... or he is senile . god bless all .
letter : is ralph gonsalves the prime minister of only the ulp and its followers ?
st vincent and the grenadines hosts regional conference on reparations letter : gonsalves ganja stance is a breath of fresh air september 14 , 2013 for months , attempts were made to get persons within the higher rungs of the vincentian government structure to make comments on the issue of the decriminalization of marijuana .
those government functionaries to this date are yet to return messages on the request for an interview ...
obama can ’ t cave , even a little , in the face of gop extremism paul ryan hints at a way to end the political paralysis burundi : rencontre entre pouvoir et opposition sur la question du code électoral burundi : rencontre entre pouvoir et opposition sur la question du code au burundi , alors que l ’ opposition avait boycotté les élections générales de 2010 , les nations unies ont organisé mi-mars les premières discussions pouvoir-opposition en vue d ’ organiser en 2015 des élections libres et apaisées .
ce qui avait débouché sur la signature d ’ une feuille de route .
les organisateurs veulent transformer l ’ essai en organisant une nouvelle rencontre entre les acteurs politiques burundais sur la question du code électoral dès aujourd ’ hui , mais ça nous n ’ attendons rien de la rencontre de kayanza .
l 'opposition burundaise toute la classe politique burundaise va se retrouver une nouvelle fois autour d ’ une table de discussions .
et pour & rdquo ; favoriser & bdquo ; la concentration des participants , cet atelier se tiendra dans le cadre champêtre de kayanza , dans le pendant trois jours , pouvoir et opposition vont tenter de nettoyer le code électoral burundais , un texte très lacunaire selon l ’ avis de toutes les parties .
d ’ ores et déjà , les différents protagonistes se sont mis d ’ accord sur bon nombre également s ’ accorder sur la question du règlement du contentieux électoral ou mais les nuages s ’ accumulent déjà au-dessus de cette rencontre .
l ’ opposition accuse le pouvoir burundais d ’ avoir uniquement distribué le document de travail aux partis politiques qui lui sont proches , mais aussi de continuer à empêcher les réunions de l ’ opposition en violation de la feuille de route signée en mars & rdquo ; nous n ’ attendons rien de la rencontre de kayanza , mais nous y serons quand burundi réalités ( c ) 2006 all rights reserved huffington post deutschland – nachrichten und meinungen verwenden sie ein mobiles gerät ?
huffpost mobile finden sie unter m.huffingtonpost.com ..
die union braucht eine alternative zur spd , wenn sie in den ländern wieder an die macht will ...
die grünen wollen bereits beim nächsten treffen eine entscheidung von merkel die huffington post deutschland startet in einer phase der veränderung und des aufbruchs in der deutschen medienlandschaft .
bloggen ist hier noch relativ wenig verbreitet .
das bedeutet riesige chancen auf wachstum für die huffpost .
einen medialen hybriden : kombination aus journalistischem kanal , der vergangenes jahr mit dem pulitzer preis für seine investigative berichterstattung ausgezeichnet wurde und einer starken blogger-plattform .
worüber bei den sondierungen sicherlich nicht gesprochen wird , das sind themen , die wirklich für veränderungen sorgen würden , weil sie dazu beitragen , dass die politik endlich den versuch unternähme , das 21 .
jahrhundert nicht mehr mit mitteln des 19. oder 20 .
jahrhunderts bewältigen zu wollen .
und passend zum anlass gibt es natürlich etwas besonderes .
auch wenn ich bei schön und fein sonst weniger als törtchenfrollein unterwegs bin , darf es zum deutschland-start der huff und zur feier des tages dann doch etwas üppiger ausfallen .
kompliziert ist es trotzdem nicht , jedoch 5stöckig , fruchtig , ein wenig herbstlich und mit leckerem , fluffigem frosting umhüllt .
zwar hat der wähler die politische kreditlinie der liberalen fristlos gekündigt und die partei so in die parlamentarische insolvenz gestürzt .
aber in puncto konkursmasse hat die fdp durchaus etwas zu bieten : immerhin gibt es noch 4,7 prozent wählerstimmen zu verteilen .
kein wunder , dass die anderen parteien jetzt darüber streiten , wie man die heimatlosen anhänger der fdp zu sich herüberziehen kann .
liesmich.me ist das zuhause für gute reportagen .
die besten reportagen - jeden freitag neu .
aber wer wie ich nach meiner aktiven karriere viel einstecken musste , hat auch das recht mal auszuteilen .
und seien wir doch mal ehrlich : langweilige und halbgare biografien gibt es ja nun wirklich genug .
ich habe die offensive gewählt , so wie früher auf dem tennisplatz .
und zur wahrheit gehören auch enthüllungen , skandale , spannende neuigkeiten und überraschungen .
bis zu 50 milliarden geräte werden bis 2020 mit dem internet verbunden sein .
die angekündigte brille von google oder die uhr von samsung gehören dabei eher zu den ( noch ) exotischen vorboten dieser entwicklung .
im kern lässt diese sich auf eine formel bringen : alles , was daten liefern kann , weil es irgendwie zählt , misst , kommuniziert , darstellt und selbstständig agiert , wird vernetzt .
waren brillen mit kleinen computermonitoren bisher nur insidern bekannt , so betraten nun auf einmal die smart glasses die grosse buehne der weltoeffentlichkeit .
google schrumpfte im grunde genommen das innere seines galaxy nexus smartphone auf brillengestell-groesse .
e-mail , webseiten , internet-telefonie , nichts scheint wirklich sicher .
die deutsche bevölkerung scheint dabei wenig betroffenheit zu zeigen .
wie sieht das in den usa , dem land der meinungsfreiheit mit einer über 200 jahre alten demokratischen tradition aus ?
mitglied des deutschen bundestages , stv .
generalsekretärin der csu , meistens freundlich , fränkin aus leidenschaft die netzgemeinde zeichnet sich durch eine besondere liebe zum kritischen blick und zu vehementer argumentation aus .
und so richtig und begrüßenswert eine solch offene und unmittelbare debattenkultur ist , müssen wir uns doch fragen , ob dabei nicht ein wesentlicher bestandteil abhandengekommen ist , den man braucht , wenn man als diskussionspartner ernstgenommen werden möchte : die selbst-kritik .
wer viel unterwegs ist , muss wichtige daten immer mit dabei haben .
ich kenne es allzu gut .
dabei vergesse ich oft , wo meine daten liegen - auf dem arbeitsrechner , auf dem laptop zu hause oder auf dem tablet .
und dann muss ich ja noch wissen , wo genau auf dem gerät die textdateien , präsentationen , pdfs oder videos gespeichert sind .
was tun ?
natürlich halten uns viele externe faktoren beruflich auf , aber vor allem müssen wir mütter frieden mit uns selbst schließen und uns ehrlich fragen , was wir wollen .
und für diese entscheidung müssen wir uns dann auch voll und ohne selbstzweifel einsetzen ( lean in ) .
wir müssen unseren frieden damit machen , dass wir nicht jede rolle perfekt ausfüllen können .
das heißt auch : wer sich als erster darauf einstellt , die klugen antworten und konzepte findet , der kann morgen gewinner der entwicklung sein .
wenn wir anders arbeiten , leben und die chancen der globalisierung beim schopf packen , kann auch eine alternde und schrumpfende gesellschaft enorme kräfte freisetzen .
schon wieder flüchtlingsboot gekentertgetty12 tote , 250 migranten vor lampedusa vermisst ... alle informationen gibt es hier live machen sich us-terroristen zum angriff bereit ? gettypilotengewerkschaft : verdächtige personen scheinen zu üben jetzt wird 's schmutzig : vermögensprüfer wirft limburger protz-bischof lüge vordpabischof sagt brief an diözese ab !
blitzer-bilanzdpa3 millionen blitze ...
83 000 autofahrer zu schnell ...
322 droht allein in nrw fahrverbot sozialabgaben steigen deutlichgetty imagesverdienen sie mehr als 3937,50 euro ?
dann wird es für sie teuer sei glücklich , malala ! gettydas 16-jährige mädchen aus pakistan kann auch ohne friedensnobelpreis lachen " bist du faul oder nur inkompetent ? " gettyso spricht amazon gründer bezos mit seinen mitarbeitern arbeitslose eu-bürger haben recht auf hartz ivgettygrundsatzurteil : gericht spricht rumänischer familie leistungen zu ..
hier lesen sie die 20 bizarrsten hartz-iv-urteile union und grüne - geht da wirklich etwas ? dpasondierungsgespräche : " das hat objektiv chancen " machtpoker um schwarz-rotdpagabriel , merkel und seehofer suchen kompromisse ...
heute treffen im kanzleramt ...
steuern rauf ?
gettydeutsche glauben , dass merkel eher vor der spd einknickt als vor den grünen 15 prozent der mathelehrer haben mathe gar nicht studiert dpaosten rechnet besser als der westen ...
spitzenreiter ist sachsen ...
reiche kinder besser als arme ...
günther beckstein : große koalition „ gefährlich für demokratie " gettybayerns ex-innenminister spricht sich für schwarz-grün aus exklusiv „ hier verlierst du den verstand " human rightsein häftling berichtet aus dem todestrakt ..
ekd-ratsvorsitzender schneider : " todesstrafe ächten " ..
erzbischof zollitsch : todesstrafe kann mord sein " ..
kriminologe : die todesstrafe aus opfersicht lesen sie artikel , die ihnen möglicherweise gefallen , und schauen sie sich an , was ihre freunde teilen .
kann man einen hai erstechen ? youtube.comdie wahrheit über die größten " gta " -gerüchte so werden sie ihren partner los - in 10 klicksthinkstockwie man online eine beziehung am besten beendet bis zu 2,5 millionen deutsche online-süchtig ? thinkstockder computer , mein einziger freund das sind die geheimnisse glücklicher menschengettygucken sie sich die besten tipps ab !
tod im hotelzimmergetty schnellste frau der welt : maria de villota ist tot moritz e. starb an epilepsiescreenshot whu.edudeutscher bank-praktikant stirbt in london ...
gerichtsmediziner : ursache war epilepsie , nicht überarbeitung ... trotzdem zusammenhang ?
frauen lieben jogi löw ! gettymehrheit der deutschen traut seinem team den wm-titel zu wie gut kennen sie ihr iphone ? gettywir zeigen die versteckten tricks von ios 7 exklusiv „ ich habe sicher keine vier scheidungen geplant " gettylothar matthäus spricht über das leben nach dem fußball city investigates embezzlement thu oct 10 , 2013 1 : 23 pm edt england ’ s ’ bionic man ’ visits u.s. fri oct 11 , 2013 03 : 23 am edt malala visits ny on eve of nobel award thu oct 10 , 2013 11 : 23 pm edt annual ’ running of the roaches ’ in wisconsin thu oct 10 , 2013 11 : 23 pm edt hcs carnival slated today in school gym thu oct 10 , 2013 11 : 23 pm edt australian actor brings art collection to lawton thu oct 10 , 2013 9 : 23 pm edt lawton woman fights off trio of intruders thu oct 10 , 2013 7 : 23 pm edt fall cleanup set for the next two weekends tue oct 8 , 2013 5 : 23 pm edt two men found guilty in fed. court for trafficking drugs in mcalester tue oct 8 , 2013 5 : 23 pm edt kevin durant sends out congratulatory tweet to monica wright thu oct 10 , 2013 11 : 23 pm edt bicyclist injured by hit and run vehicle thu oct 10 , 2013 11 : 23 pm edt shutdown brings winery business to standstill fri oct 11 , 2013 01 : 23 am edt teen gearing up for argentina trials fri oct 11 , 2013 01 : 23 am edt ’ gang member ’ poi in tulsa beating thu oct 10 , 2013 11 : 23 pm edt day care tapes shoes on toddler ’ s feet wed oct 9 , 2013 3 : 23 pm edt local reaction to dusten brown ’ s decision thu oct 10 , 2013 7 : 23 pm edt tajikistan who and development partners conducted assessment of the quality of antenatal and postnatal care in tajikistan “ ас атасы – нан ” – bread is the head of all foods , kazakh proverb in april , the most likely emergencies will be due to floods and flash floods , particularly in yakhsu and kizilsu rivers .
neighborhood laments loss of south anthony kmart fri oct 11 , 2013 03 : 12 am edt huntertown acts to supply drinking water on its own fri oct 11 , 2013 03 : 12 am edt artist now assessing damage to ’ helmholtz ’ sculpture fri oct 11 , 2013 03 : 12 am edt ywca announces recipents for the 2013 hope award for racial justice fri oct 11 , 2013 03 : 12 am edt new name and installation at ipfw geogarden fri oct 11 , 2013 03 : 12 am edt last ’ county night out ’ in aboite oct .
17 fri oct 11 , 2013 03 : 12 am edt fort wayne named a ’ green community ’ fri oct 11 , 2013 03 : 12 am edt hope ?
boehner offers a short-term debt extension thu oct 10 , 2013 7 : 12 pm edt ritz anticipates effort to reduce her authority thu oct 10 , 2013 01 : 12 am edt ’ relief rally ’ shows investors keeping the faith thu oct 10 , 2013 11 : 12 pm edt state believes hoosiers aren ’ t eligible for tax credits under obamacare thu oct 10 , 2013 9 : 12 pm edt eli lilly volunteers , friends transform areas of indianapolis in a day of service thu oct 10 , 2013 7 : 12 pm edt stocks surge as washington moves to end impasse thu oct 10 , 2013 5 : 12 pm edt shelbyville law office ransacked thu oct 10 , 2013 11 : 12 pm edt hotel sweep uncovers bed bugs and more thu oct 10 , 2013 7 : 12 pm edt pence helps at new intermodal site thu oct 10 , 2013 7 : 12 pm edt inspectors test neighborhood for toxins thu oct 10 , 2013 7 : 12 pm edt pence appoints lobbyist as new medicaid chief fri oct 11 , 2013 05 : 12 am edt be ready for the bike patrol sat oct 5 , 2013 07 : 12 am edt terms of service mon dec 26 , 2011 10 : 47 am est ex-indiana lawmaker faces charge of soliciting sex fri dec 9 , 2011 01 : 12 am est hooking vets up with help thu oct 10 , 2013 7 : 12 pm edt motorists perturbed by bumpy railroad crossing thu oct 10 , 2013 7 : 12 pm edt this has less to do with health care and more to do with racism and antagonism to the truly poor . ... reprehensible ...... a new low for medicine just when you think you had seen or heard of " everything " they discharged her the same day to walk back to her village ?
that 's cold .
bet you don 't have a job and still live with mom and dad .
remember , a conservative is a liberal who got mugged , 6567 .
a lot of tragic news ends up in the " weird news " section , and it is inappropriate .
wapc condemns government for closure of two newspapers na the guardian reporter arusha enjoys new look tarmac roads na the guardian reporter tma gives details of weather forecast for the country na devota mwachang 'a in the lake victoria basin ( kagera , geita and mara regions ) , northern kigoma and northern parts of arusha and kilimanjaro regions , rains are likely to be normal .
" in 90-91 , we didn ’ t know what we had except that it had to be entirely new because it was the first dinosaur , ” said hammer , who returned to the beardmore region for a third time with his largest team to date in an effort to recover as much of the meat-eating dinosaur as possible .
among the new discoveries is the partial skeleton of an ornithischian , or bird-hipped dinosaur , found under an overhang near the cryolophosaurus quarry by roger smith in the waning days of the field season .
that ’ s in contrast to the early jurassic , when the world ’ s landmasses were sealed together in the supercontinent called pangaea .
" the world was a biogeographic superhighway , ” makovicky said , explaining that an animal could literally traverse from one end of the world to the other .
the big question : did they ?
cryolophosaurus ’ closest relatives to date lived in what is modern-day united states and china .
in the pangaea configuration , they would have been at the far corners of the supercontinent from antarctica .
" we ’ re trying to do the whole mesozoic as much as we can , ” said hammer , referring to an era nearly 200 million years long , sandwiched between two mass extinctions , and loosely known as the age of dinosaurs .
" it ’ s simply two different environments ; that is the reason why you can find so much in the triassic and so little in the lower jurassic , ” koppelhus said .
the cold and altitude are tough on people and equipment .
makovicky said he lost a half-day on the mountain trying to get the jackhammer to start in the extreme cold .
he had to use the exhaust from a generator to warm it up .
" you ’ re thinking in ways that you ’ re not used to when you do fieldwork anywhere else , ” he said .
it ’ s a mindset familiar to hammer , who has made eight trips to antarctica since the 1970s .
the 61-year-old paleontologist mused it could be his last visit , at least to the beardmore region .
rise in crime on metro crime is up on metro as thefts of electronic devices continue . wed oct 09 16 : 00 : 35 utc 2013 media stakeholders blacklist dr mukangara , mwambene na the guardian reporter media stakeholders who met in dar es salaam yesterday to discuss the ban imposed on various newspapers by the government , have indefinitely blacklisted the minister of information , youth , culture and sports , dr fenella mukangara and tanzania information services director assah mwambene .
the havoc caused by the ongoing strike , called by truck owners four days ago to press for the reinstatement of five per cent allowable weight on overloaded vehicles , is fast manifesting itself . & ldquo ; we have given the government ample time to respond to our requests and our way forward depends on the government ’ s response .
we are not rushing to court as the minister advised us to do , & rdquo ; he added .
redskinsjeff bostic wanted to run over jerry jonesfans who liked dan snyder & # 8217 ; s letterrgiii says he helped design his high school & # 8217 ; s uniformsdexter manley saw roger goodell on a stairmasterchris baker tells his engagement storyview all tag postsnatsbowden on the lerners and ripkenripken responds to jayson werth about nats manager jobbryce harper & # 8217 ; s brother nominated for mustache awardnow the wizards have a season ticket holder scarfted leonsis still thinks the nats are baseball & # 8217 ; s best teamview all tag postscapswhy karl alzner brought his dogs to caps practiceleonsis on d.c. winter classic location : & # 8216 ; i think nats park would be a natural place & # 8217 ; ted leonsis declines to discuss redskins nameadam oates weighs in on rgiiinow the wizards have a season ticket holder scarfview all tag postswizardswizards go to fogo de chao for brazilian culturewhy the wizards were blacked outglen rice jr . & # 8217 ; s putback slam to force overtimeted leonsis on wizards & # 8216 ; prima donnas & # 8217 ; ted leonsis declines to discuss redskins nameview all tag postsmediaredskins in the black holeloverro objects to incestuous washington post praisenine things about skip baylessjoe gibbs on tony kornheiserrick reilly on the redskins nameview all tag posts portis on practice , gibbs , snyderleonsis on the playoffs , the natsredskins-raiders best and worstthe end of natitude ? © 2013 indexmundi - all rights reserved burundi | reliefweb " former burundian refugees still in need of reintegration support " says iom affrontements entre jeunes du parti au pouvoir et de l & # 039 ; opposition d ’ après l ’ oim , les anciens réfugiés burundais ont toujours besoin d ’ aide à la réintégration burundi + 1 other d ’ après l ’ oim , les anciens réfugiés burundais ont toujours besoin d ’ aide à la réintégration burundi - d ’ après le profilage socioéconomique des familles effectué par l ’ oim entre le 17 juin et le 24 août 2013 , neuf mois après leur retour du camp de réfugiés de mtabila à l ’ ouest de la tanzanie , les anciens réfugiés burundais restent confrontés à des problèmes socioéconomiques qui entravent leur réintégration dans les communautés de retour .
burundi au burundi , des ex-combattantes reprennent goût à la vie [ vidéo ] autrefois , elles avaient pris les armes dans le cadre de la guerre civile qui a ensanglanté leur pays .
aujourd ’ hui , ces ex-combattantes ont pu réintégrer la vie professionnelle et se sont attirées le respect de leur communauté .
agence france-presse : © afp : the information provided in this product is for personal use only .
none of it may be reproduced in any form whatsoever without the express permission of agence france-presse .
burundi affrontements entre jeunes du parti au pouvoir et de l & # 039 ; opposition bujumbura , 7 octobre 2013 ( afp ) - des affrontements entre jeunes du parti au pouvoir et d 'un parti d 'opposition ont fait cinq blessés graves et des dizaines de blessés légers dimanche près de bujumbura , ont indiqué des sources concordantes lundi à l 'afp .
world + 18 others bulletin de la securité africaine no.25 - les opérations de paix en afrique : enseignements tirés depuis 2000 plus de 50 opérations de paix ont été déployées dans 18 pays d ’ afrique depuis 2000 .
le « maintien de la paix en partenariat » , qui implique une coopération entre divers acteurs et institutions multilatérales et bilatérales , est devenu de plus en plus commun .
les efforts de génération des forces devraient porter sur le déploiement des capacités requises en vue de la réalisation des objectifs de la mission et pas seulement sur le nombre de soldats de la paix .
democratic republic of the congo + 7 others rapport du secrétaire général sur la mise en œuvre de l ’ accord-cadre pour la paix , la sécurité et la coopération pour la république démocratique du congo et la région ( s / 2013 / 569 ) le maïs blanc est la céréale de base principale consommées en tanzanie , au kenya et en ethiopie .
en ouganda , le maïs blanc est cultivé principalement en tant que culture commerciale pour l 'exportation dans la région .
le riz importé est un aliment de base majeur pour djibouti et la somalie , qui consomment principalement belem ‐ le riz importé rouge .
la tanzanie est également un producteur majeur et source de riz dans la région tandis que le kenya et l 'ouganda sont de petits producteurs .
les deux rouges et le sorgho blanc sont produits et consommés dans la région .
burundi priorité au développement et à la consolidation de la paix 26 septembre 2013 – tout en réaffirmant son engagement en faveur de la réalisation des objectifs du millénaire pour le développement ( omd ) , le ministre des relations extérieures du burundi , laurent kavakure , a souligné les progrès réalisés par son pays en matière de consolidation de la paix .
supreme court may need to decide how private a cellphone is everyone ’ s a critic of the supreme court — especially its members in the loop : don ’ t do everything you see on television the families of deceased military personnel cannot expect to receive the so-called " death gratuity " of $ 100,000 .
former senator ’ mo ’ cowan to return to his old law firm house gop plan : ’ working group ’ that ’ s more super than a supercommittee eight or ten blizzards a year are not uncommon to coastal areas , and they bring any human outdoor activity to a standstill .
for information and materials for rcia please visit the association for catechumenal ministry ( acm ) website ! you can also find out more about rcia by visiting acm 's blog " the blog that 's all about rcia " what is rcia ?
below you can read a series of 6 articles which explain clearly and succinctly what rcia is all about .
these articles can also be found on the above acm website.article 1 - to the threshold and to the fullness : what is the rcia supposed to be ? article 2 - starting fires in the rcia : precatechumenate catechesis and apologeticsarticle 3 - grace elevating nature : liturgical elements of the rcia catechumenate periodarticle 4 - the standard of teaching : catechesis in the rcia catechumenate periodarticle 5 - preparing to receive the life of god : rcia catechesis in the period of purification and enlightenmentarticle 6 - deepening in the graces received : rcia catechesis in the period of post-baptismal catechesis or mystagogy western sahara crude oil consumption by year ( thousand barrels per day ) he added : & ldquo ; the fdt ’ s focus was just to improve commercial viability of tree growing in order to add sustainable value to the sector and the success of this project will depend on the support and engagement of stakeholders in the activities of the trust .
only on fox16arkansas ' most wantedemail alertsfamily healthgood day arkansasgood earth green houseidol chatterjob alertlive weather camerasmobilenewslinksneighborhood crime trackerpolitical newsrants and raveswhat 's going aroundmayflower oil spillstop bullyinggood day arkansasmarketplacecomparative shoppingcouponsdirectory - seek it localfind a homefind a jobfree classifieds - seek it local lifestyle guidesmobile phone applicationcommunitybse remindercontestsrants and ravessite commentssponsorship requesttv tools for parentsviewer photos and videosviral videoeventsbig dam bridge 100light the nightstop bullyingfeatured links90 seconds in the kitchencommunity eventscw arkansasel latinofox networkidol chattergood earth green househogs & sec videolottery resultsnewslinkspump patrol - gas pricessevere weather guideyou decidearkansas timesabout uscontact usemail alertsfox16 news biosfox16 jobs / internshipsinergize digital networkprogram guideclosed caption concernsadvertise with uslive weather camerascontestsmayflower oil spill boeing puts finance exec in charge of new planes thu oct 10 , 2013 6 : 29 pm edt should startup founders try to find work-life balance ?
techflash cup participants weigh in thu oct 10 , 2013 6 : 29 pm edt put on the dawg !
espn ’ s college game day arrives at husky stadium saturday thu oct 10 , 2013 4 : 29 pm edt could uw get a ’ gameday ’ bump ?
fri oct 11 , 2013 02 : 29 am edt uw preps for espn ’ s college gameday spotlight this weekend fri oct 11 , 2013 12 : 29 am edt green houseboat owner in olympia told to shove off thu oct 10 , 2013 10 : 29 pm edt crews dig up neighborhood to clean up arsenic fri oct 11 , 2013 12 : 29 am edt teen girl hit by car on everett sidewalk fri oct 11 , 2013 12 : 29 am edt mike ditka : not running against obama was ’ biggest mistake ’ thu oct 10 , 2013 10 : 29 pm edt children , 5 and 12 , hit by car tuesday evening tue oct 8 , 2013 10 : 29 pm edt men charged in murder of jblm soldier tue oct 8 , 2013 6 : 29 pm edt madigan nurse killed in afghanistan tue oct 8 , 2013 2 : 29 pm edt 3 men booked on murder charges may be connected to jblm soldiers death mon oct 7 , 2013 10 : 29 am edt jblm soldier killed sun oct 6 , 2013 06 : 29 am edt killer who shot seattle man in front of his kids asks for leniency fri oct 11 , 2013 12 : 29 am edt charge : boeing subcontractor paid for ’ inside info ’ worth millions tue oct 8 , 2013 12 : 29 pm edt what if car boss mulally took over at microsoft ?
tue oct 8 , 2013 2 : 29 pm edt microsoft says ceo ballmer to retire in 12 months fri aug 23 , 2013 10 : 29 am edt judgment day for gunman who killed seattle man in front of his children , parents fri oct 11 , 2013 12 : 29 am edt nasas closed , so here are some great local photos of the milky way thu oct 10 , 2013 10 : 29 pm edt nasas closed , so heres some great local photos of the milky way thu oct 10 , 2013 8 : 29 pm edt christie : if i was president , shutdown would be resolved thu oct 10 , 2013 8 : 29 pm edt japans ana unlikely to jump from boeing , experts say fri oct 11 , 2013 12 : 29 am edt boeings lost jal order to airbus to have ripple effect tue oct 8 , 2013 02 : 29 am edt house fire in mountlake terrace displaces 6 fri oct 11 , 2013 02 : 29 am edt memorial for toby saks set for oct .
14 at benaroya hall fri oct 11 , 2013 02 : 29 am edt espns college gameday puts seattle on big football stage fri oct 11 , 2013 02 : 29 am edt cougar flags aim to score , too , on gameday fri oct 11 , 2013 02 : 29 am edt uw on big gameday stage , rallies to go duck hunting fri oct 11 , 2013 02 : 29 am edt no ride in the park in plans for sound transits lynnwood link fri oct 11 , 2013 12 : 29 am edt is the worst over for pc sales decline ?
wed oct 9 , 2013 6 : 29 pm edt vocations and priestly formation > priesthooddiscernmentwhat is a vocation ? the word " vocation " comes from the latin word " vocare " .
this means a calling , and invitation .
god created us and he is actively involved in our life .
god is always calling us to be what he created us to be .
a vocation is our call , our invitation to follow him.do i have a vocation ? is god calling me ?
yes .
god calls every person to himself .
we could say that god calls us to be one of his children , a disciple , a saint ( holy ) , a servant , and a great lover .
these five universal calls are lived out in one of four vocational paths or lifestyles .
because god created us for happiness , we will never experience the full joy that god intends for us unless we live out our call in the vocational path or lifestyle that he placed within us at conception.what is my vocation ? simply put , our vocation is to know , love , and serve god completely so that we may be happy here on earth and with him in heaven for all eternity .
we are made for god .
we comoros : dã © claration de la mission des services du fmi dans l 'union des comores [ imf ] une équipe des services du fonds monétaire international ( fmi ) a séjourné à moroni du 17 septembre au 1er octobre pour des entretiens sur la sixième revue de l ’ accord au titre de la facilité élargie de crédit ( fec ) 1 en faveur de l ’ union des comores . ( 10 / 1 / 2013 12 : 33 : 26 pm ) uae - prostitute accuses man of ripping her clothes off on love : ’ i never felt so calm in my life ’ on love : ’ we have a deep appreciation for each other ’ on love : & ldquo ; we both wanted to be together for so long ’ are you getting married in the washington-area ?
would you like to see your nuptials featured in the washington post ?
fill out the form and you could be featured in the paper or online .
a couple who met in college and then moved to the district get married at the st. regis hotel .
a pair of skeleton athletes go headfirst down the aisle .
they won each other ’ s hearts — < br > and a contest a d.c. couple weds at new york ’ s empire state building on valentine ’ s day .
for an arlington couple , the new year coincides with the start of a new life .
hate the garter toss ?
don ’ t want dad to walk you down the aisle ?
carolyn hax explains how to buck tradition .
carolyn hax on who should pay for the wedding , and what to do when your budget and your wedding plans don ’ t match .
here ’ s a roundup of what you might like to give or receive .
" the huffington post " is a registered trademark of thehuffingtonpost.com , inc .
all rights reserved . socratic news la grande man walking across u.s. in honor of son is hit , killed by truck thu oct 10 , 2013 12 : 24 pm edt father julian cassar moving on wed oct 9 , 2013 2 : 24 pm edt obituaries for oct .
9 , 2013 wed oct 9 , 2013 2 : 24 pm edt chandler at its level best wed oct 9 , 2013 2 : 24 pm edt chad drive sitepicked for clinic fri mar 1 , 2013 04 : 24 am est lakeview ponders street legal atvs fri oct 11 , 2013 04 : 24 am edt medford man popped for meth possession fri oct 11 , 2013 06 : 24 am edt woman gets pen time for burglaries burgariesrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrr fri oct 11 , 2013 06 : 24 am edt all that jazz , and education , too fri oct 11 , 2013 06 : 24 am edt surviving hearts donates to st. lukes respite home thu oct 10 , 2013 2 : 24 pm edt man arrested in kelsoshooting mon oct 7 , 2013 12 : 24 pm edt sw corridor plan stirs upcontroversy mon oct 7 , 2013 12 : 24 pm edt tim becker ’ s life atlarge mon oct 7 , 2013 12 : 24 pm edt blazers rookie mccollum fracturesfoot mon oct 7 , 2013 10 : 24 am edt timbers draw 2-2 withwhitecaps mon oct 7 , 2013 10 : 24 am edt douglas county moms tue sep 10 , 2013 8 : 24 pm edt couple charged in forgery for counterfeit cash fri oct 11 , 2013 06 : 24 am edt nw navigator : hit the road for entertainment in the northwest fri oct 11 , 2013 06 : 24 am edt olys alone atop cvc fri oct 11 , 2013 06 : 24 am edt so , what was the reason for shutting down the government ?
post editorial cartoonist ann telnaes shares her drawings of the scenes at the court.ann telnaes ’ s animationsann telnaes ’ s archive at the cartoonist group gop hitching a ride out of the government shutdown mess how the debt limit puts senate republicans in a jam telekom austria is set to pull out of the bidding for serbian cable operator sbb due to uncertainty over how much it will have to pay for new frequencies on its home turf , a source close to the matter ... ( 10 / 9 / 2013 10 : 46 : 06 am ) july 18 , 2013 the 2013 census of the north sound stingray population was just completed this past week and the news is generally good .
on day two of the census i had a late start as i was able to meet with the new chief officer in the ministry of the environment dr dax basdeo and mla roy mctaggart in the government ...
google changes terms to add user data to web adsusa todaygoogle will soon put your face , name , and content in its adsars technica - by casey johnstonopinion : google to put user photos , comments in online ad endorsementswashington postsee all 53 sourcesrelated advertising suspect ’ s picture released in subway sex attack thu oct 10 , 2013 3 : 21 pm edt exclusive : jwoww rips christie on gay marriage stance fri oct 11 , 2013 05 : 21 am edt it ’ s ’ inn ’ with the old at viceroy hotel fri oct 11 , 2013 02 : 31 am edt heartache as palms outgrow city lounge fri oct 11 , 2013 05 : 21 am edt dad of baby shot dead in stroller busted for robbery fri oct 11 , 2013 05 : 21 am edt de blasio played faves with constituents fri oct 11 , 2013 03 : 21 am edt jerks charge to see banksy piece fri oct 11 , 2013 03 : 21 am edt heartache as imported palms outgrow city lounge fri oct 11 , 2013 03 : 21 am edt tutor : obamacare cancels my cheaper plan fri oct 11 , 2013 03 : 21 am edt two are charged in plan to send goods to taliban fri oct 11 , 2013 01 : 21 am edt lhota continues to trail de blasio by wide margin , poll finds thu oct 10 , 2013 11 : 21 pm edt no clues in deaths of brooklyn mother and infant thu oct 10 , 2013 11 : 21 pm edt the quashing of a case against a christie ally thu oct 10 , 2013 11 : 21 pm edt volunteers swarm nyc in search for missing autistic boy thu oct 10 , 2013 11 : 21 pm edt wwii vet from nj mourned thu oct 10 , 2013 11 : 21 pm edt by winning the wta for the & ldquo ; caribbean ’ s leading honeymoon destination & rdquo ; it automatically affords antigua and barbuda the opportunity to be nominated within the same category at the wta global awards .
this is an accolade that the destination will be striving to coup from its caribbean competitors .
antigua and barbuda has also received several accolades by both brides magazine and about.com as one of the caribbean ’ s top destinations for weddings and honeymoons .
the huffington post has also recently cited antigua and barbuda as one of the top five honeymoon destinations in the world.reads : 3296 india 's rupee has faced a lot of volatility ... ( 10 / 10 / 2013 10 : 46 : 14 am ) be captivated by the pristine landscape of antarctica and the abundant wildlife of south georgia from the comforts of a luxury , state-of-the-art vessel with kayaks and world-class guides .
wimco announces its top 5 new villas on st barts for 2014 ; all include access to unmatched concierge services he said the decision to run ’ rai ’ on daily or weekly basis solely lay on the firm ’ s discretion since the newspapers ’ ’ registrar gave the company permission to do so in 1994 .
the coalition said the news on the banning of the two tabloids had shocked the organisations in that the government has interfered with freedom of information which is a key pillar in good governance .
in a related development , the committee to protect journalists ( cpj ) condemned the decision by the government to suspend the two kiswahili dailies on accusations of sedition. engaged in a civil war driven by hostilities between hutu and tutsi peoples from un and chair of the burundi configuration of the un peacebuilding commission reconciliation commission to be operational by january 2012 and to establish a judicial mechanism to address impunity after the trc has completed its work , " said landgren , " these are important commitments .
the government has underlined to bnub that the trc process must be grounded in reconciliation and not in score seger said that the pbc is supportive of the creation of is also a way of tackling the present and the future too , " he said , " it 's but i think we are on the right track and ready to support the country there . " justice to un high commissioner for human rights navi pillay in geneva on may 3 .
des algériens mangent en public en plein ramadan , une première plus de 500 algériens ont mangé et bu en public en plein ramadan samedi dans la ville " rebelle " de tizi ouzou , dans une première action collective du genre pour marquer leur liberté de choix face à " l 'islamisation " du pays .
" il y a un climat de terreur qui règne contre ceux qui ne jeûnent pas " durant le mois de jeûne sacré musulman du ramadan , dénonce à l 'afp l 'un d 'eux , ali , la quarantaine , un technicien de cette ville kabyle située à 100 km d 'alger. acquiesce .
" il faut que la religion reste du domaine du privé " , dit-il en parmi les participants à cette action , figurent des citoyens sans affiliation et des militants politiques , surtout berbères , qui n 'hésitent pas à afficher le un étudiant de 18 ans , lounès , va encore plus loin en arborant une pancarte sur laquelle est écrit : " je ne suis pas arabe .
je ne suis pas obligé d 'être la ville de tizi ouzou a été le théâtre de troubles parfois sanglants liés aux revendications culturelles et identitaires des kabyles qui ont très mal vécu face à un public essentiellement jeune et masculin , armé de bouteilles d 'eau , de jus , de pain , de cigarettes et même de bières pour l 'un d 'eux , le président du mouvement pour l 'autonomie de la kabylie ( mak ) , bouaziz aït chebib , a revendiqué " l 'attachement ancestral " des kabyles " à la liberté de conscience " . de la religion " , lance-t-il , applaudi par les manifestants postés devant la préfecture sur le principal axe routier de cette ville de quelque 150.000 habitants , sans le moindre contrôle apparent de forces de sécurité .
et d 'annoncer que des manifestations similaires sont prévues ce jour à bejaïa , ville portuaire kabyle , et même en france et au canada , où vivent d 'importantes pendant le ramadan durant lequel les musulmans s 'abstiennent de boire , de manger , de fumer et d 'avoir des relations sexuelles du lever jusqu 'au coucher du soleil , les restaurants sont ouverts seulement dans les hôtels de luxe , et les autorités tout autant que les religieux incitent la population à respecter le jusque dans les années 1980 , dans les villes au moins , les restaurants étaient ouverts et ne jeûnaient que ceux qui le voulaient .
la guerre anti-islamiste de plus de dix ans ( à partir des années 1990 ) a changé la donne .
depuis , la société civile et nombre de partis d 'opposition avec le printemps arabe qui a vu l 'arrivée au pouvoir d 'islamistes dans ce rassemblement à tizi ouzou , l 'une des principales villes de kabylie , a été lancé dans la foulée d 'un contrôle de police effectué sur dénonciation le 19 juillet dans un bar fermé d 'une commune proche , tigzirt , où des jeunes déjeunaient .
le propriétaire , qui s 'était vu retirer sa licence , a finalement pu le wali de tizi ouzou , abdelkader bouazeghi , avait alors expliqué qu 'il ce n 'était pas la première fois que des mesures au moins vexatoires étaient prises contre des non jeûneurs .
des chrétiens algériens se sont même retrouvés devant la justice ces dernières années pour avoir refusé de faire carême .
" quelque 80 & percnt des algériens sont d 'accord avec ceux qui protestent contre le pouvoir grandissant des religieux dans le pays " , dit le technicien ali .
pour hamid , un retraité de tizi ouzou venu exprimer son soutien au mouvement , " il faut bien mettre un holà à tout cela : on ne peut pas forcer tout le monde à aller au paradis " , la fin ultime " promise " à tout pratiquant .
uc coach tuberville settles investment lawsuit thu oct 10 , 2013 6 : 23 pm edt what will the streetcar look like ?
and will you be able to ride for free ?
thu oct 10 , 2013 6 : 23 pm edt what if qualls can ’ t get the money for phase 2 of the streetcar ?
thu oct 10 , 2013 6 : 23 pm edt how much of a bargain are cincinnati reds games ?
thu oct 10 , 2013 4 : 23 pm edt netflix lifts schaeffer ’ s expert to big lead in cincinnati stock-picking contest thu oct 10 , 2013 4 : 23 pm edt remke biggs drops name , rebrands thu oct 10 , 2013 4 : 23 pm edt are you prepared for an emergency at work ?
thu oct 10 , 2013 2 : 23 pm edt dayton native ’ s treasures chronicle the city ’ s past fri oct 11 , 2013 06 : 23 am edt missing cleveland boy may be headed here fri oct 11 , 2013 06 : 23 am edt are 2 organizations in marketing war ?
fri oct 11 , 2013 06 : 23 am edt new chief ’ s priorities fit with city ’ s policing progress fri oct 11 , 2013 06 : 23 am edt pooch parade and harvest fest set for oct .
19 fri oct 11 , 2013 06 : 23 am edt wife of man hit , killed in nky : ’ do the right thing ’ fri oct 11 , 2013 12 : 23 am edt walkers ’ light the night ’ for cancer research fri oct 11 , 2013 12 : 23 am edt arrest made in carthage burglary thu oct 10 , 2013 10 : 23 pm edt bearcats ’ tuberville settles fraud lawsuit thu oct 10 , 2013 10 : 23 pm edt gop meeting with obama called ’ very useful ’ thu oct 10 , 2013 8 : 23 pm edt even in the age of etfs , alan whitman of morgan stanley is a big believer in selecting individual stocks for each of his clients .
avoiding the perils of " over-diversification . "
perdue antes up $ 1.8m in senate race thu oct 10 , 2013 5 : 10 pm edt emory launches lou gehrig ’ s disease trial thu oct 10 , 2013 5 : 10 pm edt the ticket : gravity thu oct 10 , 2013 3 : 10 pm edt sprite cranberry introduced for holidays thu oct 10 , 2013 3 : 10 pm edt hope ?
shutdown / debt talks but no resolution yet thu oct 10 , 2013 11 : 10 pm edt two wanted in at & t store robberies in smyrna thu oct 10 , 2013 7 : 10 pm edt man walks 750 miles to atlanta to honor mom who has alzheimers thu oct 10 , 2013 5 : 10 pm edt fairburn babysitter sentenced to 10 years for childs death thu oct 10 , 2013 1 : 10 pm edt cdc furloughs hampered salmonella probe wed oct 9 , 2013 9 : 10 pm edt fairburn babysitter sentenced to 10 years for childs death thu oct 10 , 2013 7 : 10 pm edt father william fournier was ordained to the priesthood on june 9 , 1973 , by bishop paul anderson for the oblates of mary immaculate .
in 1992 , he entered the diocese of duluth and was incardinated to the diocese in 1994 .
father fournier served as the director of communications and as auditor in the tribunal for the diocese of duluth and was a board member for st. ann ’ s residence in duluth .
msgr. alexander suchan was ordained to the priesthood at the cathedral in katowic , poland , in 1988 .
zier helped a client buy a herd of bison for his ranch in montana .
now he gets periodic gifts of bison jerky as a thank you they may offer support during times of stress , but for now they are " dead money " within a portfolio , he says .
" i never feel annoyed or upset that i have to get up or go to the office .
i 'm getting paid to do what i like to do anyway – help people , and talk about the markets . "
now that he 's older and wiser , zier accepts that knowledge like that can be elusive .
" the market is always changing ; it 's like a puzzle or a game that you can never win because someone rewrites the rules or hides a piece , and you have to go back to try to figure out what has happened , " he says .
" but at least i now feel that i understand the principles and how it works . "
lapann has only recently hired a manager who uses dividend-paying stocks .
" i had to ask myself , have i been missing out on something here by being a contrarian ? "
" it was almost a given that lapann would hang out his own shingle after a spell in portfolio management at pell rudman : he hails from a long line of entrepreneurs .
at the other end of the spectrum , lapann is hiring managers to scour the landscape for companies that are growing sustainably at a more rapid clip than the global economy .
one is swedish radiation-therapy equipment manufacturer elekta francais 's lowest grades in college were in accounting and taxation -- but he ended up as a tax partner at deloitte before moving on to aspiriant .
an entrepreneur asked francais to help him identify which of his two sons , rivals since childhood , was best-suited to take over the reins at the family-owned firm .
" one of the sons called one of the interviews i did ' the spanish inquisition , ' " he says .
the transition was successful and all the family members are still speaking to each other . "
the best bet in stocks now , he maintains , are blue-chips with the ability to access new markets and use technology to cut costs ; apple as a teenager , brighton saw people in his parents ' well-off social circle – ivy league-educated , working as professionals – make big financial errors .
so he resolved at an early age that he wouldn 't do the same .
this year ’ s top attractions you can ’ t miss out on in hong kong !
if your shipment has been received by customs and you refuse it because you will not pay the tariffs or taxes , we will refund you the cost of the product after charging you for the shipping and additional fees required to return the package to us .
one man charged so far in connection with bank robbery in chateaupittsburgh post gazetteone person arrested in north side bank robberytribune-reviewsee realtime coveragesee all 7 sourcesrelated bank robberies african states advised not to pull out of icc na prosper makene addressing journalists in dar es salaam after the swearing in via a video link , justice steven bwana said it was unwise for african states to stand out of the icc since it was necessary for them to cleanse their administrative manners .
vatican ii , gravissimum educationis introduction ) & ldquo ; & hellip ; the duty of educating belongs to the church , not merely because she must be recognized as a human society capable of educating , but especially because she has the responsibility of announcing the way of salvation to all men , of communicating the life of christ to those who believe , and , in her unfailing solicitude , of assisting men to be able to come to the fullness of this life .
the church is bound as a mother to give to these children of hers an education by which their whole life can be imbued with the spirit of christ and at the same time do all she can to promote for all peoples the complete perfection of the human person , the good of earthly society and the building of a world that is more human . & rdquo ; ( vous surfez sur un appareil portable ?
rendez-vous sur m.huffingtonpost.com pour consulter les pages mobiles du huffington post .
naufrage d 'un bateau transportant 250 migrants entre malte et la sicile international - des attentats terroristes viennent de frapper le kenya et le nigéria .
ils surviennent alors que ces deux pays sont engagés sur la voie de la démocratie et connaissent un développement économique sans précédent .
je m 'y suis rendue récemment , accompagnée d 'entreprises françaises .
j 'ai découvert des femmes et des hommes ouverts sur le monde , soucieux d 'attirer des investissements étrangers , de nouer des partenariats , de prendre leur place dans l 'économie mondiale .
j 'ai rencontré des officiels prêts à des réformes importantes pour sécuriser le monde des affaires et les relations commerciales .
ce n 'est pas par hasard que le kenya a été frappé dans un centre commercial et qu 'au nigéria ce sont des étudiants qui ont été assassinés : dans les deux cas , c 'est le dynamisme et l 'avenir de l 'afrique que les terroristes veulent abattre .
cinéma - la vie d 'adèle d 'abdellatif kechiche fait partie de ces films qui renforcent l 'être .
d 'ailleurs , je pense que ce film devrait être érigé en fête nationale , en hommage à toutes les vies de ces femmes invisibles qui se sont aimées dans l 'obscurité d 'alcôves sombres , de chambres de bonnes humides et étroites , et qui se sont caressées en secret , ces deux derniers siècles .
prix nobel de la paix , fondateur de la grameen bank développement - il est plus important que jamais de réévaluer le concept de capitalisme .
continuerons-nous à sacrifier l 'environnement , notre santé et le futur de nos enfants dans la poursuite effrénée du profit du pouvoir , ou prendrons-nous le destin de la planète en main éducation - " mon père dit que je suis très jolie " , raconte martha , en expliquant qu 'elle avait dû abandonner l 'école l 'année dernière à cause de la sécheresse .
" je lui rapporterai beaucoup de vaches quand il me mariera .
il dit que je ne dois pas m 'embêter avec l 'éducation , simplement rester à la maison et attendre d 'être mariée . "
immigration - il y a eu beaucoup de réactions sur le nouveau drame qui a frappé la semaine passée la petite île italienne de lampedusa ; autant d 'expressions indignées , émues , rageuses qui laissent toutefois un goût amer avec cette impression de " déjà vu " d 'une histoire qui se répète .
députée européenne , ancienne ministre de l 'environnement , présidente de cap21 et du rassemblement citoyen politique - la tempête médiatique du " poulegate " calmée ( je n 'avais jamais fait autant de plateaux et d 'interviews de ma vie ) , je prends quelques minutes pour tirer , encore à chaud , quelques leçons de cette séquence qui me semble bien moins anecdotique qu 'il y parait .
vice-président de la licra , rédacteur en chef du droit de vivre le rapport carli sur les urgences ... sera-t-il seulement un rapport de plus ?
naufrage d 'un bateau transportant250 migrants entre malte et la sicilegoogle quand les hommes politiques tweetent les lettres d 'insultes qu 'ils reçoiventtwitter david assouline l 'arme secrète de marisol touraine à l 'assemblée : michel polnareffcapture dailymotion le pen se compare à de gaulle , traité de " bolchévique " et de " fasciste " figaro les talibans " se réjouissent " que malala n 'ait pas eu le prix nobelafp quiz - si vous faites plus de 14 / 20 , vous êtes calé en nobel de la paix les visuels de la campagne choc des femen contre la prostitutiondmitry kostyukov / femen conseil constitutionnel : l 'extraction du gaz de schiste sera bien interditeafp45 % des français sont contre qu 'aurait fait dati face au député caqueteur ?
" j 'aurais imité le bruit du blaireau " bfmtv vidéoisabelle , la chômeuse qui crève l 'écran face à copécapture ftvi tortionnaire de cleveland : suicide ou pratique sexuelle qui a mal tourné ? reuters une députée ps lance , " le sport rend sourd " .
douillet crie au scandaleafp le fmi propose de taxer votre épargne pour solder la dettereuters zuckerberg achète 4 maisons de voisins pour conserver son intimitéreuters vidéosdes huskys imitent un bébé en train de ramperkenji chen youtubepopulaire le ministère tunisien lui interdit de jouer contre un israélienafp un invité surprise se glisse par erreur dans le dernier bridget jonesworking title how the two parties can deal , if obama will let them .
no matter how you slice it , the shutdown has been bad news for the republican party ’ s image .
obama can ’ t bow , even a little , in the face of the tea party .
for when wearing pants or just dressing as veronica corningstone is out of the question .
who needs a guy fawkes mask when you 've got short shorts and thigh-high boots ?
if you want to be a sexy " star wars " character , you can 't go wrong with princess leia and her gold bikini .
if you want to be chewbacca , you should probably at least wear pants .
i didn ’ t think at this stage of my life that i would be getting ready to go back to school !
actually , i was invited to attend a colloquium for newly-appointed bishops , to be held in rome from sept .
9-17 , by his eminence cardinal marc ouellet , the new prefect of the congregation for bishops .
i had the great privilege of remembering you , my flock , at the holy places and to the holy father himself .
in particular , i remembered you at the shrine of our lady of the rosary of pompeii , where i offered mass for our diocese and asked our lady ’ s help and protection at the tombs of st. peter and st. paul and to the holy father himself .
one act of & ldquo ; parsifal , ’ staged as a concert , provided an abbreviated but intense jolt of music .
the hip chamber orchestra made an auspicious washington debut at the dumbarton oaks museum .
at the kennedy center , wynton marsalis ’ s & ldquo ; abyssinian & rdquo ; melds the sacred and the secular.1381182235000 a program by the phillips camerata of string quartets highlights van gogh ’ s contemporaries.1381180320000 the group ’ s 80-minute , mostly acoustic set at the hamilton was part of a non-traditional tour1380837780000 christoph eschenbach led the nso in a program of favorites with yo-yo ma and cameron carpenter.1380587891000 & ldquo ; missa ayo visto lo mappamundi & rdquo ; by juan cornago was the centerpiece of the consort ’ s program.1380505997000 it ’ s been a long road for the pair , widely credited — and blamed — for influencing the genre ’ s new sound.1380298920000 orchestras and multimedia : pandering to new audiences , or breaking new pathways for the old ? 1380296439000 icona pop wants to be more than just ’ i love it ’ at atlas , trio ’ s debut imparts warmth and life to new music britney spears , & ldquo ; work b---- & ldquo ; : it ’ s trending , but is it good ?
inscape continues quest to show new music at its best review | outstanding music drowns out any uneven voices on opera ’ s opening day at the kennedy center .
twenty years of memories and marlboros at the black cat solange will shimmy her way back to d.c. this fall the organist is unafraid to challenge traditions in seeking new audiences for his instrument.1378488900000 kendrick lamar is among 56 artists expected to perform at the touring extravaganza at rfk stadium.1378488540000 perry 's new video turns her into the queen of the jungle and she debuts her new " roar " fan contest .
how did st. leonard become a hot spot for concerts ?
music review | trent reznor ’ s ’ hesitation marks ’ is grand , creepy and meticulously realized.1378153560000 russia has embraced a hysterical loathing of gay people , embodied in a law that prohibits gay & ldquo ; propaganda . & rdquo ; 1377874860000 take a look at some of the post ’ s best michael jackson coverage on the ’ king of pop ’ s birthday .
1377800939000 kerry in afghanistan for urgent security talksfox newssenior pakistan taliban captured in afghanistanusa todaysee all 274 sourcesrelated war in afghanistan ( 2001 – present ) afghanistan awaits its fate at the hands of the talibantelegraph.co.ukkarzai lashes out at the us for its role and focus in afghanistannew york timeshighly cited : afghanistan election : warlords and technocrats seek to replace karzaibbc newssee all 152 sourcesrelated hamid karzai the president of benin took advantage of françois hollande ’ s presence at the investiture of ibrahim boubacar keita to have a discreet discussion with him about the talon affair . ( ... )
the idea of anchoring a re-gasification barge off benin ’ s coast is gaining traction .
and local investors have the means to put pressure on the government . ( ... )
the non-executive director of nordgold is keeping a close eye on the fall in the ( ... )
a professor at cheikh anta diop university in dakar , senegal , oumar ndongo has been ( ... )
" mock sun " ( also " sun dogs " ) is a colloquial term for a phenomenon called " parhelion " which occurs fairly commonly in polar atmospheres .
it is a false image of the sun , created by the bending of rays of sunlight within crystals of ice in the atmosphere .
parhelia are usually observed in pairs , one on each side of the sun and at the same elevation .
they tend to be red-coloured on the side nearest the sun .
parhelia are quite close to the sun when the sun is close to the horizon , but move further away as the angle above the horizon increases .
antigua-and barbuda gets top rank in commonwealth for access to ict january 4 , 2013 let there be no doubt , if gonsalves had managed to ram home the new constitution and dismiss the queen , we would be deeply in the do-do right now .
hola , mis amigos , permite hablar ...
alianza bolivariana para los pueblos de nuestra américa .
ted cruz cons the people and the republican partyguardian expressbudget battle may strengthen tea party grip on gopthe globe and mail - by paul koringsee all 157 sourcesrelated ted cruz final fantasy vi coming to android and ios .
here & # 8217 ; s why it is the best of the series .
senator ron wyden ( d-ore . ) and rep. jim sensenbrenner ( r-wisc . ) warn not all nsa " reform " proposals are created equally .
good samaritans may soon win a bit of cash for contributing to open-source project security .
though it is early to talk about relegation , but the team might have overstayed at the pool to highlight a possible confirmation at the end of the season if there will be no improvement .
afpsee realtime coveragefrance upholds ban on frackingnew york times- & lrm ; 1 hour ago & lrm ; paris - france 's highest court on friday upheld a government ban on a controversial drilling technique known as hydraulic fracturing , in a defeat for a method that has revolutionized the oil and natural gas industry in the united states.france upholds ban on hydraulic fracturingmuscatine journalsee all 49 sourcesrelated : hydraulic fracturing adoptive parents sentenced in the rapes of their two children arctic oil discovery heralds more finds in norway ’ s barents sea as the findings of the ipcc climate report are announced , wwf 's samantha smith reflects on her years spent in the arctic , and the lives and cultures we are losing with the ice as i watch climate change eat away at the arctic sea ice , i feel sadness , resignation and even anger at how we could have let this happen – how we continue to let this happen .
i worked for wwf in the arctic for more than ... ( 9 / 27 / 2013 1 : 27 : 00 pm ) new customers can create an account so that you can shop faster in the future and keep track of orders you have made in the past .
we use the personal information we collect from and about you for the purposes set forth below .
please note that we may use and disclose other information for any purpose , except where we are required to do otherwise under applicable law .
if we are required to treat other information as personal information under applicable law , then we may use and disclose it for all the purposes for which we use and disclose personal information .
to complete a merger or sale of assets .
if dow jones sells all or part of its business or makes a sale or transfer of its assets or is otherwise involved in a merger or transfer of all or a material part of its business , dow jones may transfer your information to the party or parties involved in the transaction as part of that transaction .
shah alam , 10 okt ( bernama ) -- seorang mekanik warga romania hari initerlepas daripada hukuman gantung sampai mati apabila mahkamah tinggi shah alammengurangkan pertuduhan asal terhadapnya daripada mengedar 2.5kg methampethaminedi lapangan terbang antarabangsa kl ( klia ) tahun lepas kepada memiliki dadahitu.hakim datuk nurchaya arshad menghukum stefan coroi , 29 , lapan tahun penjaradan 10 kali ... ( 10 / 10 / 2013 6 : 16 : 37 am ) speaking on behalf of the company ’ s support to education in the country , airtel ’ s dodoma zonal sales manager stephene akyoo said : & ldquo ; airtel is providing these books for the purpose of improving the quality of education in the country and also to bring in economic and development freedom to the communities . & rdquo ; naturopathic doctor and bestselling author of the hormone diet , the supercharged hormone diet and the carb sensitivity program can he turn the tide for these struggling first nations ?
the pulsetrudeau liberals surging in manitoba , poll suggestscpbad news for mulcair 's ndp ' shocked ' : nbc has never seen numbers this bad for gop a women 's magazine without any photoshop ?
yep , it finally existsverilyhot onhot on but the manner in which he did this may have made the aca unworkable , thereby putting it on a path to ultimate extinction .
tom toles on health care : & thinsp ; a collection of cartoons on the debate .
this was said yesterday in dar es salaam by prof yassin mgonda at the opening of the national consultation meeting to discuss the east african standards draft for soaps and detergents ( easc / tc 074-surface active agents ) .
this was said last week in arusha by the deputy minister for labour and employment dr makongoro mahanga at the just ended 23rd ppf annual members and stakeholders conference .
industry and trade minister dr abdallah kigoda made the remark in dar es salaam on wednesday during the nigerian national day celebrations .
two investors have teamed up to inject funds into a dar es salaam-based firm as they seek to help in improving cargo handling at the dar es salaam port .
this was said over the weekend in dar es salaam by a farmer identified as santulo mwaikela when explaining development and challenges facing the agricultural sector in the region .
under the agreement , at least 10,000mt of maize will be transported from mbeya to dar es salaam and 10,000mt of fertiliser will be ferried from dar es salaam port to mbeya , for onward shipment to malawi .
crb deletes 4 contractors for failing to adhere to regulations the call was made on wednesday by the mwanza regional commissioner , evarist ndikilo , when inaugurating world tourism day which is being observed in mwanza at the national level . & ldquo ; i did not believe it when i looked under the crown and realised that i had won myself a motorcycle .
dealers in lubricants have said they are ready to support the government in its fight to remove substandard products in the market in order to save the life of vehicles and machines .
tanga cement company pesents two classrooms , desks to mtwara school tanga cement company ( tcc ) limited has constructed and handed over a block of two classrooms , toilets and desks to mangowele primary school in mtwara region at the weekend .
the government has said it will ensure that air and travel industries are not overtaxed so as to further strengthen and attract more investments in the sub-sectors .
the minister of state in prime minister ’ s office responsible for investment and privatisation , dr mary nagu made the observation yesterday in dar es salaam and attributed the fact is mainly due to lower investments in sugar industry .
the imported furniture that tanzanians are going for is said not to be durable although it is very expensive .
the epza director general , dr adelhelm meru revealed this to journalists recently in dar es salaam when commenting on the progress made by the authority for over the past six years .
the tanzania revenue athourity in mbeya region has impounded a huge consignment of sachets of alcohol smuggled into the country through dubious means .
the new leadership is seen as the hope for the chamber which was said to be digging its own pit .
demand keeps meth producers skirting the law fri oct 11 , 2013 02 : 18 am edt suspect in murder pleads not guilty , waives arraignment fri oct 11 , 2013 02 : 18 am edt police identify man suspected of kaldi ’ s robbery thu oct 10 , 2013 6 : 18 pm edt a random act of kindness from a stranger thu oct 10 , 2013 8 : 18 pm edt homeless sex offender faces new felony charges thu oct 10 , 2013 2 : 18 pm edt propofol supply continues to be issue fri oct 11 , 2013 06 : 18 am edt 3 mid-missouri counties not on aid list fri oct 11 , 2013 06 : 18 am edt joplin attorney may be facing criminal probe fri oct 11 , 2013 12 : 18 am edt teva pharmaceuticals plans to axe 5,000 employees thu oct 10 , 2013 4 : 18 pm edt stonegate mortgage ipo raises $ 180m thu oct 10 , 2013 2 : 18 pm edt faces of kansas city : kck man ’ s love of comics inspires him to reach for the stars thu oct 10 , 2013 10 : 18 pm edt probation violation lands kc man in prison thu oct 10 , 2013 10 : 18 pm edt mayor sly james unveils new kc logo thu oct 10 , 2013 10 : 18 pm edt liberty 7th grader reads a book a day thu oct 10 , 2013 8 : 18 pm edt police reopen woman ’ s 1994 homicide thu oct 10 , 2013 2 : 18 pm edt ku case shows how backlash from professors ’ remarks can inflame politicians sun sep 29 , 2013 02 : 18 am edt study of millennials alters economic assumptions fri oct 11 , 2013 12 : 18 am edt burlington is opening two new area stores thu oct 10 , 2013 10 : 18 pm edt hba home remodeling show kicks off today fri oct 11 , 2013 06 : 18 am edt hba home remodeling show kicks off tomorrow thu oct 10 , 2013 10 : 18 pm edt experts warn about obamacare scams mon sep 30 , 2013 8 : 18 pm edt johnson , rush run wild for hillcrest fri oct 11 , 2013 04 : 18 am edt cardinals ’ champagne has been a staple since the ’ 80s thu oct 10 , 2013 4 : 18 pm edt alexian brothers ’ income soars after ascension merger thu oct 10 , 2013 4 : 18 pm edt former wellpoint executive takes top spot at corizon thu oct 10 , 2013 2 : 18 pm edt ban the box gives convicted felons better chance for job in illinois fri oct 11 , 2013 12 : 18 am edt county prosecutor urges dooley to drop out thu oct 10 , 2013 6 : 19 pm edt should lifeguards be required at hotel and apartment pools ?
thu oct 10 , 2013 2 : 18 pm edt strange donuts opens in maplewood fri oct 11 , 2013 06 : 18 am edt siue business school ranks as one of best in country thu oct 10 , 2013 8 : 18 pm edt cardinals and dodgers prepare for nlcs fri oct 11 , 2013 02 : 18 am edt soulard oktoberfest to show cardinals games fri oct 11 , 2013 12 : 18 am edt dog found shot , left for dead was euthanized thu oct 10 , 2013 10 : 18 pm edt lindenwood wrestler accused of infecting fellow student with hiv thu oct 10 , 2013 10 : 18 pm edt who are you wearing at work ?
fri oct 11 , 2013 06 : 18 am edt people in business fri oct 11 , 2013 02 : 18 am edt biometrics collected in ilala for national ids na malela kassim " we don 't know if in six weeks we 'll be in the same place but at least this opens the possibility " of a lasting deal , he said .
who is in control of the house in congress ?
i wonder .
hopewfaith : http : / / billmoyers.com / 2013 / 10 / 07 / report-conservative-dark-money-groups-planned-this-budget-standoff-for-months / who is in control of the house in congress ?
of course this kind of news goes up and down like a yo-yo , depending on whether there is a scintilla of sincrerity in obama 's willingness to " negotiate " .
but the larger , unreported story is the absolutely uselessness of so many federal jobs that obama has added at the expense of job growth in the private market. http : / / alineofsight.com / policy / much-of-the-federal-government-is-nonessential obama did not say " no " to a clean raise of the debt ceiling , however temporary .
an " expedition " can be any journey undertaken by an individual or organized group of people with a definite unique objective , be it for the purpose of discovery , science , or fundraising .
democratic republic of the congo + 2 others la rdc demande au hcr et à kigali d & # 039 ; expliquer l & # 039 ; arrivée de 200 familles venues du rwanda kinshasa , 2 octobre 2013 ( afp ) - kinshasa a demandé mercredi au haut-commissariat de l 'onu pour les réfugiés ( hcr ) et à kigali d 'expliquer l 'arrivée récente dans l 'est de la république démocratique du congo ( rdc ) de quelque 200 familles en provenance du rwanda voisin .
world + 5 others résultats inférieurs en matière de santé pour les minorités nairobi , 2 octobre 2013 ( irin ) - selon un nouveau rapport publié par minority rights group international ( mrg ) , les minorités présentent des résultats en matière de santé inférieurs au reste de la population .
une sélection d 'articles d 'irin sont publiés sur reliefweb .
trouvez d 'autres articles et analyses d 'irin sur http : / / www.irinnews.org cet article ne reflète pas nécessairement les vues des nations unies .
voir irin droits d 'auteur pour les conditions d 'utilisation .
goma , 1 octobre 2013 ( afp ) - deux cents familles arrivées du rwanda se sont installées ces jours-ci dans la zone contrôlée par les rebelles du m23 dans l 'est de la république démocratique du congo , a-t-on appris mardi de sources concordantes .
the saga of malala yousafzai is one of inspiration forged from terrible personal sacrifice .
one year ago , a taliban gunman boarded a school bus she was riding in pakistan ’ s swat valley , demanded to know , & ldquo ; who is malala ? , & rdquo ; and shot her in the head , along with two of her classmates .
she had defied the taliban with her support of schooling for girls , and the triggerman hoped to silence her and her beliefs .
he did not kill her , nor her convictions .
she survived after being flown to the united kingdom for treatment , and she has become a beacon of courage for millions of people .
malala yousafzai becomes an advocate for girls ’ education : & thinsp ; the pakistani teenager who was shot in the head by the taliban remains an outspoken critic of efforts to impose strict islamic law in pakistan .
on oct .
10 , she was awarded the sakharov prize by the european union , the region ’ s top human rights award .
the partial suspension of u.s. aid is unlikely to deter the sissi regime ’ s repressive tactics .
roya hakakian : blaming the west hides a war on women a primera vista , fatima aparentaba tener unos 4 o 5 meses .
pero , en realidad , acababa de cumplir su primer año de vida .
estaba entre los 126.000 niños con desnutrición aguda grave tratados en uno de los 425 centros nutricionales establecidos por el ministerio de salud de chad en 2012 como parte de la expansión de la atención en todo el sahel .
se llegó a cientos de miles de niños con la atención necesaria para salvar sus vidas .
tristemente , no se pudo llegar a otros muchos . * * il faut 1,4 milliard de dollars é.-u. maintenant pour les enfants qui vivent dans des situations de crise humanitaire , affirme l ’ unicef * * even though crude oil is trading near multiyear highs , the share prices of oil refiners are sinking fast , and the price at the pump may follow .
soco international plc gauged less than hoped for oil rates at the lideka east marine-1 well on a postsalt structure updip from its lideka marine-1 well that found shows of oil in the sendji is3 formation on the shallow-water marine xi block offshore & # 8230 ; man allegedly tried to strangle milford woman wed oct 9 , 2013 2 : 09 pm edt darien man charged in alleged prostitution bust thu oct 10 , 2013 4 : 09 pm edt new counselor curriculum at dhs to roll out in spring thu oct 10 , 2013 12 : 09 pm edt darien church ’ s history mirrors that of town thu oct 10 , 2013 12 : 09 pm edt ’ best chili ’ goes to the goose wed oct 9 , 2013 6 : 09 pm edt britten ’ s work celebrated by pro arte singers wed oct 9 , 2013 12 : 09 pm edt copyright copycats : rtm candidates ’ video caught in ’ web ’ of troubles thu oct 10 , 2013 2 : 09 pm edt cops : two pairs of pants not enough to hide shoplifter ’ s haul wed oct 9 , 2013 4 : 09 pm edt schools to eliminate drama , phys ed coordinators tue jan 8 , 2013 10 : 09 pm est homeowner stops suspected burglar fri oct 11 , 2013 02 : 09 am edt new haven homeowner catches burglar fri oct 11 , 2013 12 : 09 am edt police search for missing naugatuck man thu oct 10 , 2013 10 : 09 pm edt stamford ’ s sclafani gives columbus day parade flavor thu oct 10 , 2013 8 : 09 pm edt man pleads guilty in stamford laundromat murder wed oct 9 , 2013 8 : 09 pm edt tom cotton is a man of character , a veteran and a conservative . i believe he is a better choice than pryor . mark pryor is a democrat first . i am a voter a i will not vote for pryor . he 's botched hc and rural broadband internet access as well as punted on saving rural post offices .
publications weigh in on the megabank on the eve of its earnings report .
the charts for wal-mart , home depot , and macy 's do not bode well for the retail sector , or the broader market .
walgreen and tjx are bright spots .
all stateline stories and graphics may be republished in print or online by anyone for free .
all we ask is that you follow a few rules : • all stories must be attributed to stateline • any use of stateline material — in print or online — must include the following disclosure statement : “ stateline is a nonpartisan , nonprofit news service of the pew charitable trusts that provides daily reporting and analysis on trends in state policy . ” • stateline material may not be edited or changed , except for style reasons or to shorten for length • any use online must include a link back to our website • stateline material may not be republished wholesale or automatically without permissionstateline content is published daily at stateline.org and can be found on lexisnexis , factiva and news outlets served by mcclatchy-tribune information services . subscribe to our daily and weekly e-mails .
ollove was a long-time journalist at the baltimore sun , first as an enterprise the switch : upgrading to a new cell phone ?
a government shutdown means you could be waiting a while .
worried about default ?
how to fortify your finances as the markets reel why jpmorgan ’ s current woes may be the least of its problems talos is the army & # 039 ; s version of an iron man suit paraguay ppp bill is " privatization in disguise " - union guild asuncion , paraguay ( ap ) — as one of the richest men in one of latin america 's poorest countries , paraguay 's new president says he knows the wealthy can do more to combat poverty , starting with landowners like him who can afford to pay taxes on the soy profits that are fueling a booming economy . ( 9 / 19 / 2013 12 : 47 : 23 am ) nevada sesquicentennial medallions selling quickly fri oct 11 , 2013 04 : 19 am edt seven miles of pure joy fri oct 11 , 2013 04 : 19 am edt re / max offering hot air balloon rides on parade day fri oct 11 , 2013 04 : 19 am edt county discusses homelessness fri oct 11 , 2013 06 : 19 am edt white pine sheriff ’ s blotter fri sep 20 , 2013 10 : 19 am edt several small wrecks tying up traffic on i-15 nb fri oct 11 , 2013 02 : 19 am edt da instituting tougher dui penalties thu oct 10 , 2013 10 : 19 pm edt farewell , peggy pierce , nevada ’ s fiercest liberal lawmaker fri oct 11 , 2013 06 : 19 am edt do lakers have shot to contend ?
not likely fri oct 11 , 2013 04 : 19 am edt unlv students in second place in 19-team solar decathlon fri oct 11 , 2013 04 : 19 am edt off-camera acts led to run-in with suv driver in nyc , bikers say fri oct 11 , 2013 04 : 19 am edt kings beat lakers 104-86 in preseason in las vegas fri oct 11 , 2013 02 : 19 am edt wall street exhales as threat of us default eases thu oct 10 , 2013 6 : 19 pm edt wall street rallies as threat of us default eases thu oct 10 , 2013 4 : 19 pm edt did you miss these ?
ascuaga family ’ s sale of nugget , ’ knowshon sucks ’ tweet among top-read stories thursday evening on rgj.com thu oct 10 , 2013 10 : 19 pm edt blog : why is nevada dmv imposing surcharge at kiosks ?
thu oct 10 , 2013 4 : 19 pm edt web weather forecast for friday fri oct 11 , 2013 04 : 19 am edt schools practice shakeout fri oct 11 , 2013 12 : 19 am edt ascuaga ’ s nugget gets new owners fri oct 11 , 2013 12 : 19 am edt armed burglary suspect on the loose fri oct 11 , 2013 06 : 19 am edt soldier ’ s homecoming surprise fri oct 11 , 2013 04 : 19 am edt nevada sesquicentennial medallions nearing sell-out thu oct 10 , 2013 8 : 19 pm edt st. vincent ’ s to continue partnership with acsuaga ’ s nugget thu oct 10 , 2013 8 : 19 pm edt are we facing a debt ceiling overload ?
thu oct 10 , 2013 8 : 19 pm edt debunking flu shot myths thu oct 10 , 2013 8 : 19 pm edt speaking to the guardian yesterday in dar es salaam , heslb director of information , education and communication , cosmas mwaisobwa said the loan board has closed its doors and that no more sponsorships will be offered because it has exhausted its budget . & ldquo ; i think most of us here deserve to get the loan & hellip ; & rdquo ; said a student identified by the single name of john adding that & ldquo ; & hellip ; if heslb has run out of money it is better it declares it publicly instead of saying that we are not qualified for the loan , ’ ’ ice loss from the greenland and antarctic ice sheets is rising to the top as the main contributor to higher sea level .
it ’ s tempting to sympathize with the house speaker , putative ringmaster of an unruly and at times incoherent republican majority that delights in thinking the unthinkable .
how do you handle someone like rep. ted yoho even in antarctica , pollutants can be found in snow and ice cores .
nuclear fallout shows up clearly in the ice cores , and is linked to datable events .
while mccain didn 't name names , he faulted members of congress -- " tea partiers specifically " -- for wrongly telling " millions of americans " that obamacare can be defunded .
" we fought as hard as we could in a fair and honest manner and we lost , " mccain said .
" one of the reasons was because we were in the minority , and in democracies , almost always the majority governs and passes legislation . "
i see all thechatteringmoronswho filledtheseboards a few years back to push mccain as potus are now here castigating him as adodderingoldf001 .
most enjoyable .
gotta laughat theseregugnicants .
progressiveswin : i see all thechatteringmoronswho filledtheseboards a few years back to this beats all , no one is willing to take the blame for anything , it is plain to me that when obama was going around congress for a lot of his spending should have thrown up a red flag to everybody and that mess from the time obama started using his office like a dictator rather than a president and no one steped in and slowed him down puts the blame on the ones who was elected to do just that .
obama has done enough to be impeached and because no one tried to stop him from destroying this country he got the feeling he had so much power that he could do anything and get by with it .
well so far he has .
so , in other words , it was your fault , john , since you are the one who , in a gasp of desperation ( sound familiar ) gave palin and the tea party credibility . how many times does it have to bite you in the booty , john , for you to finally get it ?
marine3340 : no nia forrester , you are a clueless , out-of-touch ( liberal ? ) who and that , my friends , is all the gop has left . manufactured scandals and " well he did it too ! "
so all the scandals in the obama administration have been manufactured ?
in the sense that they were concocted in the white house , you are correct .
the gop will fade into oblivion , the way of the whigs , without the tea party .
peter _ talbot : devoutly to be wished , bigtimechillerm .
and since the tea party and the arizona republicans are so proud of this man hero . occupied az for over 25 yrs and did nothing for the state or country ........ such a big hero ........ and palin moved down the road next to him .
speak for yourself .
yes i believe in the constitution and fiscal responsibility , but i have a brain and believe in using it .
safe environment > information and referralwhen you dial 2-1-1 , or 1-800-543-7709 , you will speak to a local information and referral specialist , who can help you to : jpmorgan reports quarterly loss as it grapples with legal woesnew york timesjpmorgan chase proves it 's not invinciblemotley foolsee all 257 sourcesrelated bank coal production ’ s center in the u.s. has moved to wyoming and montana .
folk art center in asheville reopens fri oct 11 , 2013 02 : 22 am edt campaigning for council fri oct 11 , 2013 12 : 22 am edt today ’ s traffic : a few early problems fri oct 11 , 2013 06 : 22 am edt buses get new look in plans for rapid transit fri oct 11 , 2013 06 : 22 am edt rock hill declares war on infestation of cankerworms fri oct 11 , 2013 02 : 22 am edt police search for man in stabbing thu oct 10 , 2013 10 : 22 pm edt mike ditka : not running against obama was ’ biggest mistake ’ thu oct 10 , 2013 10 : 22 pm edt epicenter owners buy ballantyne development thu oct 10 , 2013 10 : 22 pm edt duke , unc celebrate national coming out day thu oct 10 , 2013 10 : 22 pm edt perquimans passes on peel ’ s stem school proposal thu oct 10 , 2013 10 : 22 pm edt rain , roadwork flood camden biz thu oct 10 , 2013 8 : 22 pm edt hester now a free man wed aug 14 , 2013 2 : 22 pm edt elimination of waiver creates little stir at bcc wed aug 14 , 2013 12 : 22 pm edt man arrested for shooting his brother wed aug 14 , 2013 12 : 22 pm edt tourney expected to bring in $ 300,000 thu oct 10 , 2013 2 : 22 pm edt fremont administrator is taking new job thu oct 10 , 2013 2 : 22 pm edt final numbers are in for local fair thu oct 10 , 2013 2 : 22 pm edt fifth man charged in series of burglaries this summer thu oct 10 , 2013 10 : 22 pm edt winston-salem police looking for ’ the mantis king ’ thu oct 10 , 2013 8 : 22 pm edt give a kid a coat kicks off today in high point fri oct 11 , 2013 06 : 22 am edt facility to be a safe haven for boys fri oct 11 , 2013 12 : 22 am edt column : foundation ’ experiences hawaii ’ at gala fri oct 11 , 2013 06 : 22 am edt going out for oct .
11 fri oct 11 , 2013 06 : 22 am edt friday final day to register to vote thu oct 10 , 2013 10 : 22 am edt search suspended for missing boater thu oct 10 , 2013 10 : 22 am edt new mobile site fri aug 9 , 2013 4 : 22 pm edt outlaw , odham formally request runoffs in new bern thu oct 10 , 2013 6 : 22 pm edt nc legislators troubled again by medicaid finances fri oct 11 , 2013 06 : 22 am edt film critical of nfl concussion policy has duke connection fri oct 11 , 2013 12 : 22 am edt 2 arrested in the murder of fayetteville mother , son thu oct 10 , 2013 10 : 22 pm edt underground gambling operation busted at fayetteville home thu oct 10 , 2013 8 : 22 pm edt program for at risk kids in nc affected by government shutdown thu oct 10 , 2013 8 : 22 pm edt durham dss braces for worst amid shutdown thu oct 10 , 2013 10 : 22 pm edt state to resume issuing wic vouchers friday thu oct 10 , 2013 10 : 22 pm edt hope ?
shutdown / debt talks but no resolution yet fri oct 11 , 2013 12 : 22 am edt two arrested in deaths of mother , son fri oct 11 , 2013 12 : 22 am edt funding secured to continue nc wic program fri oct 11 , 2013 06 : 22 am edt corley awarded scholarship thu oct 10 , 2013 2 : 22 pm edt new eyeglasses shop welcomes competition thu oct 10 , 2013 12 : 22 am edt new superintendent sworn in fri oct 11 , 2013 04 : 22 am edt officials : funding secured to continue wic program in nc fri oct 11 , 2013 12 : 22 am edt baby dies after being left in car in greensboro thu oct 3 , 2013 6 : 22 pm edt latvia agreed to extradite him to us , but it was overruled by european court . ( 10 / 10 / 2013 3 : 01 : 27 pm ) latvia is following the undemocratic footsteps of hungary with its proposed preamble to the constitution a utahn in the middle of an adopting a girl from latvia has been furloughed due to the government shutdown , and she said she doesn 't know how she will raise the money to complete the adoption . ( 10 / 9 / 2013 8 : 53 : 00 pm ) by bill alpert and saranya kapura tough investment banker has met his match breeding hungarian hogs .
seychelles inflation dips to 3.6 pct in september : stats office the 19-year-old rookie defenseman is learning how to make the transition from juniors to the nhl , without any guarantee of how long he ’ ll be in washington .
the post sports live crew on ted leonsis 's comments that he doesn 't " see any weaknesses " in the capitals .
are the capitals relying too much on the power play ?
the explanation from the nhl on why backstrom 's would-be goal was disallowed and reaction from the caps on the play .
alex ovechkin scores a power-play goal in the opening period , but the capitals ’ offense is awol the rest of the way in loss in dallas .
a five-part series examines how medical issues are handled in the nfl and the implications for current and former players .
us action against st lucia may be connected to visa revocation the delegation was led by eu ambassador , filiberto c. sebbregondi .
the dignitaries and mct officials discussed the state of the media in the country , mainly in view of recent developments in which two kiswahili daily newspapers – mwananchi and mtanzania – were suspended for two weeks and 90 days , respectively .
in a statement released following the suspension of the two newspapers , the eu appealed to the government to do the most it could to preserve the freedom of expression and promote the right of information .
other ambassadors in the delegation included olivier chave of switzerland , lennarth hjelmaker of sweden , johnny flento of denmark , sinikka antila of finland , luis guesta of spain , koen adam of belgium and jaap frederiks of the netherlands .
speaking with this paper at his home residence in njari village , uru north ward , in moshi rural district , mzee tesha who was born in 1913 in the village ( about 100 a decade now ) and employed at kncu in 1933 share his experience on kncu and coffee production in kilimanjaro region in general .
on his side , the kncu chairman mr. menard swai said kncu has a very long and impressing history , concluding that , the organization can also be described as the ’ founder ’ of co-operatives in the country .
james lanka is a science and environmental journalist , in kilimajaro last july ’ s replacement of mines minister adama toungaraby jean-claude brou has not lowered the tension between the ivorian authorities and the country ’ s mining companies . ( ... )
although he is now nearly 80 , almost five years too old to run again , henri konan bédié is far from ready to bow out gracefully as leader of the parti démocratique de côte d 'ivoire ( pdci ) , ivory coast 's former single party . ( ... )
" the police arrested the director of netpress on a warrant issued by the prosecutor of the republic and which had as motive ' treason ' , " hit kampala , " a netpress journalist told afp on condition of anonymity . " since monday morning , the anxiety has been palpable in bujumbura for all those imprisoned for his work .
in september 2008 he was arrested on charges of a spokesman for shebab has warned burundi it could be next on the list .
the country 's army said it had stepped up security in response .
building a ’ village ’ in meridian fri oct 11 , 2013 03 : 11 am edt what ’ s open and closed for columbus day in the treasure valley fri oct 11 , 2013 03 : 11 am edt bask in music and dance at the sunvalley jazz festival fri oct 11 , 2013 05 : 11 am edt judge denies bid to reopen highway to big load fri oct 11 , 2013 05 : 11 am edt what ’ s a home stereo system ?
fri oct 11 , 2013 03 : 11 am edt lds church has landmark year on homosexuality tue oct 8 , 2013 3 : 11 pm edt asotin county voter registration needs to be dropped off at auditors office thu oct 10 , 2013 1 : 11 pm edt nampan gets at least 2 years in prison for lewd conduct fri oct 11 , 2013 03 : 11 am edt bands on the blue saturday fri oct 11 , 2013 03 : 11 am edt caldwell man surrenders after standoff fri oct 11 , 2013 03 : 11 am edt chubbuck man charged in video voyeurism case thu oct 10 , 2013 3 : 11 pm edt suspect may be delusional thu oct 10 , 2013 1 : 11 pm edt hundreds pack lposd hearing on arming teachers wed oct 9 , 2013 1 : 11 pm edt salvation army , love inc team up on fundraiser tue oct 8 , 2013 1 : 11 pm edt ui : mixed use key to resurrecting r & e property tue oct 8 , 2013 1 : 11 pm edt there are cries for other caribbean governments to invest in liat – arguably , if they had any confidence in liat ’ s board , they might do so – but it appears they do not !
if that is the case , then the failed board , the business model and the ownership structure has to change .
the problem is that liat is a tax collector for the governments , 50 or 60 % of every ticket goes to governments as taxes and tariffs .
brunton tells us a lot , he confirms that liat is subsidised , so what is the crap coming from gonsalves about cal being subsidised , remember that rubbish , nose in the garbish bin again .
he tells us we must cut back on destinations and routes .
he tells us a lot in that article , i recommend you all read it for yourselves .
the acquisition had been approved by the government , the board had wanted to buy bombardier aircraft .
[ its not sure if brunton negotiated the atr deal and in doing so advised the government accordingly ] .
the best cure for my son ’ s academic malaise ?
a nap year .
agency ’ s decision is in part because of a salmonella outbreak that the pair who won the physics prize for their work on the & ldquo ; god particle & rdquo ; are part of a village who searched .
new ' deadline ' for fixing obamacare glitches seen in mid-november reut.rs / gszenp even an ideal eating plan won ’ t be effective if it ’ s hard to follow or too expensive .
consumers shopping for health policies outside the marketplaces may be confused by mix of plans offered why some veterinarians have a bone to pick with obamacare reduce the scream : music as a pain reliever in kids engarnaibor village resident in the district lameck ole moent claimed they have been giving tip offs to one wildlife officer ( name withheld ) on poaching but failed to do anything about it . the said they suspected him of being an accomplice in the illegal business .
james omilio of kiserian village said the state of poaching in the district was appalling . & ldquo ; sometimes poaching is conducted in broad daylight by people well known in longido township . & rdquo ; & ldquo ; considering the fact that fingers are also pointed at me over the state of poaching in the district by the residents of the surrounding villages , i can not speak anything .
it is better to remain silent , & rdquo ; laizer added . & ldquo ; it is true that longido is one of the areas with an appalling state of poaching .
but we are doing all our best to combat the vice , & rdquo ; he said .
located in the beautiful masai steppe , the lake natron game controlled area is marked by the two volcanoes , mount gelai and lengai .
we do link to other websites we think you may enjoy but we are not responsible for the practices , or content of , those websites .
in addition to order processing needs , we may send an occasional promotional electronic newsletter with offers and information we think may be of interest to you .
if you do not wish to receive these newsletters you may unsubscribe at the bottom of the email .
in today 's workforce finding a job is not as simple as attending a job fair or sending out a killer resume .
learn how to build relationships and advance in your career . © 2013 indexmundi - all rights reserved | the spectrum | thespectrum.com according to ndiyo , gcla would want to have a list of their customers since it is the custodian of all chemical dealers .
to what good is standoff on weighbridge proviso ? na editor he was speaking at a farewell media roundtable questions and answers session in dar es salaam yesterday .
in reference to the first part of his advice which was directed to the government he acknowledged and commended efforts done and initiatives planned but called for fast tracking of the processes involved .
as to the second part , the envoy is of the opinion that tanzanians must embrace the spirit of responsibility towards each other ’ s wellbeing and come to one another ’ s aid beyond family support .
in total these departments inject usd 750million annually into the country and so far all the last three leaderships of the us have consecutively visited the country highlighting its position on the world map politically , economically and socially .
men interested in studying for the priesthood in the diocese of duluth are encouraged to contact a member of the vocation team . friday oct 11 , 2013 according to mbeya regional police commander , diwani athumani , the businessmen did not heed the rc ’ s call for restraint and calmness but instead resolved to violent demonstration and police had to use teargas canisters to disperse the rioters along the tanzania- zambia highway and in the commotion at least 105 persons were arrested mostly in mwanjelwa , soweto and uyole . & ldquo ; the situation is now stabilising but we know there are a few criminal elements seeking to take advantage of the situation , but we are prepared to deal with them and residents can rest assured the situation is under control & hellip ; & rdquo ; the commander reassured mbeya residents .
speaking to the guardian in a telephone interview , tra director of education and taxpayer services richard kayombo clarified that the sale of efds has been tenured to 11 suppliers and tra has no mandate over the sellers .
however , not all businessmen are required to use efds only those who are not vat registered with an annual turnover of 14m / - or above .
what will disappoint spectators to watch the ongoing mainland premiership is not high entry fees but the crude and uncalled for impartiality displayed by the referees ?
the quest to avoid dropping points by trade mark clubs in the likes of yanga , simba and to some extent azam fc has now resulted to poor officiating by the referees who bend rules to favour the teams at a broad daylight !
simba and yanga have been accused of being favoured by some football critics who point out to the choking duopoly of the duo that result in deliberate bending of rules to suit their interests .
" republicans may let one hostage go , but they are keeping a gun to the head of the other , while reserving the right to kidnap the first one again in a few weeks , " an aide to senate leadership told huffpost on background , because the house 's formal legislation has yet to be released .
your support is crucial to our success , so i hope we can count on you to stay involved .
" the huffington post " is a registered trademark of thehuffingtonpost.com , inc .
all rights reserved .
israël a prévenu qu ’ il réagirait si la livraison de missiles russes est tension perceptible au moyen-orient après des révélations qu 'aurait fait le bashar el assad aurait fait ces déclarations dans une interview accordée à al-manar , une chaine de télévision proche du mouvement shiite libanais si cette cargaison de missiles s-300 est livrée à la syrie , israël a prévenu il est difficile pour l ’ instant de se prononcer sur le contenu exact de mais certaines sources indiquent le président syrien a laissé entendre que la première cargaison de missiles a été reçue et que le reste arrivera bientôt .
israël avait déjà mené cette année 3 frappes aériennes contre la syrie .
le président bashar el assad aurait même prévenu dans son interview contre il aurait aussi confirmé que les combattants du hezbollah opèrent près de la frontière libanaise , où les rebelles sont assiégés dans la ville stratégique de d 'après les activistes de l 'opposition et des associations de défense des droits de l 'homme des centaines de civils ont été blessés et vivent dans des c 'est dans ce contexte que le la principale coalition de l 'opposition a annoncé qu 'elle ne prendra pas part à la conférence internationale sur la syrie la conférence devrait se tenir le mois prochain à genève en suisse .
rite of electwelcome to the webpage for the diocese of duluth office of worship .
our hope is that you will find this page a useful source for resources in celebrating the church 's sacred rites and catechesis in liturgy.as we prepare for the lenten season with our catechumens and candidates , the offoce of liturgy announces : so who are you , chris baker , and why are you on my radio station ?
we have to do our best ; we owe this generation ’ s veterans and soldiers that .
sign up for the " healthcare exchange " and apparently you no longer have 4th ammendment rights .
police ad the irs will be able to sift through your personal information looking for any " out of the ordinary " behavior .
jeff overton opens his new pga tour season with a 64 at cordevalle why did leonsis say he does not ’ see any weaknesses ’ with the caps ?
what does shanahan have to do for a contract extension ?
a civilian with a zippo lighter came to the rescue when a gust of wind blew out the olympic flame .
pleasecontactannetteif you plan toattend any of the youth ministers ' meetings.phone 218-724-9111 or e-mail at amerritt @ dioceseduluth.org " the huffington post " is a registered trademark of thehuffingtonpost.com , inc .
all rights reserved.real estate exec who led pilot flying j briefly after jimmy haslam bought browns has new job fri sep 20 , 2013 2 : 23 pm edt cleveland police looking for suspects in shooting death of a man fri sep 6 , 2013 4 : 23 pm edt daycare worker ’ s boyfriend charged in rape case thu oct 10 , 2013 6 : 23 pm edt autoerotic asphyxiation possible in castro death thu oct 10 , 2013 4 : 23 pm edt trotwood fd drums up levy support fri oct 11 , 2013 12 : 23 am edt cricket break-in has deputies searching for culprit fri oct 11 , 2013 06 : 23 am edt swat called to home in preble county fri oct 11 , 2013 04 : 23 am edt fairborn teachers say they ’ ll strike if they have to fri oct 11 , 2013 12 : 23 am edt widow : va drug treatments led to overdose thu oct 10 , 2013 6 : 23 pm edt sexual assault reported at bgsu tue aug 27 , 2013 2 : 23 pm edt france ’ ready to punish ’ syria tue aug 27 , 2013 2 : 23 pm edt see how dairy is provided to those in need at the glen ellyn food pantry .
films like ’ captain phillips ’ represent hollywood ’ s — and audiences ’ — embrace of fact-based dramas .
as ruth bader ginsburg begins her 21st supreme court term , she faces a question : when is it time to leave a lifetime job ? ruth bader ginsburg ’ s life and career he is tired of apologizing for not reciprocating an expensive anniversary gift .
yelling and spanking are out .
so what can parents do ?
harsh verbal discipline is shown to cause depression , behavior issues .
what ’ s left for harried parents ? is it time to put timeouts in the naughty chair ?
for jilted bride and groom , shutdown opens up new doors indian ministry > prayersojibwe prayergrandfather , look at our brokenness.we know that in all creationonly the human familyhas strayed from the sacred way.we know that we are the oneswho are dividedand we are the oneswho must come back togetherto walk in the sacred way.grandfather , sacred one , teach us love , compassion , honorthat we may heal the earthand heal each other.- author unknown the our father " nossinan ishpiminggijigong ebiian.apegishkitchitwawendaming kidijinikasowin.apegishbi-dagwishinomagak kidogimawiwin.enendaman apegishijiwebak , tibishko gijigong me gogaie aking.mijishinam nongomgijigak ninpakwejiganiminanminik eioiangendasso-gijigak.bonigidetawishinamgaie ga-iji-nishkiigoian , eji-bonigidetawangidwagi-iji-nishkiiiangidjig.kego gaieijiwijishigangengagwedibeningewining.midagwenamawishinamdash maianadak.mege-ing. "
in the language of the anishinabewe say " miigwetch " for visiting our page .
la centrafrique lance un mandat d 'arrêt international contre françois bozizé c 'est ce qu 'a annoncé le procureur de la ville de bangui vendredi la république centrafricaine a lancé un mandat d 'arrêt international contre le président déchu françois bozizé , 66 ans , renversé en mars , pour crimes contre l 'humanité et incitation au génocide notamment , a annoncé vendredi le procureur de bangui alain tolmo .
" depuis le 29 mai 2013 , un mandat d 'arrêt international a été émis contre le principal auteur françois bozizé , " a annoncé le procureur .
il a souligné que , parmi les chefs d 'accusation , figuraient notamment des crimes relevant du statut de la cour pénale internationale ( cpi ) , entre autres : crimes est également accusé d 'assassinats , au nombre de 22 actuellement ; des destruction et incendie des maisons d 'habitation au nombre de 3823 pour le " depuis le 2 mai 2013 sur la base des informations factuelles , détaillées , précises , contenues dans les prescriptions écrites du ministre de la justice , des instructions ont été transmises au parquet général , pour ordonner l 'ouverture d 'une enquête contre m. françois bozizé yangouvonda et autres , pour des faits ou du moins pour des chefs d 'accusation multiples et lamentablement graves , " a précisé le magistrat .
d 'autres mandats d 'arrêt internationaux sont en d 'enquête mise en place par les autorités de bangui a rencontré jeudi le ministre centrafricain de la justice arsène sendé et va enquêter sur les violations des droits humains et autres crimes commis pendant le règne de françois bozizé , et après la prise du pouvoir par la coalition rebelle séléka le bozizé , lui-même arrivé au pouvoir par les armes en 2003 , avait été élu président en 2005 et réélu en 2011 au terme d 'un scrutin très critiqué par l 'opposition .
après l 'entrée des rebelles dans bangui , il s 'est réfugié au cameroun .
en avril , m. bozizé avait également demandé l 'ouverture d 'une enquête internationale sur les violences à bangui , où le nouveau pouvoir peine toujours colonial lake victoria navigation map up for review-commission na lusekelo philemon of these iconic features to be highlighted by the map include the ports of kisumu , mwanza and port bell .
jim demint was on the verge of being where every senator longs to be — holding a top position on an influential committee with oversight of industries critical to his state .
get the latest updates about the new health-care law as it begins to take effect .
county to aid levy election fri oct 11 , 2013 01 : 20 am edt new river affected by shutdown fri oct 11 , 2013 01 : 20 am edt photo : gritts farm is a family place fri oct 11 , 2013 01 : 20 am edt moody ’ s affirms parkway authority ’ s bond ratings thu oct 10 , 2013 9 : 20 pm edt ex-officer waved bystanders away before wheeling shooting thu oct 10 , 2013 9 : 20 pm edt doh takes salt trucks out for dry runs fri oct 11 , 2013 01 : 20 am edt an up-and-down day in debt extension talks thu oct 10 , 2013 11 : 20 pm edt mu students killer brought to w.va. to aid in search for her body thu oct 10 , 2013 9 : 20 pm edt center for international students opens at mu thu oct 10 , 2013 11 : 20 pm edt wv native competing for top 16 on the x-factor thu oct 10 , 2013 7 : 20 pm edt former tv journalist rabel considers run for u.s. house thu oct 10 , 2013 7 : 20 pm edt marshall graduate student to run in nyc marathon to end childhood obesity fri oct 11 , 2013 01 : 20 am edt blotter : man faces felonies after pointing gun at police fri oct 11 , 2013 01 : 20 am edt trick-or-treat times for the tri-state fri oct 11 , 2013 01 : 20 am edt atv accident reported in lawrence county ky fri oct 11 , 2013 01 : 20 am edt adhd awareness month in wv thu oct 10 , 2013 9 : 20 pm edt gdc to lay off 80 workers thu oct 10 , 2013 5 : 20 pm edt gdc to layoff 80 workers thu oct 10 , 2013 3 : 20 pm edt — attackers in burundi chopped off the limbs of a 5-year-old albino boy and thoma vyegura , who was not albino , was also killed while trying to protect his liana walked out in protest after mayor of arusha gaudence lyimo accused her of disrespect to the council , a claim that led to the meeting being called off .
lyimo said : & ldquo ; our aim is to work together so that we collectively bring development to our people .
but , we need to respect the rules and regulations . & ldquo ; it doesn ’ t come to mind that you convened a meeting and when councillors want to get correct information on the project you deny them & hellip ; this is disrespect to the councillors , & rdquo ; claimed lyimo and called off the meeting .
however , liana said the project was not on the agenda of the friday meeting . & ldquo ; skytel is not the agenda of the meeting , but there are people who use it to thwart the meeting , & rdquo ; she stated , blaming the mayor for not bothering to call a single finance and economic affairs committee meeting to address the matter .
olasiti ward councillor , ismail katamboi ( ccm ) , said the issue of skytel has been resolved and the director had put it clearly .
gop meeting with obama called ’ very useful ’ thu oct 10 , 2013 7 : 07 pm edt boy found alive in new mexico thu oct 10 , 2013 7 : 07 pm edt high school runner hit by car in bentonville thu oct 10 , 2013 7 : 07 pm edt residents in randolph county want to end county ’ s ’ dry ’ status fri oct 11 , 2013 01 : 07 am edt tedious , yet necessary maintenance process for jonesboro fri oct 11 , 2013 01 : 07 am edt crosswalk safety in the spotlight after 13-year-old hit by suv thu oct 10 , 2013 11 : 07 pm edt car hits child in downtown jonesboro thu oct 10 , 2013 5 : 07 pm edt bank of the ozarks 3q net income up 16 percent to $ 22.4m thu oct 10 , 2013 7 : 07 pm edt mark pryor campaign calls on tom cotton to pull tv ad thu oct 10 , 2013 3 : 07 pm edt return of missing boy a ’ dream ’ for family fri oct 11 , 2013 01 : 07 am edt saturday job fair to hire 100 workers in morrilton thu oct 10 , 2013 11 : 07 pm edt it ’ s time for the arkansas state fair !
fri oct 11 , 2013 03 : 07 am edt family relieved after boy is found ok thu oct 10 , 2013 11 : 07 pm edt morrilton company set to hire 100 workers thu oct 10 , 2013 11 : 07 pm edt update : fbi in new mexico recover 5-year-old boy thu oct 10 , 2013 11 : 07 pm edt usda won ’ t close plants in salmonella outbreak fri oct 11 , 2013 01 : 07 am edt states may use own money to reopen national parks fri oct 11 , 2013 01 : 07 am edt shutdown hinders breweries , slows new brews thu oct 10 , 2013 9 : 07 pm edt boehner offers debt extension ; wh says it ’ s likely ok thu oct 10 , 2013 3 : 07 pm edt mirumbe was prompted to give the clarifications after wananchi complained of police the identity of whistle blowers to criminals placing their lives in danger .
the post ’ s view : house gop has nothing to show for its government shutdown this can be found under web > > web identifiers in the metadata.current settings are : for boehner , surrender may be only way out of shutdown and debt-ceiling mess 32-year-old haverhill man allegedly impregnated 14-year-old girl thu oct 10 , 2013 3 : 15 pm edt man hurt in dow chemical explosion dies fri oct 11 , 2013 03 : 15 am edt a steak in the heart : route 1 icon hilltop to close fri oct 11 , 2013 03 : 15 am edt fbi involved in search for missing nh girl fri oct 11 , 2013 03 : 19 am edt small earthquake felt in nh fri oct 11 , 2013 03 : 19 am edt execs stay on sidelines in race fri oct 11 , 2013 01 : 15 am edt mayor calls for suspected strike instigators to be fired fri oct 11 , 2013 01 : 15 am edt gaming foes say theyre chipping away at support fri oct 11 , 2013 01 : 15 am edt no trial for man in slashing slaying of stepfather thu oct 10 , 2013 7 : 15 pm edt red sox bogaerts , 21 , coming of age in playoffs thu oct 10 , 2013 7 : 15 pm edt brockton day nursery tutoring program funded for second year thu oct 10 , 2013 09 : 15 am edt 70-year-old framingham man busted after picking up 6 pounds of pot fri oct 11 , 2013 01 : 15 am edt on the prowl in natick for a dog park fri oct 11 , 2013 01 : 15 am edt officials : transit center is shot in the arm to downtown framingham fri oct 11 , 2013 01 : 15 am edt seven to be summoned after reported assault in hopkinton fri oct 11 , 2013 01 : 15 am edt braintree police say heroin traffickers arrested fri oct 11 , 2013 03 : 15 am edt the day the mad dogs took over the republican partydaily beastthe last days of the gopthe new republicsee all 350 sourcesrelated republican party press roomtop storiesuse our contentjournalists in troublepress releasesrfe / rl expertscontact us aboutmission statementmanagement / governancehistory / archivesinternshipshavel fellowshipvisit rfe / rlfast facts & faqoff micthe rundown blog archivemore from ozodi.tj дари охирин мадраса дар хатлон баста шуд иттиҳодияи аврупо дигарбора аз украина хост , ки ... 20 тавсия барои " беадабҳо " -и интернетӣ оқои шеърдӯст билохира рафт тошканд масъулияти садамаи қатори тоҷикистонро бар дӯш гирифт radio ozodi ( in tajik ) features & commentary ri lawmaker wants calamari named state appetizer thu feb 28 , 2013 4 : 25 pm est hundreds gather in ri at mass for benedict xvi thu feb 28 , 2013 2 : 25 pm est ri native to lead naval war college in newport thu feb 28 , 2013 10 : 25 am est one person hurt in i-195 rollover fri oct 11 , 2013 04 : 25 am edt taunton intruder may have struck again fri oct 11 , 2013 12 : 25 am edt middletown petting zoo restricts hours after abuse , theft thu oct 10 , 2013 6 : 25 pm edt power restored at ric thu oct 10 , 2013 6 : 25 pm edt 1 killed in rollover crash in providence thu oct 10 , 2013 12 : 25 pm edt rand paul & # 8217 ; s claim that there is ‘ no reason for us to default ’ terry mcauliffe & # 8217 ; s claim that ken cuccinelli wanted to make it harder for moms to get divorces joint consultative meeting of au , un securty councils opens in addis ababa juba university lecturers threaten to strike as gov 't averts the situation hunches , ’ trail angels ’ key in hiker ’ s rescue fri oct 11 , 2013 04 : 29 am edt biggest dispute in mukilteo mayoral race is the job fri oct 11 , 2013 04 : 29 am edt county doles out funds for city parks fri oct 11 , 2013 04 : 29 am edt who ’ s in favor of i-90 tolls ?
hardly anyone fri oct 11 , 2013 02 : 29 am edt washington ’ s most wanted fri oct 11 , 2013 02 : 29 am edt advertise with us fri oct 11 , 2013 02 : 29 am edt centurylink high school athlete of the week fri oct 11 , 2013 12 : 29 am edt check out our favorite costumes for kids !
thu oct 10 , 2013 10 : 29 pm edt woman too drunk to get out of car calls 911 thu oct 10 , 2013 6 : 29 pm edt children on way to school in wenatchee find body thu oct 10 , 2013 6 : 29 pm edt eagles lodge donates to vamc in shorty ’ s memory thu oct 10 , 2013 10 : 29 pm edt geno ’ s reopens with new owners , new look thu oct 10 , 2013 10 : 29 pm edt redmond man pleads not guilty in son ’ s heroin od thu oct 10 , 2013 6 : 29 pm edt jblm soldier remembered for his demeanor , devotion to family fri oct 11 , 2013 12 : 29 am edt goodsell joins council in fircrest fri oct 11 , 2013 12 : 29 am edt a crucial presidential election this june , and one thing is clear : it is up to for the east african community as we usher in 2010 challenge for the other eac members is that some of them cannot be said to have provision on proxy voting — voting on behalf of burundians in the diaspora — laws are yet to provide for the regulatory mechanisms on the activities of assassinating the winner .
in 1961 , prince louis rwagasore of uprona won the the then ruling uprona lost to the frodebu of melchior ndadaye , who was murdered there was a general sigh of relief when outgoing president domitien ndayizaye needs access to the ports of dar es salaam and mombasa on the indian ocean coast training to political parties , civil society , and other stakeholders in how to the provisions on proxy voting — the voting on behalf of burundians in the most of this heat is reflected back into the atmosphere by the snow-covered ice sheet and the greater expanse of sea ice .
set special mechanism to control tax exemptions , govt told na aisia rweyemamu kisesa mp luhaga mpina ( ccm ) has been particularly vocal against haphazard tax exemptions provisions .
last march , the mp blamed the government for its failure to reduce the exemptions .
send us your mug and we 'll show it to the world on good day arkansas .
other benefits have been the harmonization of standards and participation of citizens – especially the youth – in the eac integration process .
the cemetery ’ s decision to remove mementos is insensitive and cruel .
my gop buddies don ’ t understand that the shutdown is hurting families .
congress is giving us speeches and inaction instead of government .
all the dysfunction responsible for this absurd impasse in congress ?
that ’ s been imported to washington .
david alpert : the trouble with ditching the gas taxrobert mccartney : mcdonnell ’ s road tax evasionsthe post ’ s view : bold and paltry the acts of the apostles provides an historic framework for understanding the rest of the new testament .
paul ’ s letters in particular come alive in a new way when they are read within the context of the acts narrative .
masafa mapya ya ' satellite ' kuanzia tareha 14 novemba , 2009 kwa vituo vifuatavyo : youth lead the way in manado , indonesia for a citywide evangelistic campaign & ldquo ; we all know that there is a case against such a law filed since 2009 but todate the court has yet to assign judges to hear it & hellip ; we are concerned that the government has continued to use such a suppressive law and at the same time the government has failed to table in the national assembly two bills of right to information for many years . & rdquo ; tef call is based on a number of arguments but most importantly , it has cited the newspapers act of 1976 which the government has used , pointing out that it was oppressive .
the statement said it was the same oppressive law that was used to ban mwanahalisi .
the coalition said the news on the banning of the two tabloids shocked the organisations in that the government has interfered with freedom of information which is a key pillar in good governance .
in a related development , the committee to protect journalists ( cpj ) recently condemned the decision by the government to suspend the two kiswahili dailies on accusations of sedition .
rdc : hrw dénonce les atrocités du m23 avec son allié rwandais c ’ est un rapport accablant pour le rwanda que l ’ ong qui défend les droits atrocités que les rebelles du m23 continuent de perpétrer à l ’ est de la république démocratique du congo ( rdc ) , apporte également de nouvelles preuves indiquant l ’ implication large de troupes rwandaises dans ce conflit aux côtés du m23 . & bdquo ; non seulement le rwanda permet au m23 de se procurer des recrues et de l ’ équipement sur son territoire , mais aussi les militaires rwandais continuent d ’ apporter un soutien direct à ce groupe qui commet des exactions « , déclare le directeur de la division afrique de hrw .
daniel bekele . & bdquo ; ce soutien renforce un groupe armé qui est responsable de nombreux meurtres , viols et autres crimes les rebelles du m23 ont exécuté sommairement au moins 44 personnes et violé au moins 61 femmes et filles depuis mars 2013 dans l ’ est de la république démocratique du congo ( rdc ) « affirme ce rapport publié ce 22 juillet .
hrw annonce avoir recueilli ces informations suite à plus de 100 entretiens réalisés depuis le mois de mars 2013 , comprenant des témoignages d ’ anciens combattants du m23 qui ont déserté ce mouvement entre fin mars et juillet ainsi que des civils vivant près de la frontière rwando-congolaise , dont nombreux sont hrw affirme que les combattants du m23 , mènent particulièrement une chasse à l ’ homme contre les populations de l ’ ethnie hutue dans les territoires qu ’ ils contrôlent . & bdquo ; les 25 et 26 avril , des combattants du m23 ont tué 15 civils d ’ ethnie hutue dans plusieurs villages du groupement de busanza dans le territoire de rutshuru , et au moins six autres à la mi-juin , apparemment pour & bdquo ; punir « les villageois pour leur prétendue collaboration avec des milices hutues le rapport fait également état de nombreux arrestations et enlèvements qui ont eu lieu au cours des dernières semaines dans le territoire de rutshuru par des combattants du m23 .
les victimes sont des dizaines de civils , la plupart d ’ ethnie hutue .
les personnes enlevées quand elles ne sont pas exécutées , sont & bdquo ; un ancien policier du m23 qui a déserté ce mouvement a rapporté à hrw qu ’ il avait participé à des enquêtes sur des meurtres de civils .
il a affirmé qu ’ avant chaque enquête , un commandant de haut rang du m23 , innocent kanyana lui disait : & bdquo ; c ’ est toi qui mènera l ’ enquête .
et tu diras que ce sont des bandits de la pendant l ’ attaque de la nuit du 25 avril , un groupe de combattants du m23 a traversé les villages de ruvumbura , kirambo , nyamagana et shinda , tuant et pillant sur leur passage .
une mère de trois enfants , âgée de 43 ans , a dit à hrw : & bdquo ; quand ils ont commencé à tuer des gens , nous avons fui dans la brousse .
mon mari est retourné chercher nos biens et ils l ’ ont tué .
ils lui ont tiré une balle dans la tête « . & bdquo ; dans la région de busanza , les combattants ont demandé de l ’ argent à une femme de 33 ans , quand elle a dit qu ’ elle n ’ en avait pas , ils ont entaillé son épaule d ’ un coup de machette et ont frappé son fils de 11 ans à d ’ autres cas d ’ exécutions sommaires par le m23 sont rapportés par hrw à l ’ instar de celui d ’ un homme de 62 ans qui a eu lieu fin mai à ntamugenga car ce dernier refusait de remettre ses fils au m23 ; l ’ assassinat le 15 mai d ’ un chauffeur de moto près de kiwanja parce qu ’ il refusait de leur donner de l ’ argent ; à la mi-juin , l ’ exécution par plusieurs balles dans la poitrine d ’ un plusieurs autres cas d ’ exécutions sommaires par le m23 , sur de nouvelles recrues qui tentaient de s ’ échapper ont également été rapportés .
le cas le plus interpellant est celui d ’ un déserteur connu sous le nom de tupac : & bdquo ; le 21 juin , les combattants du m23 ont capturé un des leurs , un congolais nommé & bdquo ; tupac « , alors qu ’ il essayait de s ’ enfuir près de kabuhanga .
ils l ’ ont ramené au camp militaire de kamahoro , où le commandant a ordonné à ses troupes de se mettre en formation et de l ’ abattre pour décourager d ’ autres désertions .
ils ont tué tupac de deux balles dans la poitrine tirées à bout portant « .
un déserteur du m23 a rapporté à hrw qu ’ il avait été forcé , avec d ’ autres recrues , d ’ enterrer tupac concernant les viols commis par le m23 , hrw affirme avoir documenté 61 cas de viol de femmes ou de filles par des combattants du m23 entre mars et début juillet , et affirme néanmoins qu ’ en raison de la marque d ’ infamie qui s ’ attache au viol et de la peur de représailles , le nombre réel des victimes est beaucoup plus élevé . & bdquo ; fréquemment , les violeurs avertissaient leurs victimes qu ’ elles seraient tuées si elles parlaient du viol ou si elles cherchaient à recevoir des & bdquo ; beaucoup des victimes de viol étaient dans leurs champs ou entrain de ramasser du bois .
les combattants du m23 ont accusé certaines d ’ entre elles d ’ être les & bdquo ; épouses « de combattants des fdlr .
la plupart des viols ont été commis à proximité des positions du m23 et certaines victimes ont reconnu leurs agresseurs comme étant des combattants du m23 qu ’ elles avaient vus auparavant « malgré le silence des victimes , le rapport de hrw mentionne plusieurs cas à l ’ instar de celui d ’ une fillette de 12 ans violée le 5 juillet par quatre combattants du m23 alors qu ’ elle cherchait de l ’ eau près de son village dans le territoire de rutshuru ; ou encore le cas d ’ un combattant du m23 qui le 15 avril 2013 près de bunagana a accosté une jeune femme de 18 ans et lui a tiré une balle dans la jambe parce qu ’ elle a refusé d ’ avoir une relation sexuelle avec des recrutements forcés au rwanda et en rdc impliquant même des jeunes selon hrw , les habitants de la région et des anciens rebelles ayant déserté ont fait état d ’ opérations récentes de recrutement forcé d ’ hommes et de garçons au rwanda et à l ’ est de la rdc pour le compte de m23 .
parmi les hommes recrutés au rwanda par le m23 , le rapport de hrw affirme que figurent de nombreux jeunes garçons majeurs mais aussi quelques mineurs .
il y des fdlr , dont la plupart avaient été intégrés dans la force de réserve de l ’ armée rwandaise , ainsi que des civils rwandais . & bdquo ; un jeune rwandais âgé de 15 ans a raconté à human rights watch que lui et trois autres jeunes hommes et garçons avaient reçu la promesse d ’ emplois en tant que gardiens de vaches en rd congo , mais qu ’ une fois arrivés dans ce pays , ils avaient été forcés de rejoindre le m23 .
ils y ont suivi une formation militaire dispensée par des officiers rwandais et on les a avertis qu ’ ils seraient abattus s ’ ils tentaient & bdquo ; de récents déserteurs du m23 interrogés par human rights watch ont décrit des arrivées fréquentes parfois hebdomadaires de militaires et de recrues en provenance du rwanda .
parfois il s ’ agissait de rotations , des hommes nouveaux en remplaçant d ’ autres qui étaient retournés au rwanda « poursuit le rapport .
hrw assure avoir documenté des dizaines de cas de recrutement de force par le m23 depuis mars , y compris d ’ enfants .
ces recrutements semblent même avoir augmenté au cours des derniers mois , depuis que le m23 a perdu plusieurs hommes ( morts et déserteurs ) , quand la faction du m23 dirigée par bosco ntaganda a subi une défaite en mars face à celle commandée par sultani makenga .
les cas de sept enfants rwandais , âgés de 15 , 16 et 17 ans , qui ont été recrutés de force au rwanda en mars et en avril , puis forcés de se battre dans les rangs du m23 , avant de parvenir à déserter ont également été recensés .
hrw affirme avoir reçu des informations concernant d ’ autres enfants recrutés au rwanda au cours de ces derniers mois et qui , eux , n ’ ont pas pu s ’ enfuir .
des recrutements forcés seraient également intenses en rdc , surtout dans les zones sous contrôle du m23 .
ainsi , & bdquo ; des commandants du m23 ont forcé des chefs coutumiers dans les zones qu ’ ils contrôlent à suivre une formation militaire et idéologique et à fournir des recrues au m23 .
le m23 considère ces chefs locaux comme constituant une & bdquo ; force de réserve « , sur laquelle ils veulent pouvoir néanmoins , tous les récents déserteurs du m23 interrogés par hrw ont déclaré qu ’ au cours des derniers mois , le gros de nouvelles recrues provient de plus en de nombreux bataillons de l ’ armes rwandaise se battent aujourd ’ hui aux côtés du m23 , et ce sont mêmes les officiers rwandais qui dirigent les opérations .
un ancien officier du m23 a indiqué à hrw que les femmes des officiers rwandais venaient souvent leur rendre visite dans les zones tenues par le m23 en rd congo , apportant des lettres de membres de leur famille restés au rwanda .
des habitants de la région et des rebelles déserteurs ont déclaré que & bdquo ; des mouvements réguliers du rwanda vers la rd congo d ’ hommes en uniforme de l ’ armée rwandaise et l ’ approvisionnement du m23 en munitions , en vivres et en autres par ailleurs , tous les déserteurs du m23 interrogés par hrw ont affirmé que la présence de militaires , d ’ officiers et de formateurs rwandais s ’ était poursuivie pendant toute la durée de leur engagement au sein du mouvement , et que de nouveaux renforts souvent déjà munis de divers équipements , notamment militaires continuaient d ’ arriver du rwanda au cours des derniers mois .
hrw mouvements d ’ hommes armés du rwanda vers l ’ est du congo pendant les jours ayant un déserteur congolais a rapporté à hrw , qu ’ au sein du m23 , les rwandais étaient favorisés . & bdquo ; on leur donne des uniformes immédiatement , des couvertures et des bottes .
ils sont gâtés .
quand ils parlent , c ’ est comme si ils étaient les patrons du mouvement .
ils me traitaient de vaut rien et disaient : & bdquo ; tu n ’ as aucune valeur dans ton pays « ils m ’ insultaient avec des mots qu ’ on ne peut prononcer trop fort .
ils disaient & bdquo ; vous les congolais , vous avez peut être fait des études mais vous n ’ avez jamais combattu au front . « « selon hrw , trois anciens officiers du m23 , proches de la hiérarchie du mouvement ont rapporté que les plus hauts commandants militaires du m23 supérieurs de l ’ armée rwandaise .
parfois , des officiers rwandais venaient à tshanzu ou à rumangabo pour rencontrer les chefs du m23 , parfois ce sont les dirigeants du m23 qui se rendaient au rwanda pour des réunions .
les informations circulant ces derniers jours nous apprennent même que plusieurs officiers rwandais auraient été tués d ’ autres blessés dans les combats de ces derniers jours , le général rwandais ibingira compterait parmi les blessés & bdquo ; au cours des 17 dernières années , l ’ armée rwandaise a à maintes reprises envoyé des troupes dans l ’ est de la rd congo et soutenu des forces agissant pour son compte et qui se sont rendues responsables d ’ exactions et de crimes de guerre « , a souligné daniel bekele directeur de la division afrique à hrw . & bdquo ; comme dans le passé , le rwanda nie qu ’ il soutient le m23 , mais les faits sur le terrain contredisent ces démentis . « poursuit-il .
par ailleurs , hrw affirme que , toutes les demandes d ’ entretien adressées à des responsables gouvernementaux et accusé depuis le début des hostilités à l ’ est du congo de ne pas avoir condamné ouvertement le rwanda , les états-unis ont adopté ce mardi le 23 juillet , un ton très sévère à l ’ encontre de kigali , le sommant de retirer ses troupes de la rdc et de cesser son soutien aux rebelles du m23 .
cet appel qui intervient au lendemain de la publication du rapport de hrw épinglant le rwanda pour son implication dans la crise congolaise à côté du m23 , est une première pour les etats-unis .
en effet washington s ’ était , jusque-là , contenté d ’ appeler tous les pays soutenant le m23 à cesser leur appui , sans mentionner les pays en question . & bdquo ; nous appelons le rwanda à cesser immédiatement tout soutien au mouvement du m23 , à retirer son personnel militaire de l ’ est de la rdc et à respecter ses engagements « , a déclaré ce mardi à la presse la porte-parole du département jennifer psaki a affirmé qu ’ il y avait un & bdquo ; ensemble de preuves crédibles « reliant les principaux dirigeants rwandais aux rebelles du m23 qui sèment le pour rappel , dans un rapport de l ’ onu le ministre rwandais de la défense , james kabarebe , est cité comme étant le véritable chef du m23. civilian in the latest in a string of incidents involving the army , a spokesman soldiers approached the entrance of the camp in ngagara , " in the capital bujumbura .
" one of them pounced on the sentinel , yanked his rifle away and shot a week ago and accused of attempting to destabilise the country 's institutions styling by lee holmes ( 9 / 30 / 2013 7 : 25 : 45 pm ) welcome !
welcome to the web site for the diocese of duluth .
we hope you will visit often to stay abreast of the news and information for the catholic church in northeastern minnesota .
one scientist has likened the work to ' trying to record the new york philharmonic from the other side of a concrete wall , while a guy is using a jackhammer on the wall and someone is playing with the volume control . '
cold air tends to be clear and free of moisture , which can distort light .
former cia analyst ray mcgovern was the fourth whistleblower to meet with snowden in moscow .
a u.s. ddefault is inevitable defaulting , the american way a new gold standard we need an inside outsider where is today & # 8217 ; s bob dole ?
where are the shutdown & # 8217 ; s heroes ?
how to break a deadlock a solid if awkward farewell to the singing qb of & # 8216 ; glee & # 8217 ; with one act of & # 8216 ; parsifal , & # 8217 ; nso demonstrates power of wagner is there a way out of the political standoff that is paralyzing government and endangering the global economy ?
at the moment , it hardly seems so .
but we see a glimmer of hope in suggestions from rep. paul ryan ( r-wis . ) .
the post ’ s view : the house gop has nothing to show for its shutdown antidepressants help treat fibromyalgia fda oks fibromyalgia drug savella naltrexone may ease fibromyalgia symptoms retrovirus linked to chronic fatigue syndrome short bursts of activity ease fibromyalgia it feels like it all went by very fast .
one moment , michael robin , greer shephard and i were sitting at a long conference table at tnt in burbank , " pitching " an idea to michael wright and lillah mccarthy for a new series ; the next , i am writing a few stray thoughts about its finale .
now we are near the end , and the payment for daring to love grows higher .
the purpose of a typical bond hearing is solely for a judge to secure a criminal defendant 's presence at future court proceedings .
so why did the defense essentially play all of their cards in round two of what 's going to be a long battle ?
ron artest and jennifer hudson : why mainstream media traps them in " the hood " see the faqs for more info and help , or contact us.oops !
page not found .
the university of dar es salaam ( udsm ) is set to officially launch a confucius institute ( ci ) to teach chinese language to learners at the university and improve the general knowledge of chinese culture in the country .
prof mgaya informed newsmakers that the establishment of the institute , a first in dar es salaam and second in the country after the university of dodoma will provide professional services for government , civil society , diplomats and the general public .
edsall says star wideout is " probably not " 100 percent healthy .
with len gone , cleare set to step up at center " going through what i had to go through last year was great for me , it strengthened me as a person , as a man , " wells says .
boston red sox beat tampa bay rays , advance to alcs just a year after the red sox finished last in the al east , the team eliminated tampa bay in four games to advance to the alcs .
alex len ’ s departure to the nba could open things up for the terps .
crossing mighty kilombero to see new ' mosquito-perfume ' factory na correspondent this was revealed yesterday by tct ’ s executive secretary richard rugimbana who attended the ambassadors ’ meeting held in dar es salaam recently .
hunt is on for school vandal thu oct 10 , 2013 11 : 26 am edt run over cop and ask her to smoke a joint wed oct 9 , 2013 11 : 26 am edt joe frugal : buy someone a drink at starbucks today , get a free coffee fri oct 11 , 2013 05 : 26 am edt north ga pet sitter arrested for police standoff thu oct 10 , 2013 5 : 26 pm edt man accused of offering to smoke pot with a cop after hitting her with his bike thu oct 10 , 2013 1 : 26 pm edt kiwanis satellite club to meet on wednesdays thu oct 10 , 2013 5 : 26 pm edt ribbon cut at center for latino studies thu oct 10 , 2013 5 : 26 pm edt breakfast club to be block party headliner thu oct 10 , 2013 5 : 26 pm edt dscc announces closings due to fall break and system maintenance thu oct 10 , 2013 3 : 26 pm edt miss jeannie ’ s ride for a cure is saturday thu oct 10 , 2013 09 : 26 am edt walkers and runners alike show up in support of march of dimes 2013 thu oct 10 , 2013 09 : 26 am edt forecasts say less snow , but who knows ?
thu oct 10 , 2013 11 : 26 am edt boo !
at the zoo kicks off 27th year thu oct 10 , 2013 11 : 26 pm edt knoxville , blount co. discuss ways to end homelessness thu sep 5 , 2013 01 : 26 am edt ut restricts fundraising on game days thu sep 5 , 2013 01 : 26 am edt ’ boo !
at the zoo ’ now underway fri oct 11 , 2013 01 : 26 am edt blount mayor asks if county can reopen smokies to tourists fri oct 4 , 2013 5 : 26 pm edt finalists for cfo of the year : large nonprofit organization thu oct 10 , 2013 3 : 26 pm edt crosstown rehab wins tax freeze fri oct 11 , 2013 01 : 26 am edt financial adjustments under way at the university of memphis thu oct 10 , 2013 9 : 26 pm edt freebie friday !
free coffee , hay maze , queso fri oct 11 , 2013 05 : 26 am edt operator of nashville zoo train drunk on job fri oct 11 , 2013 05 : 26 am edt hargett warns of familiar scam under new name fri oct 11 , 2013 05 : 26 am edt son learns to forgive mother who had father killed fri oct 11 , 2013 01 : 26 am edt job fair is tuesday in southaven sat oct 5 , 2013 5 : 26 pm edt new orleans man identified as driver in crash fri oct 4 , 2013 11 : 26 pm edt study reveals new information for diabetics thu oct 10 , 2013 11 : 26 pm edt tax break extension approved for sears crosstown thu oct 10 , 2013 9 : 26 pm edt shutdown / debt talks , but no resolution yet fri oct 11 , 2013 05 : 26 am edt gray ’ s run comes to end fri oct 11 , 2013 05 : 26 am edt bass , berry & sims ’ todd rolapp has an addiction ... to netflix former titans cheerleader accused of touching boy due in court thu oct 10 , 2013 11 : 26 pm edt bernier leads maple leafs over preds 4-0 fri oct 11 , 2013 01 : 26 am edt i want to believe tommy robinson has seen the error in his ways , but i 'm finding it difficult to do robinson thinks that by partnering with the quilliam foundation , who also label practically everyone in the muslim community who do not share their particular views as ' extremists ' , he has developed a new ingenious strategy to mainstream his cause .
if the somewhat fawning response of the media is to go by , he may well be on to something .
it was striking how he was allowed to continuously make references to the dangers of islamic extremism in broad brush stokes , without challenge or definition , smearing an entire community , conjuring up an image of a sinister ' enemy within ' .
head of the violence and extremism programme and the centre for the analysis of social media at demos wtf ? why was woman forced to give birth on hospital lawn ? la razón de méxico aбsolute bonkeяs two russian businessmen in epic £ 130,000 mayfair bar bill drink off lgbtgay boxer to fight for title in rainbow shorts and pink glovesgetty watchangry elk gives chaseheather leighmore comedyfunny tweets of the week ..
he ain 't nothin ' but a hound dog ..
10 tips for using a penis beaker the house gop has nothing to show for its government shutdown he urged the government to pursue other avenues to redress instances of what it perceives as misrepresentation of its work by the press including dialogue and constant feedback and the use of the mediation services of mct .
the council appeals to media stakeholders and the public to support the councils efforts to lobby for the repeal of the bad laws that suppress freedom of expression and of the media as well as access to information .
it is also important for the public to ensure its right to information , freedom of expression and the media was enshrined and guaranteed in the anticipated new constitution .
he said the defenders want the government to immediately lift the ban on all newspapers so as to provide freedom of information to the public .
he said the government should revoke and amend laws that undermine freedom of information as suggested by media stakeholders in the country .
the demands follow the government ’ s decision to ban two kiswahili daily the publications , ’ mwananchi ’ and ’ mtanzania , ’ for two weeks and three months respectively , at the weekend accusing them of publishing seditious information .
indian ministry > upcoming datesyear of the canonization of st. kateri special celebrations : - in the indian culture 's spirit of " welcoming " everyone is welcome to all events . - bermuda is on its way to introducing a tax on oil imported via the docks of the historic town of st george 's .
the tax will be used to raise funds to protect the town 's unesco world heritage site status .
it was approved by bermuda 's mps on october 03 . ( 10 / 10 / 2013 12 : 26 : 41 am ) october 9 , 2013 over a spirited tinge of hate and dread , the right wing crusade to disrupt the affordable care act commonly known as ’ obamacare ’ drags on in washington .
the plot of ’ perception control ’ by demagogues and corporations are in full gear .
washington now languishes in a state of crisis in the battle for ...
october 4 , 2013 there will be a lot of rubbish in washington over the next few days .
and , that rubbish is not only the garbage that is steadily piling up in the nation ’ s capital because of the government ’ s shut down .
it is also the quality of the republican party ’ s argument for refusing to pass a budget that would ...
tom toles for octoberthe latest from the washington post ’ s editorial cartoonist .
coworker suspected in death of clydes dishwasher thu oct 10 , 2013 9 : 29 pm edt bye bye blackberry ?
thu oct 10 , 2013 7 : 29 pm edt cuccinelli fails to reach voters as he attacks mcauliffe , rolls out tax hits thu oct 10 , 2013 11 : 29 pm edt wilder endorses mcauliffe for virginia governor thu oct 10 , 2013 9 : 29 pm edt advertise with us — newschannel 8 fri apr 12 , 2013 5 : 29 pm edt about us and talent bios fri nov 9 , 2012 09 : 29 am est let ’ s talk live tue oct 30 , 2012 09 : 29 am edt the pet show tue oct 30 , 2012 09 : 29 am edt stormwatch 7 weather tue oct 30 , 2012 09 : 29 am edt 2 men wanted in stabbing death of northwest dc man thu oct 10 , 2013 11 : 29 pm edt dog daze on quiet capitol hill thu oct 10 , 2013 9 : 29 pm edt man in custody after refusing to give up his knife at dc metro thu oct 10 , 2013 7 : 29 pm edt suspect in slayings of siblings arrested in nc thu oct 10 , 2013 7 : 29 pm edt grandchildren say the darnedest things mon oct 7 , 2013 1 : 16 pm edt hollandale in limbo sun sep 29 , 2013 11 : 16 am edt the little credit card on the prairie is a liar sat sep 28 , 2013 7 : 16 pm edt should there be a shield law for journalists ?
sat sep 28 , 2013 7 : 16 pm edt bagging a bear wed sep 25 , 2013 1 : 16 pm edt atewologun : riverland leading the way in online education fri oct 11 , 2013 03 : 16 am edt wadena students question the justices thu oct 10 , 2013 11 : 16 pm edt minn. lawmakers try for handle on synthetic drugs thu oct 10 , 2013 11 : 16 pm edt lake superior zoo ’ s new display : plumpest pumpkin fri oct 11 , 2013 03 : 16 am edt shutdown hinders blue plate ’ s brewpub plans thu oct 10 , 2013 5 : 16 pm edt tour tcf ceo bill cooper ’ s new house thu oct 10 , 2013 5 : 16 pm edt kenwood residents voice swlrt concerns to met council fri oct 11 , 2013 01 : 16 am edt chalk up aclu victory in free-speech case thu oct 10 , 2013 5 : 16 pm edt gov. dayton to hunt pheasants in madelia on opening weekend thu oct 10 , 2013 1 : 16 pm edt do children who are precocious at drawing grow up to be artists ?
thu oct 10 , 2013 1 : 16 pm edt recycling : so easy that cavemen did it , scientists say fri oct 11 , 2013 05 : 16 am edt timberwolves top bucks 98-89 in preseason fri oct 11 , 2013 01 : 16 am edt shutdown : minn. breweries may fizz out if stalemate lingers fri oct 11 , 2013 01 : 16 am edt father : ’ heroin got its claws in her and wouldn ’ t let go ’ thu oct 10 , 2013 11 : 16 pm edt cisse in senegal squad for world cup playoff after ban papiss cisse is in the senegal squad for the world cup play-off first leg against ivory coast but demba ba is left out . ( 10 / 2 / 2013 9 : 02 : 23 am ) the firm has also constructed a number of new dams as well as rehabilitating old ones in the country within the period of its existence .
tom toles on the budget battle : & thinsp ; collection of cartoons on the federal budget and economy .
perkins : cruz is de facto leader of republican partycnn - by peter hambytony perkins : ted cruz is “ de facto leader ” of the gopsalonsee all 5 sourcesrelated tony perkins home | about | search | site map | blog | discussburundi réalités le 7 mai 2013 , rsf a adressé une lettre ouverte au président pierre nkurunziza pour lui faire part de son inquiétude quant à la liberté de l ’ information au burundi et pour lui demander de ne pas promulguer la loi sur les médias adoptée par le parlement .
voici le texte de la lettre : au lendemain de la célébration de la journée mondiale de la liberté de la presse , reporters sans frontières vous demande solennellement de bien vouloir ne pas promulguer la loi sur les médias votée en avril par le parlement .
adopté au début du mois par l ’ assemblée nationale , puis le 19 avril par le sénat , ce texte fait grandement débat , d ’ autant plus qu ’ il intervient dans un climat difficile pour la presse burundaise , déjà marquée par la longue incarcération de hassan ruvakuki et plusieurs agressions graves de journalistes .
il ne faudrait pas interpréter , monsieur le président , les nombreuses protestations de la presse , des associations et des institutions internationales comme des réflexes de défiance à l ’ encontre de l ’ action gouvernementale en en restreignant les sujets accessibles aux journalistes et en augmentant lourdement les peines et amendes , le projet de loi limite considérablement la capacité d ’ investigation des médias et fait planer le risque d ’ une hausse de a deux ans des prochaines échéances électorales nationales , son adoption aurait donc des conséquences désastreuses pour le pluralisme , la transparence , c ’ est pourquoi , en cette période aussi grave que décisive , nous nous en en faisant barrage à l ’ entrée en vigueur de ce texte , vous apporteriez la preuve de votre attachement à la liberté de l ’ information .
si au contraire vous promulguiez cette loi , vous enverriez un signal terriblement négatif à vos notre organisation reste convaincue que vous saurez faire preuve de la hauteur de vue nécessaire pour laisser les médias jouer pleinement leur rôle , si je vous remercie par avance de l ’ attention que vous voulez bien accorder à notre requête et je vous prie d ’ agréer , monsieur le président , l ’ assurance de ma the new look of iosthe previous version of iosios 7ios 7ios 7imessage on ios 7email on ios 7camera on ios 7phone on ios 7ios 7 homescreenweather app on ios 7control center on ios 7control center google 's gmail app for iosios 7 amelia _ mcskittles _ risher : i really don & # 039 ; t like the iso new look , not for every time i come to articles about the ios 7 update i constantly have to look at my phones and ipad and wonder what the heck people are talking about .
my battery life is the same from ios 6 on all of my devices and it has not glitched even once .
o admit 7 is different from 6 but i like the change .
i don ; t see why people are so upset .
everything runs smoothly for me , my family , and my friends .
really ?
really ?
seriously , that is utter brilliance it it works .
the part that irritates me about it is that it is soooo hard to see the writing now .
it 's like grey print on white background .
grrrrrrr very glitchy and my password / username doesnt work for my apps and itunes !
i am protesting by not using my apps or paying for any movies / music .
tax havens are countries and territories , mostly in the caribbean , that offer financial benefits to foreign investors .
the two main pillars of tax havens are a low ( or nonexistent ) tax rate and secrecy ; that is to say , information on the identity of the client and on his or her activities may not be disclosed to foreign authorities .
using tax havens ’ services is considered by non-tax haven countries , such as the united states , to be tax evasion .
the aim of potential us tax reform is to cut the loopholes that are allowing such tax avoidance .
the investigations led to the proposal in congress of the cut unjustified tax loopholes act , which was signed into law earlier this year .
in the first section of the bill , nine points are listed to curb the use of tax havens , most of which seek to target and penalize us firms that exploit loopholes such as the one explained above .
the first point stipulates : & ldquo ; penalize offshore financial institutions and jurisdictions that impede us tax enforcement & rdquo ; .
if washington is to truly enforce this provision , measures clearly must then be taken to curb the illegal activities in the united states ’ own territories .
in florida , opposition by the state and snags in signing up on the web the tv column : alec baldwin ’ s puzzling nat geo channel gig take a look at woods ' tweets on the matter below .
neptune closed for columbus day thu oct 10 , 2013 4 : 20 pm edt palin to appear with lonegan at new egypt speedway fri oct 11 , 2013 12 : 20 am edt roebling museum appoints new leader fri oct 11 , 2013 04 : 20 am edt washington twp. students get to the core of the problem fri oct 11 , 2013 04 : 20 am edt readington wants to expand its acquisition of solberg property thu oct 10 , 2013 10 : 20 pm edt politi : joe girardi embraces the challenge of restoring the yankees ' greatness wed oct 9 , 2013 10 : 20 pm edt police : fort lee man high on pcp led cops on chase , screamed racial epithets mon oct 7 , 2013 10 : 20 am edt german groom forgets bride at gas station fri oct 11 , 2013 06 : 20 am edt judge rejects christie ’ s bid to delay oct .
21 start of gay marriage in n.j. fri oct 11 , 2013 12 : 20 am edt buono says her ’ vision ’ for the middle class lacks support of key democratic leaders fri oct 11 , 2013 12 : 20 am edt pakistani girl shot by taliban to speak in nyc thu oct 10 , 2013 08 : 20 am edt fighting diabetes a ’ walk in the park ’ for 10-year-old oakland girl thu oct 10 , 2013 02 : 20 am edt nypd undercover officer in biker melee unmasked wed oct 9 , 2013 8 : 20 pm edt restaurant review : choripan rodizio in hackensack fri oct 11 , 2013 02 : 20 am edt ridgewood backs off on sewer fee hike fri oct 11 , 2013 02 : 20 am edt nyc council oks $ 3 billion development near mets stadium for ’ valley of ashes ’ in queens fri oct 11 , 2013 02 : 20 am edt name of man killed by train in dover released by nj transit thu oct 10 , 2013 6 : 20 pm edt randolph man accused of robbing people at atm , market thu oct 10 , 2013 6 : 20 pm edt cocaine , weapons , 7 lbs of pot seized from rockaway twp. man thu oct 10 , 2013 2 : 20 pm edt booker : lonegan ’ too extreme ’ for nj thu oct 10 , 2013 2 : 20 pm edt notre dame secondary to be put to the test thu oct 10 , 2013 10 : 20 pm edt the age-old question returns : vick or nick ?
thu oct 10 , 2013 8 : 20 pm edt food for thought : let them eat thu oct 3 , 2013 12 : 20 am edt re-enactors bring a touch of the civil war to burlington mansion sat sep 28 , 2013 8 : 20 pm edt the road to forgiveness thu sep 26 , 2013 12 : 20 am edt so she ’ s got to say goodbye to the summer sun sep 22 , 2013 08 : 20 am edt bbc newssee realtime coveragetaliban leader ' appears confident and triumphal 'bbc news- & lrm ; 17 hours ago & lrm ; pakistani taliban leader hakimullah mehsud appears " confident " and " triumphal " in an interview with the bbc , according to a pakistani analyst and author.related hakimullah mehsud lhrc raps kagasheki orders of ' shoot to kill ' na queenter mawinda on friday , in remarks concerning an escalating problem of the slaughter of protected wildlife , the minister for natural resource and tourism , ambassador khamis kagasheki urged game wardens to shoot at poachers seen in the act of illegal hunting or having killed game , to control the upsurge in elephant poaching .
kagasheki directed law enforcers to use any available means including shooting to kill to prevent poachers from escaping , and to deter those in the racket of devastating the country ’ s elephant population , saying the trend was now out of control .
altostratus clouds are blue-gray or whitish in color .
they are thinner and higher than stratus clouds and are formed by water and ice particles .
after years of haggling over the sudden cancellation of a contract between togo and the compagnie energie electrique du togo ( ceet ) on one side and gdf-suez and its affiliate elyo ( ... )
undaunted by his failure to win control of the mineral terminal in the port of abidjan operated by belgium ’ s sea invest ( ami ) , frank timis has begun talks with the authorities in togo ( ... )
to meet an expected surge in demand from 184 mw in 2012 to 487 mw in 2003 , the government is trying to woo investors .
but the country ’ s shaky financial situation is scaring them away . ( ... )
the international arm of socar , the national oil company in azerbaijan , has lent cash to britain ’ s gasoil to finance its gas projects . ( ... )
the togolese government which received the financial and technical offers of three bidders for the country ’ s carbonated ( ... )
the latest government reshuffle on sept .
17 saw dammipi noupokou regain his portfolio ( ... )
the abduction of ali zeidan from his hotel room illustrates the spread of lawlessness since gaddafi ’ s ouster .
even by western standards , china ’ s top public schools are often astounding .
here ’ s a look at one of the poshest .
exxonmobil has bought them from the homeowners and has already torn one of them down .
exxon says the manufacturer of the pegasus pipeline is to blame for the spill .
as exxon and local crews continue their cleanup efforts in the neighborhoods impacted by last month 's oil spill , homeowners are beginning the process of figuring out what 's next .
in a reminder of the soviet era , judges institutionalize one protester and deny bail to others .
the flame falters on the first day of a 123-day relay across russia .
video of camilo scoring an unbelievable goal for the vancouver whitecaps against the portland timbers in an mls match at bc place .
dozens , not thousands , show up for dc trucker protestfox newsso far , the ' ride for the constitution ' is a bustwashington timessee all 230 sourcesrelated interstate 495 toronto starsee realtime coverageonline flu tracking not a substitute for shutdown cdcmashable1 hour agowritten bymeg wagneras cooler weather settles in and the season for sniffles and sore throats looms , the centers for disease control and prevention won 't be tracking the pattern of this year 's flu.shutdown leaves cdc handcuffed as flu season gets underwaynature world newsolder people may benefit from high dosage flu vaccinefox newssee all 380 sourcesrelated : influenza vaccine the man touted as responsible for putting mesquite on the map and changing the face of the city through his marketing has chosen to retire from mesquite gaming as chief operating officer ....
les pays africains commercent très peu entre eux en comparaison aux pays asiatiques ou encore européens .
ce qui empêche l ’ accroissement de la compétitivité du continent sur le marché international , selon la banque ( de notre envoyée spéciale au sommet de la bad à marrakech ) les pays africains n ’ échangent pas suffisamment entre eux .
un constat fait par les experts de la banque africaine de développement ( bad ) , qui se sont exprimés sur la question lors d ’ une conférence à l ’ occasion des assemblées annuelles de l ’ organisation , à marrakech .
le commerce inter-africain n ’ est que de 15 & percnt sur tout le continent .
ce qui constitue un taux très faible comparé aux autres pays du monde .
pourquoi est ce que les pays du continent commercent si les raisons sont multiples , selon les experts de la bad .
les pays africains sont confrontés au manque de capitaux , d ’ infrastructures et à la mauvaise gouvernance .
sans compter les taxes douanières qui coûtent très chers .
tous ces problèmes de logistiques empêchent le commerce inter-africain de se développer . & bdquo ; le manque de compétence des ressources humaines est aussi un sérieux frein à la fluidité des échanges alors qu ’ une entreprise a besoin d ’ une main d ’ oeuvre qualifiée « , selon le dr. abbi mamo kedir , consultant en économie au sein de l ’ organisation school of management university of lelcester en international .
pourtant des politiques de soutien existent dans le continent pour les promouvoir , selon les experts de la bad .
mais elles ne sont pas concrétisées .
quelles solutions face à ce constat alarmant ?
d ’ après eux , il faut commencer par réformer les politiques d ’ investissements pour promouvoir les le maroc , qui est devenu un carrefour d ’ investissement dans la région en quelques années , a fourni des efforts allant en ce sens , selon youssef rouissi , directeur général adjoint de la banque attijariwafa .
d ’ après lui , son pays s ’ intéresse de près au & bdquo ; marché africain .
nous disposons de cinq banques dans plusieurs pays d ’ afrique .
de plus , les millions de consommateurs africains nous ont fait comprendre qu ’ on pouvait récupérer le marché de distribution de toutefois , même si le maroc effectue des investissements dans les pays du continent , 60 & percnt de son économie dépend encore de l ’ europe , notamment de la france raison de plus pour laquelle , l ’ afrique doit impérativement s ’ unir si elle veut améliorer sa compétitivité sur le marché mondial , estime pour sa part le ministre ougandais de la justice , kahinda otafiire .
selon lui , & bdquo ; jusqu ’ à présent , l ’ afrique a toujours exporté des matières premières .
il faut qu ’ elle diversifie son marché , qu ’ elle construise par exemples ses propres voitures .
« le ministre va même plus loin : & bdquo ; l ’ afrique du sud qui a connu un essor économique très important ces dernières années peut atteindre un meilleur niveau de développement .
mais malheureusement elle ne s ’ est pas suffisamment imposée sur le marché africain alors qu ’ elle a le potentiel pour le faire « .
preuve , selon lui , & bdquo ; qu ’ on ne pourra pas parler de croissance en afrique tant qu ’ on aura seulement , l ’ intégration régionale est loin d ’ être aisée à mettre en place .
des organisations telles que la communauté économiques des etats de l ’ afrique de l ’ ouest ( cedeao ) ou la communauté économique des etats d ’ afrique centrale ( ceeac ) existent .
mais plusieurs dissensions entravent à leur bon fonctionnement .
il y a aussi la barrière de la langue et de la culture entre les pays de la zone francophone et anglophone qui ne facilitent pas le développement de jpmorgan ’ s current woes may be the least of its problems the gop is down , obama is up -- and so is obamacare .
four-year-old orion qurbonaliev is lucky to be alive .
just last february , the little boy was lying comatose in the tuberculosis ward of a hospital in southern tajikistan .
the bacteria had spread to his spine and paralyzed the right side of his body .
he was severely dehydrated and malnourished .
china to build library at udsm worth usd16m na sylivester domasa what are the main forms or shapes of the aurora ? · assistance from azerbaijan makes up the bulk of the region ’ s outgoing aid in 2012 tajikistan “ facts for life : nutrition and growth ” is now available in the tajik language to improve feeding practices of young children gibraltar betting it can become a hub for u.s. online gamblers gibraltarian and spanish unions draw up manifesto to end harassment of workers ebonie johnson cooper is looking to redefine the modern philanthropist .
in 2012 , njvc and its employees raised $ 50,000 for its national philanthropic partner , uso .
govt to motivate investors by addressing bureaucracy na the guardian reporter industries and trade minister , dr abdallah kigoda has said that the government is in the process of coming up with a strategy of curbing bureaucracy and corruption in the sector so as to encourage investors and increase competition .
the striking priceoctober 3ways to play an end to budget crisis by clicking on the name of the option you will receive the current quote for the underlying instrument , not the option .
reading the judgement in the first case judge samwel karua of the high court mbeya zone sentenced to death rashidi nyerere who was charged with killing his uncle saidi nyerere .
one of the witnesses who is a councillor said after committing the crime the accused went to him and informed him about the incident and his intention to run away to avoid being arrested .
kids around the worldexplaining the fiscal cliff to kids10 cool things about jeffersongoing where the money is madeelection night : color by numbersexplaining the electionexplaining debates to kidsa show for two audiencesthe children of the titanic riding a bike becoming popular way to get to school a former senior kiwi cop in jail in the cook islands has described how grisly investigations led him to drugs . ( 9 / 21 / 2013 3 : 34 : 04 pm ) the purpose of this office is to ensure the smooth and effective operation of the pastoral center officesinservice to the priests , deacons and laity of the diocese .
one of the skeletons identified by researchers working at the sandby fort site off the swedish coast .
is being uneducated part of the job qualifications for hp reporters ?
the amazing part is that this site has remained intact and untouched for so long .
it is rare to see such a snapshot of a moment in history .
it makes one wonder who the invaders were and why they didn 't occupy the fort or burn down the house .
i wonder if there are any other such dwellings in the area ?
the importance of these discoveries of past significant events and human behaviors is the lesson it provides for our present and our future as a species .
if we think such attrocities cannot or do not happen in modern times , look at recent events in syria .
a modern , and very highly cutured nation has annihilated thousands of their own people , and did not pause to rob or bury their bodies .
the worst part is experiencing how one dies in the " previous " life ..
are you really the dark knight or are you just the i 'm completely in the dark knight ?
jeez , doesn 't anyone have a sense of humor anymore ?
batterybrakesbrakes / inspectionbrakes / warning signschanging the oilengine diagnosisfilters and spark plugshoses and beltsrotating tiressteeringtools neededtransmissionstune-upswindshield wiperswinterization the jenners pose with daughters kylie , left , and kendall at the premiere of " the emperor 's new groove " at the el capitan theater in hollywood .
the girls are now teenagers .
bruce and kris jenner attend a taping of fox ’ s " the x factor " in hollywood .
“ sony expects its suppliers , including foxconn , to fully comprehend and comply with our supplier code of conduct . we are in communication with foxconn and are investigating the matter , " sony added in an email to the huffington post .
are you going to mention that xbox360 , ps3. wii , wii u and xbox1 as well as the ps4 are or were manufactured at foxconn ? whichchange : i bet you microsoft & # 039 ; s scroogle team has absolutely nothing to i 'm working on a wireless version , but so far no luck .
not buying any next gen consoles , and have never wanted to or will ever buy an iphone , and do all i can to avoid buying anything made in china , that it is about as hard as trying to avoid high fructose corn syrup in american food products , but it can be done .
two accidents close memorial bridge and part of beltway .
no signs of trucker ’ s protest so far will truckers ride for the constitution really tie up traffic on the beltway friday morning ?
let us know if you spot one .
two rides won ’ t fly with many bus users to dulles airport they don ’ t want to ride to the end of the new silver line , then board an airport bus for rest of their trip .
crime is up on metro as thefts of electronic devices continue .
truckers won ’ t shut down the beltway on friday , but it doesn ’ t mean congress is off the hook .
how long did the first transcontinental flight to california take ?
earl conlon says a threat by thousands of truckers to tie up traffic on the beltway was part of a stunt to draw attention to washington 's dysfunctional politicians .
he was one of two metro employees seriously injured in an accident in a red line tunnel near the union station .
an accident is snarling the inner loop of the capital beltway in tysons .
robert is dr. gridlock , the post ’ s commuting columnist and an authority on all things roads and rails .
nursing for nutrition : why we must invest in health workers to end maternal and child malnutrition world le directeur général de la fao sollicite le soutien du secteur privé au fonds fiduciaire contre la faim “ ce que le secteur privé accomplit à l ’ échelle locale pour combattre la faim peut rapidement s ’ étendre au reste du monde ” 10 octobre 2013 , rome – “ nombre des sociétés qui sont ici aujourd ’ hui sont présentes dans de nombreux pays .
cela est important car ce que vous faites localement contre la faim peut rapidement devenir une action planétaire ” , a déclaré le directeur général de la fao josé graziano da silva au cours d ’ une réunion des partenariats avec le secteur privé qui s ’ est tenue aujourd ’ hui au siège .
world gestión del estrés en trabajadores humanitarios - guía de buenas prácticas la ayuda humanitaria ha pasado de una ayuda a pequeña escala mediante iniciativas privadas , misioneros , beneficencias , comunidades y fundaciones , a una amplia variedad de programas organizados por grandes y pequeñas ongs ( organizaciones no gubernamentales ) , gobiernos nacionales y organizaciones transnacionales como las naciones unidas .
las organizaciones humanitarias de hoy en día están más profesionalizadas y mejor equipadas y preparadas que hace años .
world gestion du stress chez les travailleurs humanitaires - guide de bonnes pratiques l ’ aide humanitaire , qui était auparavant prodiguée à moindre échelle par des initiatives privées , des missionnaires , des associations caritatives , des communautés et des fondations , est à présent fournie par un large éventail de programmes gérés par des ong ( organisations non gouvernementales ) nationales et internationales de différentes tailles et des organismes transnationaux comme les nations unies .
this is a summary of what was said by the unhcr spokesperson at today ’ s palais des nations press briefing in geneva .
world the state of the poor : where are the poor , where is extreme poverty harder to end , and what is the current profile of the world ’ s poor ?
world + 2 others à l ’ occasion de la journée internationale de la fille , l ’ unicef souligne l ’ importance de l ’ innovation pour l ’ éducation new york / kinshasa , 11 octobre 2013 – pour célébrer la seconde journée internationale de la fille , l ’ unicef a mis en lumière aujourd ’ hui le pouvoir de l ’ innovation , capable de scolariser davantage de filles et d ’ améliorer la qualité de l ’ apprentissage pour tous les enfants .
world encuesta mundial onu explica por qué mueren tantas personas con discapacidad en los desastres ginebra , suiza ; 10 octubre de 2013 - los resultados de la primera encuesta mundial de las naciones unidas sobre discapacidad y desastres , muestra por qué mueren o resultan heridas tantas personas con discapacidad en los desastres .
se calcula que el 15 % de la población mundial vive con algún tipo de discapacidad .
world une enquête mondiale des nations unies explique pourquoi tant de personnes vivant avec un handicap meurent lors de catastrophes 10 october 2013 , geneva – les résultats de la première enquête mondiale des nations unies des personnes vivant avec un handicap sur la manière dont ils font face aux catastrophes mets en évidence les raisons pour lesquels ils meurent ou sont blessés en nombre disproportionné lors d ’ une catastrophe .
world guía operativa para la respuesta directa de salud en desastres las recomendaciones incluidas en esta guía están orientadas a la respuesta inmediata en salud en la fase de emergencia de un desastre y que suele estar comprendida en las dos primeras semanas. confuseddemocrat : < p > < b > let me get this straight : < / b > < / p > < p > < br > < / p > < p > the gop wants to why not tax the mega rich and corporate profits more ?
is that solution not feasible or do you just want to " stick it " to the people more and more ?
the problem is he says what he means ... its just baggers are so bereft of intellect they can 't understand him ...
he has to speak with them .
only way to get things rolling again .
gotta put aside the drama , overcome the childishness on the other side and be the bigger man. bama continues to say " i won 't negotiate " until you give me what i want ! ! well , bummer that 's not negotiating ! ! that 's having another tantrum and stomping your feet like the spoiled narcissist you are ! ! meanwhile , you then said you would " consider ' a short extension , now it was offered , and you 're still stomping your feet ! ! at what point do you grow up and do the will of " we the people " and not me , the dictator ! ! ! asb1258 : bama continues to say " i won & # 039 ; t negotiate " until you give never , because he has his legions of lemmings with their hand out but you 're right . this is not a democracy . it 's a polyarchy and the bagger party is helping to keep it that way .
map and charts : marriages where one spouse is u.s. born and one is foreign-born office of social apostolateplease click here for information on jrlc day on the hill , to be heldfebruary 17 , 2011at rivercenter in st. paul .
no plan to impose president 's rule in andhra pradesh : sushilkumar shindezee news - by ajith vijay kumartelangana fallout : andhra pradesh on the edge , curfew in vizianagaram to ... ibnliveopinion : telangana and lessons for creating new stateslivemintsee all 1,155 sourcesrelated telangana studies on the ice sheet and its contributionto world sea level rise are vital to our understanding of global change .
locked up in its 4 km thick ice sheet is a record of past climate for the last 500,000 years .
fitbit force , $ 129.95 , is available for preorder on fitbit 's website and will be in stores in three to four weeks .
fitbit forcefitbit flex and fitbit forcefitbit flex ( l ) and fitbit forcenike + fuelband & fitbit forcenike + fuelband ( r ) and fitbit forcejawbone up and fitbit forcejawbone up ( l ) and fitbit forceactivity trackersfrom left to right : nike + fuelband ( $ 149 ) , jawbone up ( $ 129.99 ) , fitbit force ( $ 129.95 ) and fitbit flex ( $ 99.95 ) .fitbit forcefitbit force with usb charging cable.fitbit force fitbit had better improve its quality if it wants to stay in the game . their previous " latest and greatest " the fitbit flex has a high negative rating on amazon.com , 24 % of the reviewers rated the flex 2 stars and less .
andré bourgeot : & bdquo ; l 'opération serval risque de se transformer en guérilla « andré bourgeot , anthropologue , directeur de recherche émérite au cnrs et le président françois hollande est arrivé le 2 février à sévaré pour une visite éclair au mali au cours de laquelle il appellera les pays africains à prendre le relais de la france auprès de l 'armée malienne , après trois semaines " je vais au mali ( ... ) pour dire à nos soldats tout notre soutien , tous nos encouragements , toute notre fierté , ( ... ) pour permettre que les africains viennent le plus vite possible nous rejoindre et leur dire que nous avons besoin slateafrique - l ’ intervention des troupes françaises au mali est-elle de andré bourgeot - rapidement ?
certes pas !
l 'intervention militaire française a d 'une part stoppé l 'avancée des groupes armés djihadistes qui ont tenté de prendre sévaré , où il y a un aéroport international , et d 'autre part libéré l 'objectif est bien de rétablir la paix qui ne sera effective que lors de la reconquête totale de l 'intégrité du territoire national : cela demandera du temps d 'autant que , pour l 'heure , se sont essentiellement les militaires français qui sont en première ligne , avec une armée malienne affaiblie et dont la chaîne de slateafrique - est-ce que l 'enthousiasme des populations que vous avez observé au mali , par rapport à cette intervention , va durer ?
a.b. -globalement , les réactions sont favorables , en effet .
les populations du nord libérées du joug et de la terreur djihadiste reprennent vie et expriment a bamako , des vendeurs de petits drapeaux tricolores s 'activent sur les trottoirs de la capitale et reprennent le commerce informel , tricolore cette fois : les petits drapeaux qui flottent sont même achetés .
pour autant , est-ce maures et arabes ) manifeste son soulagement et sa joie .
ce qui ne veut pas dire que les groupes armés djihadistes ne disposeront pas , le cas échéant , de relais indépendantiste et laïc , connaît un sérieux déclin , depuis quelques semaines .
il s 'est fait d 'abord bouté hors de gao par le mujao ( mouvement pour l 'unicité du jihad en afrique de l 'ouest ) , puis de ménaka toujours par ce même il tente de rebondir en proposant ses services à l 'armée française , arguant du fait suivant : être des combattants aguerris et de bons connaisseurs de la qui ne renvoie à aucun fondement géographique et encore moins historique. sillonné par les pasteurs nomades maures .
berabich représente une superficie de 380 kilomètres carrés environ .
il souffre d 'un important déficit de légitimité & bdquo ; il est peu probable que la reconquête du nord soit rapide « a.b -tout dépend de ce que vous entendez par & bdquo ; nord « ?
si vous y intégrez toute la partie saharienne ( celle des montagnes , des grottes des dunes , des canyons ) ce qui est convenable et conforme au territoire national du mali , alors il est fort peu probable que la reconquête du nord soit rapide .
s 'emparer des villes de tombouctou , gao , kidal est à la portée des militaires .
mais la partie saharienne , stricto sensu sera une & bdquo ; autre paire de manches « : la slateafrique - l 'armée malienne est-elle capable de jouer un rôle dans la que j 'ai évoquées plus haut .
elle est profondément désorganisée voire divisée , mal équipée .
est-elle fermement motivée ?
récemment les militaires maliens ne recevaient même pas la nourriture nécessaire à la satisfaction de leurs besoins slateafrique - le capitaine sanogo conserve-t-il une grande influence dans le a.b. -il brille actuellement par son mutisme .
on dit qu 'il est au front .
l 'intervention militaire française a contribué à reléguer son influence à la périphérie des enjeux politiques , mais il peut ne pas avoir dit son dernier mot .
cette intervention a conforté la position du président par intérim , dioncounda traoré , au moment où des manifestants à bamako réclamaient à cor et à le pouvoir tricéphale , avant le coup de force perpétré par le capitaine sanogo lors de la destitution de l 'ex-premier ministre cheikh modibo diarra , est devenu bicéphale , puis , pour l ’ heure monocéphale , compte tenu du fait que diango cissoko , actuel premier ministre n 'a pas d 'ambition politique , contrairement à son prédécesseur et se positionne comme grand commis de l 'etat .
slateafrique - la france pourra-t-elle longtemps rester seule en première ligne ?
ne risque-t-elle pas d ’ apparaître comme un pays qui mène une opération a.b. -c 'est déjà fait .
une partie de la presse algérienne l 'accuse de nigériens ) d 'impérialisme .
quoi qu 'il en soit , y a-t-il des etats qui tous les etats défendent des intérêts politiques et économiques .
le mali recèle de prometteuses ressources extractives ( pétrole et gaz dans le site de taoudenni à cheval sur la mauritanie , le mali et l 'algérie , de l 'uranium dans manganèse , du phosphate ...
qui serait insensible à ces richesses ?
d 'autant que d 'autres puissances montantes , telle que la chine est réceptive à ces données .
enfin , le niger voisin recèle , lui , des richesses minières monnaie sonnante : areva est une multinationale française et la france a un fort besoin en uranium : slateafrique - l ’ algérie peut-elle accepter une présence de la france à long éradiquer les groupes djihadistes , l 'algérie peu en être satisfaite .
mais ces & bdquo ; fous de dieu « vont se réfugier où ?
dans les pays riverains , donc potentiellement en algérie .
même si celle-ci a décidé de fermer ses frontières .
comment peut-on & bdquo ; fermer « 1.400 km de frontières communes à des groupes expérimentés dans les activités criminelles , les trafics de toute nature ( cocaïne , cannabis , armes , êtres humains , etc . ) qui ont des relais , ou des complicités dans l 'ensemble de l 'espace sahélo-saharien et qui de surcroît flirtent slateafrique - les troupes ouest-africaines sont elles à même de prendre le a.b. -non , je ne le pense pas : il faudra du temps , de l 'organisation , de l 'argent et que le septentrion soit sécurisé : encore du temps ...
slateafrique - les troupes de certains pays africains , notamment le nigeria , sont réputées pour leur grande brutalité avec les populations civiles .
leur entrée dans le conflit ne risque-t-elle pas d ’ entraîner une radicalisation d ’ une a.b. -l 'intervention militaire vise à modifier les rapports de force militaires mais elle ne résout aucun problème politique et elle en pose même ou en posera d 'autres , probablement dans un laps de temps pas très éloigné .
si slateafrique - s ’ ils quittent leurs fiefs du nord-mali , les djihadistes ne risquent-ils pas de se développer des bases dans tous les pays de la région ?
a.b. -oui , ils vont se replier avec armes et bagages nécessaires , par petits groupes dans certains pays riverains où il existe déjà des & bdquo ; structures d 'accueil « .
il n 'est pas impossible que ces déplacements prennent une forme plus citadine et se manifestent donc dans des villes où des intérêts français sont bien connus et slateafrique - des pays comme le sénégal ou le burkina faso ne risquent-ils a.b. -sans doute moins que le niger et la mauritanie , mais le & bdquo ; moins « dans le slateafrique - si les troupes françaises et africaines parviennent à reprendre le contrôle du nord , sera-t-il possible d ’ organiser rapidement des a.b. -que faut-il entendre par contrôle du nord ?
quid des populations déplacées estimées à environ 200.000 et réfugiées dont le chiffre de 450.000 est je n 'imagine pas que des élections puissent se tenir au vu d 'une seule reconquête militaire des régions du nord du mali .
sauf si l 'on veut des élections bradées , faussement démocratiques qui ne feront que reposer de bien plus graves problèmes : la démocratie , si elle a un sens , ne souffre pas de bricolage ou de conception artisanale , laxiste , et frivole du politique : les jorge benitez : are you a standout math student ? & # 8216 ; i & # 8217 ; ll hire you tomorrow & # 8217 ; barnyard nursery draws a crowd at rapides parish fair fri oct 11 , 2013 05 : 14 am edt nsu professor works to reduce sids with cribs for kids project fri oct 11 , 2013 05 : 14 am edt max time for dog attack wed oct 9 , 2013 07 : 14 am edt avenue of flags roadwork starts wed oct 9 , 2013 07 : 14 am edt ’ this is our history thu oct 10 , 2013 3 : 14 pm edt bring on gumbo wed oct 9 , 2013 3 : 14 pm edt breakfast for supper ?
wed oct 9 , 2013 3 : 14 pm edt her cool idea is fit for queens sun oct 6 , 2013 07 : 14 am edt restructured race on teche sun oct 6 , 2013 07 : 14 am edt shooting in treme leaves one man wounded fri oct 11 , 2013 01 : 14 am edt fait à la main sign-up deadline is today fri oct 11 , 2013 05 : 14 am edt raising backyard chickens a hot topic in shreveport fri oct 11 , 2013 03 : 14 am edt jeb breithaupt : 7 ways to avoid falling for a home-improvement scam fri oct 11 , 2013 03 : 14 am edt sunscreen / lipbalm : antarctica is the driest and sunniest continent on earth binoculars : you may not get close enough to pet the wildlife police arrest 21 for dui wed oct 9 , 2013 06 : 11 am edt hamakua macadamia nut co. gets mention on npr ’ s ’ morning edition ’ thu oct 10 , 2013 10 : 11 pm edt kapolei medical office building on the market thu oct 10 , 2013 10 : 11 pm edt search is on for father of baby hope thu oct 10 , 2013 08 : 11 am edt a low-key mayor reflecting the diversity of los angeles tue oct 8 , 2013 08 : 11 am edt film commissioner job a balancing act thu oct 10 , 2013 2 : 11 pm edt anxiety as stimulus hike in food stamps set to end thu oct 10 , 2013 6 : 11 pm edt police investigating waiakea center burglary thu oct 10 , 2013 6 : 11 pm edt the weeknight vegetarian flashes back to ’ sundays at moosewood ’ with a bowl of african peanut soup .
the list includes a tweaked version of the world ’ s best lasagna and a family meal from the six o ’ clock scramble .
first bite : ron tanaka ’ s menu is sophisticated yet approachable , with a decor to match .
see how critic tom sietsema rated d.c. restaurants in the going out guide .
nusa dua ( bali ) : prime minister datuk seri najib razak updated millions of his twitter followers on the discussion he had with john key by retweeting a tweet made by the new zealand prime minister ( @ johnkeypm ) at a conference here yesterday .
read more ... ( 10 / 9 / 2013 4 : 24 : 46 am ) nusa dua ( bali ) : perdana menteri , datuk seri najib razak di laman twitter beliau sempat berkongsi status yang di muat naik oleh perdana menteri new zealand , john key ( @ johnkeypm ) dalam satu persidangan semalam .
read more ... ( 10 / 9 / 2013 4 : 56 : 57 am ) letter : on the 15th anniversary of the incarceration of the cuban five in the usa antigua-barbuda minister applauds mou between cxc and regional telecoms company bujumbura - a burundian court opened the trial friday of a " we argued that the arrest of our client was arbitrary and we called for his temporary release .
the court adjourned for consultation , " on july 12 , a day after the kampala bombings , he wrote that on the opposite end of the dining spectrum are the likes of le pressoir and le cottage , some of the finer french restaurants in the area .
when it comes to service , food preparation and quality , and wine pairings , a night in one of these dining rooms makes it clear why st martin is widely considered the fine dining capital of the caribbean .
they do it right !
do you have a feel good story ?
tell us about it below .
" mystical body mystical voice " - catechesis programassension press : " a biblical walk through the mass " " praying the mass " by jeffrey pinyan nhc to sell 18,000 houses from monday na devota mwachang 'a this was revealed at the weekend in dar es salaam by nhc director general nehemiah mchechu at the launch of a sales campaign of affordable houses under the project : & ldquo ; my house-my life & rdquo ; he said , the beneficiaries of the projects will be residents of movomero ( morogoro ) , mkinga ( tanga ) , lindi , mkuzo ( ruvuma ) , bombambili ( geita ) , mlole ( kigoma ) , ilembo ( katavi ) , kongwa ( dodoma ) , unyankumi ( singida ) , kibada ( dar es salaam ) and mtwara .
other beneficiaries of & ldquo ; my house-my life & rdquo ; project will be sumbawanga ( rukwa ) , mowongozo and kibada ( dar es salaam ) in second phase , safaricity ( mateves ) , mondoli and longido ( arusha ) , uyui and nzega ( tabora ) , manyara , buswelu ( mwanza ) , chalinze ( coast ) , kyerwa and muleba ( kagera ) , iwambi and mbarali ( mbeya ) and masasi ( mtwara ) .
if you are interested in becoming more involved in the mission of cchd orlearning more , please contact patrice at 218-724-9111 or pcritchley @ dioceseduluth.org.
site map | terms of use | privacy statement | copyright & trademark notice | eeoburundi réalités m23 , les raisons d ’ une fissure et de la reddition de bosco ntaganda le 23 a éclaté en deux groupes qui se sont même affronté à l ’ arme lourde .
coup de théâtre ou réalité ?
des commentaires sont allés dans tous les sens .
pour ceux qui maitrisent la réalité de l ’ est du congo , tout ceci était né de cendres du cndp de laurent nkunda , le m23 avait dans son sein deux tendances antagonistes qui ont fini par étaler au grand public leurs c ’ est depuis 2009 que le clivage s ’ est établit au sein de ce qui va devenir le mécontent de la distance que laurent nkunda , alors chef du cndp , commençait à avoir vis-à-vis des hommes du pouvoir rwandais , kigali , de connivence avec kinshasa , va décider de le retirer de la scène pour passer la main à bosco ntaganda .
question de continuer à avoir la main mise sur toutes les transactions mis au froid au rwanda , laurent nkunda bénéficiait toujours de l ’ estime de nombreux combattants du cndp du nombre duquel se trouvait le colonel makenga .
soutenu par kigali et kinshasa , bosco ntaganda va se faire nommer général fardc avec plein pouvoir dans la région du kivu .
au nom de la paix , le pouvoir de ceci jusqu ’ au début de 2013 quand une forte pression internationale pesait sur kinshasa exigeant l ’ arrestation de bosco ntaganda et son transfèrement a la cpi .
mis au parfum de l ’ éventualité de son arrestation , bosco ntaganda va décider de faire défection des fardc et retourner dans le maquis .
l ’ occasion faisant le larron , les autres ex-combattants cndp intégrés dans le fardc vont trouver l ’ opportunité de revendiquer des insuffisances dans la mise en œuvre des bosco étant indexé par la cpi , le dévolu a été jeté sur sultani makenga pour diriger cette nouvelle insurrection .
le choix de sultani makenga rencontrait les attentes de kigali et kinshasa pour qui bosco ntaganda devenait très encombrant .
malgré cela , ce général rebelle continuait à avoir de l ’ emprise sur certains le 20 novembre 2012 , quand la ville de goma tombe entre les mains de m23 , des avis étaient très divergents quant à la manière de gérer cette victoire dans les la direction politique du m23 confiée à jean marie runiga ne parlait pas le même langage avec le chef militaire sultani makenga .
pour runiga et bosco ntaganda il fallait maintenir la pression sur la ville de goma et exiger des préalables à remplir par le gouvernement de kinshasa à défaut de continuer à pendant que la direction politique s ’ époumoner à faire prévaloir certains préalables , contre toute attente , sultani makenga va se rendre à kampala et décider unilatéralement de négocier avec kinshasa sans condition .
c ’ était comme une douche froide pour runiga , bosco ntaganda et les hommes de leur obédience , une pilule amère difficile à avaler .
a l ’ époque , certaines langues faisaient croire même que makenga a été soudoyé par le pouvoir de kinshasa pour accepter pendant les négociations de kampala , le m23 a été déclaré force négative par la ainsi la marge de manœuvre de cette rébellion .
de quoi inquiéter bosco ntaganda recherché par la cpi et jean marie runiga sous sanction de la communauté internationale .
la scission devenait donc impérieuse .
ce que vont tenter de faire le tandem runiga et bosco en ouvrant des hostilités contre les hommes de la tendance makenga .
mais , c ’ était sans compter avec kinshasa et kigali qui tenaient à se débarrasser de bosco ntaganda , ce témoin gênant .
les deux capitales ne voulaient plus de cet homme qui en savait déjà trop sur des magouilles de leurs pouvoirs respectifs à l ’ est de la rdc .
l ’ ordre a été donné à makenga de traquer bosco , le capturer et le déférer devant la justice .
tout toutes les tentatives de bosco ntaganda pour se retrancher vers le masisi ont été stoppées net par les hommes de makenga .
il ne lui restait qu ’ un plus choix : ntaganda se livre à la cpi , kinshasa et kigali court-circuités sentant venir le danger , aussitôt arrivé au rwanda , bosco ntaganda a vite fait de se rendre à l ’ ambassade des usa à kigali pour demander asile et son extradition à la cpi .
en agissant ainsi , cet ancien chef d ’ etat major du cndp a fait preuve d ’ une méfiance totale envers les pouvoirs de kigali et de kinshasa qu ’ il a longtemps servi .
l ’ homme redoutait même le pire pour sa vie .
la volonté de bosco ntaganda de se rendre à la cpi ne date pas d ’ aujourd ’ hui .
nos sources renseignent que ce général avait , en vain , demander au pouvoir de kinshasa de le dédommager pour le travail lui rendu avant de l ’ envoyer à la cpi .
un million de dollars , c ’ est la somme que ce général rebelle exigeait à kinshasa kinshasa , pour des raisons qui lui sont propres , n ’ avait jamais prêté oreille comme laurent nkunda , bosco ntaganda n ’ a pas été extradé en rdc par le rwanda .
c ’ est toute la mesure des bons rapports caractérisant le rwanda et la rdc .
l ’ histoire a tendance à toujours se répéter à l ’ est de la rdc s ’ agissant de sa situation sécuritaire .
depuis l ’ avènement de l ’ afdl en 1997 , cette partie du congo vit dans une insécurité quasi permanente .
transformée en sanctuaire des groupes armés , tant nationaux qu ’ étrangers , la partie orientale de la rdc ne rassure plus ses habitants confrontés , de manière permanente , à diverses ici , des rebellions naissent toujours des cendres d ’ autres .
c ’ est à croire qu ’ il y aurait une certaine programmation des malheurs qui s ’ abattent sur les populations de l ’ est de la rdc .
les tireurs des ficelles s ’ organiseraient pour maintenir la déstabilisation de la partie orientale du congo .
dans leurs tactiques , ils s ’ appuient sur des conflits identitaires qui minent cette contrée .
en 1996 , tout est partie d ’ une révolte de banyamulenge ( tusi ) qui avait fini par se muer en une rébellion dénommée afdl .
en 1998 , une brouille entre le pouvoir kabila père et ses mentors tutsi de l ’ afdl a donné naissance à la quand il fallait former le gouvernement de transition en 2004 , le rdc / goma est allé à kinshasa laissant derrière lui une troupe de réserve chapeauté par jules mutebusi et laurent nkunda .
c ’ est ce noyau laissé par le rcd qui a tout ceci porte à croire que la question de la survie tutsi en rdc préoccuperait plusieurs décideurs du monde au point qu ’ ils en feraient l ’ l ’ une des clés pour résoudre la question sécuritaire en rdc .
sinon , comment comprendre cette succession d ’ insurrection tutsi bénéficiant du soutien de certains milieux les clivages entre les différentes communautés linguistiques présentes dans la partie orientale du congo ainsi que la problématique d ’ exploitation des richesses naturelles de l ’ est du congo , sont d ’ autres raisons à la base de qu ’ adviendra-t-il après cette rébellion du m23 ?
plusieurs congolais ne a 90210 reunion ?
see you at the peach pit to celebrate !
jennie garth has joined tori spelling as star and executive producer of the new abc family pilot mystery girls , the network ... ( 10 / 7 / 2013 7 : 59 : 26 pm ) part one of ‘ the real housewives of new jersey ’ brought up teresa giudice and melissa gorga ’ s feud , marital cheating rumors — and you ’ ll never believe the new diss that joe gorga tells his sister ! ( 10 / 6 / 2013 11 : 15 : 28 pm ) mark your calendars , “ queer eye ” fans ; the momentous reunion of carson kressley and the rest of the fab five has an air date . ( 10 / 10 / 2013 1 : 20 : 06 pm ) rugged road to doris klaussen repaved thu oct 10 , 2013 8 : 16 pm edt 3 tons of jack-o-lanterns carved as binder park prepares for zoo boo thu oct 10 , 2013 8 : 16 pm edt feds want $ 9.6m in restitution , but will detroit ever see the money ?
fri oct 11 , 2013 06 : 16 am edt kwame kilpatrick ’ s 24 corruption counts fri oct 11 , 2013 12 : 16 am edt detroiters voice disappointment in kwame kilpatrick thu oct 10 , 2013 8 : 16 pm edt drew sharp : redemption for verlander , cabrera and tigers ’ luster fri oct 11 , 2013 04 : 16 am edt coyotes 4 , red wings 2 : why the wings won on thursday night fri oct 11 , 2013 02 : 16 am edt senate to consider adding cyberbullying to michigan ’ s anti-bullying law tue oct 8 , 2013 6 : 16 pm edt city of detroit thu oct 10 , 2013 04 : 16 am edt garden city dumps residents ’ confidential paperwork in community recycling bin wed oct 9 , 2013 8 : 16 pm edt power restored in redford township wed oct 9 , 2013 2 : 16 pm edt police accuse waterford twp. motorist of pointing gun at a truck driver tue mar 26 , 2013 10 : 16 pm edt die-hard fans reap payoff in game 5 win fri oct 11 , 2013 02 : 16 am edt snyder ’ s office downplays significance of timing of detroit ’ s bankruptcy filing thu oct 10 , 2013 10 : 16 am edt ace justin verlander puts ’ v ’ in tigers ’ game 5 victory fri oct 11 , 2013 12 : 16 am edt detroit cfo apologizes , is suspended thu oct 10 , 2013 10 : 16 pm edt report : there ’ s ’ very real chance ’ tigers will trade max scherzer thu oct 10 , 2013 8 : 16 pm edt corruption case turns to restitution fri oct 11 , 2013 02 : 16 am edt sentence a ’ powerful message ’ fri oct 11 , 2013 02 : 16 am edt detroit cfo apologizes , is suspended fri oct 11 , 2013 12 : 16 am edt man pulled out of vehicle , beaten by two men while at stop light in flint fri oct 11 , 2013 06 : 16 am edt ’ i thought he was going to kill me ’ thu oct 10 , 2013 10 : 16 pm edt attorney says new year ’ s day shooting was self defense thu oct 10 , 2013 8 : 16 pm edt autoerotic asphyxiation possible in castro death thu oct 10 , 2013 8 : 16 pm edt saginaw ’ s wolgast corp. announces additions to its staff thu oct 10 , 2013 8 : 16 pm edt lee boyd malvo is trying to challenge his life-without-parole sentences .
police : off-duty officer shot man who tried to rob her search warrant affidavit says police found documents and an uncashed check in a lockbox in woman ’ s car .
man who police say set himself on fire is identified there 's over packing and there 's coleen rooney .
the wag was seen heading off on her holiday to barbados with a staggering six trolleys full of suitcases . ( 10 / 10 / 2013 9 : 19 : 56 am ) geomorphology is the study of landforms and in the antarctic , these studies have mainly been concerned with the effects of the ice sheet on the underlying rock , as well as the study of glacial deposits , and the formation of patterned ground .
are there vast deposits of precious metals and ores beneath the antarctic ice sheet ?
are there huge basins of gas and oil under the weddell and ross seas ?
badminton official halima bushiri said nsc has formed a temporary badminton committee under the chairmanship of arun bujanputra and secretary general kweyabura kente .
oas supports and certifies destruction of weapons in costa rica the northern cross - catechesis and apologeticsliz hoefferle : as individuals and family , we share mission of priestshow the ordained and laity carry out that mission differs , but has same threefold basethe diocese of duluth once again has the opportunity to rejoice as three young men will be ordained to the holy priesthood , with two more being ordained to the transitional diaconate during this month of june.through the sacrament of holy orders , they will be consecrated in christ ’ s name & ldquo ; to feed the church by the word and grace of god & rdquo ; ( lumen gentium 11 ) .we are truly blessed by the generous response of these young men , which allows us to be nourished by god ’ s word and to grow in his grace.priest , prophet and kingmen who have been called by god to serve as priests and thus receive the sacrament of holy orders are empowered to act as representatives of jesus christ and to carry out christ ’ s threefold mission as priest , prophet and king .
the don was so moved by what he saw that he immediately called on the relevant authorities in tanzania – and the larger public – to redouble efforts towards ending such atrocities .
the canadian upper limb surgery expert had volunteered to perform a toe-to-thumb operation on adam robert , one of whose palm was hacked off by assailants two years ago . he is in tanzania on a fact-finding mission , specifically to assess the medical facilities he and his team might to use in future to perform hand and arm surgery on pwa with mutilated limbs and to treat pwa with advanced skin cancer .
commenting on the state of adam robert ’ s health , prof mark said the boy ’ s hand had healed but the & ldquo ; new thumb & rdquo ; was not as flexible as he had expected .
he is optimistic that festo will one day be able to use his arm again – with the help of an artificial limb , adding : & ldquo ; in the meantime , he would need a least two microsurgeries to re-construct his thumb and one finger at least to enable him to hold a pen and paper as well as pick up various other items . & rdquo ; he has lined up consultations with more experts on modalities of working together to improve the health and lives of pwa with mutilated limbs or advanced skin cancer .
oas supports and certifies destruction of arms and ammunition in dominica liat to receive us $ 65 million from cdb for fleet modernisation nairobi — it was supposed to be the " bridge " between sudan and south sudan , a symbol of how two once-warring neighbours can move forward into a new era of peace , a model for amicable problem-solving .
instead , the abyei area remains mired in a & # 8230 ; oslo , norway — the organization for the prohibition of chemical weapons won the nobel peace prize on friday for working to eliminate the scourge that has haunted generations from world war i to the battlefields of syria .
the hague , netherlands ( ap ) — the organization for the probition of chemical weapons was awarded the nobel peace prize on friday for its work to rid the world of such weapons .
here 's a look at the opcw and & # 8230 ; president jakaya kikwete is expected to be the guest of honour at an african medical and research foundation ( amref ) fundraising event to be held on friday at the serena hotel in dar es salaam and will be aired live on itv .
he called upon all tanzanians to watch the event as it will be aired on itv on friday saying every one can contribute through their mobile phones and direct deposits via a bank account number to be displayed as the show is on air .
the second edition of uhuru marathon will be staged in dar es salaam on december 8 and has attracted international athletes as confirmed by the event organizing chairman who happens to be the dar es salaam regional commissioner , sadick m. sadick .
the annual nyerere masters golf that tees off at the dar es salaam gymkhana club course has so far attracted over hundred participants from all over the country .
the protracted election is scheduled for october 27 in dar es salam to end an eight-month standoff .
tanzania breweries limited has organised a dar es salaam derby between archrivals young africans and simba to be played at the national stadium on december 14 .
the match will be staged to boost the brewers ’ sales promotion campaign dubbed nani mtani jembe as confirmed by the brewers brand manager for the kilimanjaro beer george kavishe yesterday .
four teams out of the 14 have managed to keep unbeaten run up to the end of the seventh round of the mainland premier soccer league .
simba 's newest scoring sensational khamis tambwe is again on the spotlight as the dar es salaam giants will be away to ruvu shooting at the national stadium in dar es salaam tomorrow .
dar es salaam gymkhana club will for the firth year in a row host the annual bq open junior tennis tournament mid next month .
simba ’ s marksman khamis tambwe has set up a target of twenty goals at the end of the first half of the ongoing mainland premiership soccer season .
the burundi international who signed for simba at the beginning of this season , declared his mission during an interview at the end of the team ’ s practise session in dares salaam yesterday .
young africans ugandan import khamis kiiza has vowed to track simba striker khamis tambwe in the race towards golden boot award for the unfolding premiership season .
the yanga striker who scored the only goal against ruvu shootring last saturday at the national stadium in dar es salaam has taken his tally to two after as many appearances .
it ’ s hard to suggest that the dar es salaam side is on its way to the relegation tunnel as plenty of time and games remain on the fixture .
jkt ruvu and simba goalkeepers shaaban dihile and abel dharia have so kept the longest clean sheets of 270 minutes between the posts .
regional commissioner evarist ndikilo who was accompanied by the city ’ s mayor stanslaus mabula confirmed to the tanzania football federation ’ s president leodegar tenga that the authorities will give boost by contributing a staggering $ 118,000 for the installation of the turf .
hosts rhino rangers and ashanti united are scheduled to meet in their first leg tie of the mainland premiership to be played at the ali hassan mwinyi stadium in tabora this evening .
the finals will be held in namibia and the first leg match is scheduled to be staged in lusaka between february 13 and 15 .
the cycling association of tanzania ( chabata ) has chopped down entry fees for aspiratnts who need to contest for the body ; s general election as confirmed by chairman nazil manji in dar es salaam yesterday .
kinondoni – based top land club cruise to national pool champions at te end of the championship staged in morogoro over the weekend .
so far results of 28 matches played refelcets a mixed outcome as some of the underdogs have tried hard to shrug of their tag .
the government has said it is concerned with the poor form of athletics in the country and there is a need for immediate action to serve the situation .
the tournamwent has drawn selected teams from the continent where airtel operates and agege township stadium is the venue for the event .
previously the deadline was to be last sunday but a firther extension was entettained to lure more entries .
makasi who joined simba during the previous season sustained injury in one of the premiership matches to stay on the sidelines for the rest of the season .
simba sc say that mtibwa sugar should not expect an easy ride against them as it was the case in the last season .
i wonder if he beat the crap out of someone in the street a couple of day 's ago ? ? ?
column | the nationals ’ main task in evaluating cal ripken jr. is finding out how much he wants to be their manager .
wise : can cal make it as a manager ? would ripken go to washington ? baker interested in nats jobrevisiting best , worst casesnationals positional reviews one commenter thinks cal ripken jr . ' s consecutive games streak means he 's too " selfish " to be a manager .
thomas boswell disagrees .
the drumbeat for the idea of cal ripken coming to the nationals gets louder .
now that all the dust has settled , nats journal looks back at the preseason warnings or signs of glory to come .
column | baseball can be random , dramatic , and tempestuous , and in the playoffs , it ’ s more of all of them .
in the final installment of the five-part series , we take a look at the bullpen .
the alds opener between the rays and red sox ended in a rout , but an argument could be made that it turned on one play .
breaking down the american league series between the rays and red sox and the a ’ s and tigers .
in 2013 , the answer is , let us count the ways — and it may be instructive for the 2014 nationals .
cyrus is set to see success with " bangerz , " as the album is on pace to top the billboard 200 .
the record is projected to sell 250,000 copies in its first week .
" the huffington post " is a registered trademark of thehuffingtonpost.com , inc .
all rights reserved . infos de dernière minute , photos et opinions sur al huffington post maghreb lire aussi : l 'interview d 'ali zeidan sur cnn ...
" la libye essaie de construire un etat et n 'en a pas honte " finances - boris vian aurait dit que l 'argent ne fait pas le bonheur de ceux qui n 'en ont pas .
il est certain en tout cas que pour sortir de la pauvreté il faut bien avoir accès à une source de financement .
de là est née l 'idée de la micro-finance : de petits prêts à des personnes pauvres , d 'habitude sans garantie .
société - il va sans dire que le " progressisme " est une notion floue .
bien qu 'elle soit fréquemment utilisée , elle n 'en demeure pas moins équivoque , même au vu des sociétés à ancienneté démocratique .
le progressisme n 'est pas en totale rupture avec l 'actuel .
son intention n 'est pas de révolutionner l 'ordre établi , mais de l 'améliorer , progressivement , pour un devenir meilleur .
peine de mort - inefficace face au crime , injuste , jamais à l 'abri d 'erreurs et cependant irréparable , la peine de mort est un échec de la justice .
pourtant , chaque année , dans le monde entier , des milliers de femmes et d 'hommes sont condamnés à la peine capitale .
au cours des dernières décennies , la peine de mort a reculé .
deux tiers des etats de la planète l 'ont abolie ou adopté un moratoire .
mais des chiffres , accablants , demeurent : 58 pays l 'appliquent encore .
littérature - si le chef d 'œuvre de nabokov a su s 'attirer , en même temps que la gloire d 'une renommée mondiale , une moisson heureuse de commentaires , il reste pourtant un roman qui n 'en aura pas moins manqué de garder en suspens certaines questions quant à son sens véritable .
il renferme trois énigmes .
auxquelles je pense avoir trouvé des réponses .
briller ensemble - que faire pour que la justice et la paix relèvent de la réalité vécue et participent à la construction d 'une humanité solidaire ?
faut-il contextualiser les messages des saintes écritures et les adapter à nos besoins d 'aujourd 'hui et de demain ?
littérature - en vieillissant , l 'enfance ressurgit et nous renvoie des souvenirs heureux ou douloureux .
les écrivains s 'en emparent chacun dans leur style pour nous livrer des leçons de vie .
le récit autobiographique offre le témoignage d 'une vie , d 'une époque , d 'un lieu .
histoire - plusieurs ouvrages , éclairants et bien documentés , ont été publiés ces derniers temps sur la disparition des juifs en pays arabo-musulmans .
leurs titres évoquent avec éloquence la fin d 'une séquence historique plurimillénaire .
dialogue national - ceux qui pensent que l 'opposition s 'est frotté les mains de joie à la lecture du 18ème communiqué de meljess echoura se trompent .
sans faire de l 'angélisme politique , je sais pertinemment que cet énième dérobade d 'ennahdha n 'est pas de bonne augure pour le pays , qui devra encore attendre pour sortir de la crise .
les chasseurs chevronnés connaissent la dangerosité de l ' " ours blessé " quand il est acculé . c 'est malheureusement à cette image que m 'ont mené les innombrables arnaques auxquelles s 'est prêtée cette troïka depuis deux ans .
historien des mentalités et des religions en afrique du nord integrisme - il est légitime d 'utiliser tous les moyens pour combattre l 'intégrisme afin de sauver le printemps arabe de cette dérive et , grâce à un peuple qui continue à fonctionner au quotidien , les intégristes seront exclus de l 'espace public dans le but de réaliser le rêve révolutionnaire , à savoir une société démocratique , tolérante et plurielle .
anthropologue des religions , spécialiste de l 'islam , directeur de la revue noor religion - je veux briser les tabous imposés par l 'islam des rigoristes , arrimer cette religion magnifique aux données du temps présent .
pendant des années , les musulmans ont été les otages des fondamentalistes , de leur sémantique , de leur timing .
il est temps de les contrer .
professeur de science politique et directeur de l ’ institut d ’ études européennes de l ’ université saint-louis à bruxelles international - à la veille des élections européennes de 2014 , espérons que les événements de lampedusa permettront de réintroduire un peu de clairvoyance et , osons le terme , d 'humanité dans les débats sur l 'immigration irrégulière .
islam politique - la tunisie ne tombera pas dans le terrorisme aveugle qu 'a connu l 'irak , ou celui de l 'algérie de la décennie 1990 .
la tunisie ne sera par ailleurs jamais le liban .
par contre , la psychose du terrorisme risque de l 'emporter : le terrorisme est une guerre des nerfs .
pour le vaincre , il faut vaincre la peur .
malek jaziri ne jouera pas contre l 'israélien amir weintraubfacebook / malek jaziriil se retire du tournoi cinq mois de prison avec sursis pour shili en punition de son jet d 'oeuf , meherzi obtient un non-lieuflickr un récit poignantwikipédia1977 , la guillotine tue pour la dernière fois en france ... c 'était un tunisien syrie : 190 civils tués par des rebelles dans des attaques contre des alaouitesafp le premier ministre libyen accuse " un groupe politique " de son enlèvementafp au maroc , les islamistes en minorité dans le nouveau gouvernementafp / palais royal une cinquantaine de pays appliquent encore la peine de mortflickr / paulle maghreb observe un moratoire de fait bab jazira : le vendeur à la sauvette a succombé à ses blessuresflickr / pozek le fmi revoit à la baisse la croissance mondiale et prévoit 3 % pour la tunisie en 2013republicoftogo.com les députés retirés ne retourneront pas à l 'anc sans garantiesfacebook / les députés en sit-in , of les etats-unis gèlent une partie de leur aide à l 'egyptewww.thejc.com une étudiante tunisienne insulte une ministre : 3 mois de prisonflickr / amineghrabi le drame de lampedusa est le résultat d 'une " guerre de l 'europe contre les migrants " afp l 'isie au menu du troisième volet des séances préparatoires du dialogue nationalfacebook / isie du rififi chez les médecins tunisiensfacebook / sirt tunisrésidents et internes révoltés !
ça se bouscule déjà pour assister à la coupe du monde au brésilfacebook / coupe du monde 2014 quand le comité nobel n 'arrive pas à joindre ses lauréats ...
twitter est làtwitter malala , l 'adolescente qui était pressentie pour le nobel de la paixafp il n 'a pas le droit de jouer contre un israélienfacebook / malek jaziri 8 moyens faciles de faire durer vos vêtements plus longtempsgetty des casques de star wars transformés en oeuvres d 'artart wars did facebook temporarily suspend a gay porn star for posting a picture of him and his husband kissing ?
in a series of tweets throughout the day on tuesday , jackman created a timeline of events .
according to his feed , trouble started after he posted a photo of himself and caber on oct .
8 .
that photo was followed by a smattering of homophobic death threats from facebook users , jackman said .
if you look on the upper left-side of the pic you will see the logo for titan men , which is a porno company , and facebook states that promoting pornography is against their policies and " community standards " .
so can we please stop with the hysterical persecution complex now ?
go to the twitter photo of his hubby @ dirkcaber and you 'll see why there is just a little bit of concern .
whoever moderates the comments for gay voices is not doing so ethically aweee . . . too bad you got hate , so here 's a little love ^ ^ ^ ^ japan and russia , which now do most of the krill fishing , have perfected equipment for peeling and processing krill rapidly .
tom toles on the economy : & thinsp ; a collection of cartoons about the state of the economy .
new spain captain moya counting on nadal for davis cup & ldquo ; it is a big debate now in our country about our performance on the international competitions .
we need a good chemistry , a balance of old and young players now , everybody got a tag of potential and we are just hoping one or two will step out if a strategic plan can be applied , while looking for professional on every aspect so as to excel & rdquo ; , he added . ’ sports and games promotion is the responsibility of every one in order to raise performance and participation of our country at international competitions ’ , he concluded .
bermuda premier welcomes uk and us support for island 's economy ’ an average school i would want my children to attend ’ the kids aren ’ t all right and neither are the grown-ups area costume races to get you in the halloween spirit our list of races , witch ’ s hat and zombie makeup welcome .
when it comes to skin and diet , you can judge a book by its cover .
are you getting enough ?
it ’ s not always easy to tell .
web site counts calories and offers recipies based on the user ’ s goals .
tazara owners asked to take bold decisions on tumbling firm na waryoba yankami israel expresses dismay at cutback of u.s. aid to egypt effort to engage the pakistani taliban is stymied by insurgents ’ demands and the killing of a general .
the taliban claims responsibility via twitter for the shooting of the official in kunduz province .
" chronicle " director josh trank is considering him for the human torch in a " fantastic four " reboot currently in development .
" definitely interested in the project .
josh trank is a buddy of mine , " jordan said. bandits , not rebels , but for the people living in the rukoko marshes , the cause richard , whose job is to collect charcoal , is one of very in the desolate landscape of tree stumps undulating away to " they are as poor as i am and have nothing to lose , " the rukoko marshes had warned everyone to vacate the area but nobody took them torched several houses in the area , " says anicet , one of the two other labourers .
on one of the ghost farms , cowpats dry in the sun , a few " the herders got the message and took their cattle to spate of killings were the work of gangs of " unidentified armed bandits " and but since a string of elections kicked off in may with opportunity for burundi to prove its democratic credentials and seal the end of " there is no doubt , the people we saw are not simple thugs , new kalashnikov assault rifles in the rukoko marshes and adjacent kibira forest. officer says as he trundles on through the swampy terrain .
the financial media weigh in on the latest big social-media ipo .
and which niche chip stocks are set to rebound ?
argentina to pay $ 500 mln to end disputes at world bank -report the word " aeronomy " was introduced by s. chapman in 1932 .
it indicates the study of the chemical and physical phenomena in the atmosphere of the earth at a height above 30 km .
the price of oil just went up because traders misread a tweet the u.s. may cut aid to egypt .
five reasons that & # 8217 ; s a good idea ( and six why it & # 8217 ; s a bad idea ) .
why the rise of china makes the u.s. even lonelier at the united nations the companies requested to be part of petitioners in the case through an affidavit avowed by advocate tumaini shija which the court said it would allow on condition that it is submitted by october 15 , next week .
in filing the case , tcas asked the court to nullify the legislation passed by the parliament requiring every mobile user to be deducted 1000 / - monthly as simcard tax , claiming that the majority of simcard users in the country cannot afford the expense .
deputy attorney general george masaju and principal state attorney edson mweyunge objected to the application which was submitted on monday by advocate fatuma karume and beatus malima who represent the companies .
according to advocate mweyunge , the application is before the court but the applicant did not ask for leave of court to represent other parties .
the deputy attorney general and mweyuge are the representatives of the ministry of finance and economic affairs while the attorney general is the respondent in the case .
the extreme dryness of the air causes any heat that is radiated back into the atmosphere to be lost instead of being absorbed by the water vapor in the atmosphere .
the source of this energy is the sun , and because its heating effect is greater at the equator than at the poles , it creates a circulation in the atmosphere .
hot moist air rises over the equator and flows at a high level towards the poles , where it cools and sinks .
the equator is therefore a region of low pressure , and the poles are regions of high pressure .
the atmosphere is not a closed system .
it interacts with the land , the ocean , and the ice ; and the ice in turn interacts with the ocean.winds create currents in the ocean .
the annual cycle of freezing and melting of the sea ice around antarctica creates a vertical circulation in the ocean .
pet of the week : trinity sun apr 15 , 2012 01 : 18 am edt warm weather brings out golfers thu jan 5 , 2012 11 : 18 am est sprucing up dc park fri oct 7 , 2011 7 : 18 pm edt neb .
lawmaker to introduce ’ good time ’ reforms thu oct 10 , 2013 1 : 18 pm edt passion and people both make quilting so enjoyable for hickman woman thu oct 10 , 2013 5 : 18 pm edt hennings , deyle-barth and kiwanis clubs to be honored thu oct 10 , 2013 5 : 18 pm edt keep eyes peeled for whoopers thu oct 10 , 2013 5 : 18 pm edt schwarz just looks as if hes sitting thu oct 10 , 2013 3 : 18 pm edt va backs governors choice for new home thu oct 10 , 2013 3 : 18 pm edt junk jaunt treasures thu oct 10 , 2013 5 : 18 pm edt new city officers thu oct 10 , 2013 3 : 18 pm edt benefit planned to help buy handcycle for disabled man thu oct 10 , 2013 3 : 18 pm edt exchange student sees few ’ couch potatoes ’ thu oct 10 , 2013 3 : 18 pm edt welcome to the weekend fri oct 11 , 2013 01 : 18 am edt gop meeting with obama called ’ very useful ’ thu oct 10 , 2013 7 : 18 pm edt choosing a firearm fri oct 11 , 2013 01 : 18 am edt pink out day set for council bluffs futbol club thu oct 10 , 2013 11 : 18 pm edt neb. lawmaker to introduce ’ good time ’ reforms wed oct 9 , 2013 9 : 18 pm edt new zealand teen asks lpga to waive membership age limit watch : ylvis brings " the fox " to " late night with jimmy fallon " nbc bay areawatch ylvis and the roots perform “ the fox ” on jimmy fallonunder the gun reviewwikipedia : the foxsee all 36 sourcesrelated ylvis contact ussubscribecustomer servicesadvertise with htr mediacareers with gannettbusiness opportunity-delivery routesour commitmentmanage my subscriptionactivate your subscriptionabout us wisconsin badgersvarsitywisconsin outdoor funclubhouse livegridiron insiderpackersgameday live ! submit a sports photo roncalli sophomore tallie piaskowski is no stranger to the wiaa division 2 state girls tennis ... - 9 : 42 pm self-driving cars of the future are sort of here now art of tablesettings annual exhibit at rahr west art museum manitowoc construction is underway for new 10 screen carmike cinema in manitowoc country music legend mel tillis at the capitol civic centre in manitowoc newsobituariesschoolsnationalrecordsdataminespecial sectionsarchiveopinionsubmit a lettersportswisconsin badgersvarsitywisconsin outdoor funclubhouse livegridiron insiderpackersgameday live ! submit a sports photovideosvideo librarybusinessliving here 2012 / 2013photosvideophoto galleriesorder photo reprintsshare photoslife & stylemilestonesmy cozi calendarday trip videos2013 menu guidemovieshealthentertainment2013 menu guidemy cozi calendarcalendar events helpcontact ussubscribecustomer servicesadvertise with htr mediacareers with gannettbusiness opportunity-delivery routesour commitmentmanage my subscriptionactivate your subscriptionabout us south african miners end strike as amplats concedes on job cuts abc news-world - more headlinessyrian lawmaker lauds nobel prize for inspectors fri oct 11 , 2013 07 : 20 am edtmore syria stories cbs news-national - more headlinesdozens of students hurt when bus hit by truck overturns fri oct 11 , 2013 05 : 00 am edt four men rescued west of guadeloupe after being lost at sea for six days click here for leafguard of the midland 'sfan page on facebook !
she goes on to offer a few tips for a successful marriage : we sometimes forget to nurture the relationships with our spouse the way we do with our children .
we get so busy being a mom or dad that we lose sight of this very important need .
go above and beyond to spend as much quality time together as possible .
jep and i try to go on a date a week and it has really helped keep our relationship strong . the mortgage interest deduction is one of the largest tax expenditures in the u.s. tax code but the rate at which it is claimed and the average amount deducted vary widely across and within states .
more coroner ids passenger killed in crash thu oct 10 , 2013 6 : 19 pm edt gallery : naacp meets the ku klux klan mon sep 2 , 2013 10 : 41 am edt cheyenne mulls underage e-cigarette ban thu oct 10 , 2013 8 : 41 pm edt city of cheyenne yet to see much effect of government shutdown thu oct 10 , 2013 10 : 41 pm edt plancheyenne asks for community input thu oct 10 , 2013 8 : 41 pm edt city mulls underage e-cigarette ban thu oct 10 , 2013 08 : 41 am edt official discusses changes to state ’ s disability waivers thu oct 10 , 2013 08 : 41 am edt prioritizing key for furloughed agencies in wyoming tue oct 8 , 2013 10 : 41 am edt belly tags will track gros ventre cutties wed oct 9 , 2013 12 : 41 am edt setting the stage wed oct 9 , 2013 12 : 41 am edt palisades boundary redrawn , needs ok wed oct 2 , 2013 02 : 41 am edt showdown shutters parks wed oct 2 , 2013 02 : 41 am edt the redskins running back ’ s carries are down in his second season , but it ’ s by circumstance , not design .
hickenloopers big national park score fri oct 11 , 2013 03 : 08 am edt father opens up about wifes murder of their son fri oct 11 , 2013 01 : 08 am edt giguere stops 39 shots in avs shutout of bruins thu oct 10 , 2013 11 : 08 pm edt grand junction man accused of urn thefts fri oct 11 , 2013 03 : 08 am edt man shot dead in aurora fri oct 11 , 2013 03 : 08 am edt san diego state rallies for 27-20 win over afa fri oct 11 , 2013 01 : 08 am edt groups call for an end to death penalty in colorado fri oct 11 , 2013 01 : 08 am edt police : ’ insanity ’ search done on holmes ’ computer fri oct 11 , 2013 01 : 08 am edt giguere stops 39 shots in avs ’ shutout of bruins thu oct 10 , 2013 11 : 08 pm edt oregon man walking to honor his son hit , killed by truck in colorado fri oct 11 , 2013 05 : 08 am edt hickenlooper appeals to get colorado ’ s federal workers back on job fri oct 11 , 2013 05 : 08 am edt © 2013 indexmundi - all rights reserved2013 big red breakfast tickets on sale now should lifeguards be required at hotel and apartment pool ?
thu oct 10 , 2013 12 : 18 pm edt ways to save : 60 % off hooked on phonics & dr. seuss fri oct 11 , 2013 06 : 18 am edt two men charged for metro east metrolink robberies wed oct 9 , 2013 6 : 18 pm edt man convicted of valentine ’ s day murder attempt of estranged wife in swansea thu oct 10 , 2013 10 : 18 pm edt tedxsanantonio conference to feature talks by utsa faculty thu oct 10 , 2013 4 : 27 pm edt neighborhood bar in the works at ilan thu oct 10 , 2013 2 : 27 pm edt swri study sheds lights on formation of plutos satellites thu oct 10 , 2013 12 : 27 pm edt cibolo to consider making a deal with walmart sat sep 7 , 2013 12 : 27 am edt ’ beautification day ’ to feature crime stats , clean up efforts fri jul 19 , 2013 8 : 27 pm edt sample 40-plus cultures at the folklife festival sun jun 9 , 2013 12 : 27 am edt ’ beautification day ’ to feature crime stats , clean up efforts fri jul 19 , 2013 6 : 27 pm edt fiesta celebration at mission san jos a fitting finale mon apr 29 , 2013 02 : 27 am edt create memories in bastrop sun aug 18 , 2013 8 : 27 pm edt take a trip back in time to smithville sun aug 18 , 2013 8 : 27 pm edt rodriguez , two other incumbents win re-election to hisd board sun aug 18 , 2013 8 : 27 pm edt pasadena , lamar ok bond issues sun aug 18 , 2013 8 : 27 pm edt water ballot issue has new urgency as drou ...
thu oct 10 , 2013 06 : 27 am edt salmonella outbreak shows up in texas thu oct 10 , 2013 06 : 27 am edt texas ag abbott kicks off gubernatorial run sun jul 14 , 2013 8 : 27 pm edt manziel leaves mannings ’ football camp a day early sun jul 14 , 2013 8 : 27 pm edt ag abbott set to formally begin gubernatorial run in san antonio today sun jul 14 , 2013 10 : 27 am edt majority of calories to households in tajikistan while cooking oil urban population and is the primary market for importers and for distribution to the entire country .
khujand is a major city in the parts of the fergana valley in uzbekistan .
kurgan-tyube is a major market the south of the country and is a key market for in the abdurahmanov family ’ s flat on the 4th floor of this apartment block in kurgan-tube , simply turning the water tap is a pleasure . out comes clean , drinkable water .
muhammadjon abdurahmanov lives here with his parents , and he likes the change .
“ the problem with the water is over .
now i can wash my hands , take a shower , get on with my life faster , ” he says .
rakhmatullaev said the decision was made at the request of the health minister .
" praying the mass anew " bulletin catchesis series on the roman missal , third edition which employees would be furloughed .
one associate producer was let go due to his excessive refilling of his brita . " / > he followed federal procedure and evaluated which employees would be furloughed .
one associate producer was let go due to his excessive refilling of his brita .
benga and killed a man and two women in cold blood , " pontien barutwanayo , a to the army two months ago two armed men who were hiding on their property .
the isale is part of bujumbura rural province , a stronghold of in a separate incident in gitega province two policemen on " there was an exchange of fire and one of the policemen was was " deeply concerned about signs of a returning climate of impunity , the the us spent billions in kyrgyzstan , but is leaving without a trace advani crediting me on ordinance is speculation : pranab mukherjee | allegations of muslim appeasement false , says akhilesh | where is corruption , asks delhi cm sheila dikshit | malta enterprise terminated biotech envoy sir chris ’ s role for ‘ underperformance ’ with the onset of world war ii he returned to active service and earned two decorations as the chief of naval operations . © 2013 indexmundi - all rights reservedanswers to frequently asked questions : | the spectrum | thespectrum.com the big storycourts and lawlatest news and coverage of the u.s. supreme court ben pershingcuccinelli and other defenders of the law have said that it is a vital tool for stopping child predators .
get ready for a showdown to try to shut down obamacare house gop is threatening the new law ; aarp wants young adults to opt in ; and tips for what to do on oct .
1 .
thu sep 19 13 : 32 : 00 utc 2013 rc to address challenge of efd prices na the guardian reporter the rc made the remarks following mbeya businesscommunity ’ s request to get the efds free of charge , saying the machines are sold at prices beyond their reach .
the efds are sold at 800,000 / - or more and yet some businesspersons in mbeya say their businesses cannot afford to buy the devices . & ldquo ; tra ’ s move is bad .
we could end up shutting down our businesses as we cannot afford to buy the devices , they are too expensive compared to the level of our businesses , & rdquo ; complained one of the businessmen , john mwamenge .
for his part , tra officer in mbeya region , rishedd bade told businesspersons that the authority was speaking to efds dealers to look at the possibility of reducing the prices and at the same time liaise with banks to offer loans to businesspersons to enable them buy the machines .
paymentpayments were due may 24 .
please bring any payments owed to d-week .
those who had not paid in full by may 24 owe an additional $ 10 for a total of $ 225 .
go to http : / / tinyurl.com / duluthdweekformsfor a packing list .
we have listed " what to the works of photojournalist jason miccolo johnson will be shown in two d.c. galleries.1381018747000 museum-goers prowl exhibits looking for works to capture in a snapshot — and in their memories.1380899940000 detroit has its art collection appraised by christie ’ s amid fears of a fire sale.1380899820000 the art collector ’ s pledge includes works by such modern artists as robert smithson and ad reinhardt.1380240060000 the institution ’ s top official led digitization efforts , record fundraising and the drive for a new museum.1379515800000 an exhibit at the national gallery of art will take a look at the black soldiers of a union regiment.1378855680000 a timeline of the work of leon bakst and his years in the company of alice warder garrett.1377267403000 ’ permanent summer , ’ ’ chocolate city rest in peace , ’ ’ mynd up ’ and ’ paradox of masculinity ’ 1376667012000 artist mary coble seeks to draw attention to the fda ’ s ban on certain gay men donating blood.1375462080000 the exhibition & ldquo ; georges braque and the cubist still life , 1928 – 1945 & rdquo ; at the phillips collection.1374359615000 a docent ’ s tour wittily snakes its way through national gallery in a strongly worded letter , constance caplan paints a picture of a board and institution at a crossroads.1373467740000 the selection is arranged to show the new york-based artist couple ’ s affinities.1373046353000 the corcoran exhibition balances the horrors of war and the aesthetics of war photography.1372548540000 ’ will to adorn ’ sizes up diverse styles of dress , identity for blacks exhibits invite rediscovery of the artists , provide a deeper glimpse of the pop art sensibility.1371759014000 delaware artist ron meick ’ s work is on exhibit at washington printmakers gallery.1371224092000 the show at post ’ s hillwood mansion lets visitors immerse themselves in the intricacies of luxurious living.1371221743000 in a women in the arts show , ringgold ’ s ’ 60s works still challenge us to see — and celebrate — color.1371161040000 ’ threads of feeling ’ : mothers ’ tokens of love in 1700s britain ihi chief executive director dr salim abdulla noted that & ldquo ; the trial in bagamoyo is designed to see if results in the us can be replicated in africa where malaria is rampant and if we can even improve level and durability of protection by increasing the dose . & rdquo ; dr abdulla established that the undertaking was important in such a way that the government was partially funding the development .
briefs for oct .
11 fri oct 11 , 2013 01 : 28 am edt gun appeal doesnt sway henrico jury fri oct 11 , 2013 01 : 28 am edt biz to go : soft caramels new from hershey fri oct 11 , 2013 01 : 28 am edt jetblue to let customers pool loyalty points fri oct 11 , 2013 01 : 28 am edt u.s. jobless claims jump to 374,000 because of backlog fri oct 11 , 2013 01 : 28 am edt sarvis not invited to participate in final governor debate thu oct 10 , 2013 9 : 28 pm edt one dead , one injured in head-on collision thu oct 10 , 2013 5 : 28 pm edt teach for america is option for rps fri oct 11 , 2013 03 : 28 am edt truckers gearing up for ride for the constitution fri oct 11 , 2013 01 : 28 am edt teach for america is an option for rps fri oct 11 , 2013 01 : 28 am edt new tropical disturbance in the atlantic thu oct 10 , 2013 11 : 28 pm edt jury clears toyota in wrongful death lawsuit thu oct 10 , 2013 11 : 28 pm edt rrha spends 900k to tackle bed bugs fri oct 11 , 2013 01 : 28 am edt church document linksworldwide marriage encounterfor your marriageretrouvaillecatholic familylandthe integrated catholic life : a catholic e-magazine about integrating faith , family & workbirthrightproject rachel ( hope after abortion ) faith & family : the magazine of catholic livingewtn kidschristopher west 's websitetheology of the body institutetheology of the bodyinternational alliancetheology of the body for teenstheology of the bodytheology of the body for teens leadeship trainingone more soul oktoberfest starts friday night at st. mary ’ s thu oct 10 , 2013 8 : 12 pm edt man accused of sex with puppy thu oct 10 , 2013 6 : 12 pm edt alton to tax some natural gas users thu oct 10 , 2013 6 : 12 pm edt oak ridge boys coming to alton wed oct 9 , 2013 8 : 12 pm edt don ’ t miss this fri oct 11 , 2013 02 : 12 am edt jury convicts man in valentine ’ s day stabbing of his estranged wife in swansea fri oct 11 , 2013 12 : 12 am edt nonprofit groups sue for right to build group homes for disabled in hecker thu oct 10 , 2013 6 : 12 pm edt police : man with screwdriver robs 83-year-old st. louis nun thu oct 10 , 2013 12 : 12 pm edt art club to host zombie car wash fri oct 11 , 2013 04 : 12 am edt local residents learn to be lifesavers fri oct 11 , 2013 04 : 12 am edt shutdown stymies local craft brewers fri oct 11 , 2013 02 : 12 am edt police probe rash of burglaries in vermilion county thu oct 10 , 2013 8 : 12 pm edt former ui student to be deported thu oct 10 , 2013 8 : 12 pm edt ex-parkland player to ump nlcs thu oct 10 , 2013 4 : 12 pm edt making a crocheted tree of life afghan for a wedding gift thu oct 10 , 2013 4 : 12 pm edt no foul play in death of man at walmart wed jul 24 , 2013 2 : 12 pm edt no new taxes , fees in preckwinkles 2014 budget plan thu oct 10 , 2013 8 : 12 pm edt subsidy phaseout forces city retirees to pay up to $ 4,440 extra thu oct 10 , 2013 8 : 12 pm edt run the marathon and help the homeless fri oct 11 , 2013 04 : 12 am edt subsidy phaseout forces city retirees to pay up to $ 4,440 extra fri oct 11 , 2013 04 : 12 am edt shoppers who like dominicks variety , prices sorry to hear its closing fri oct 11 , 2013 12 : 12 am edt illinois dems pressure boehner on shutdown thu oct 10 , 2013 10 : 12 pm edt nurse accused of abusing soldier with quadriplegia thu oct 10 , 2013 10 : 12 pm edt naperville man accused of trying lure teens on facebook thu oct 10 , 2013 10 : 12 pm edt aldermen decry plan to privatize mammogram program fri oct 11 , 2013 12 : 12 am edt watch out for counterfeit bears tickets thu oct 10 , 2013 10 : 12 pm edt dominick ’ s dumps chicago thu oct 10 , 2013 8 : 12 pm edt joliet man dies in garage welding explosion fri oct 11 , 2013 12 : 12 am edt joliet man arrested in 2012 slaying thu oct 10 , 2013 10 : 12 pm edt diocese of joliet schools to hold fundraisers this month thu oct 10 , 2013 8 : 12 pm edt pittsfield students honoring the heroes among us thu oct 10 , 2013 8 : 12 pm edt salvation army wants you to ’ ring ’ in the christmas season thu oct 10 , 2013 12 : 12 pm edt ralls county atv accident sends child to the hospital thu oct 10 , 2013 12 : 12 pm edt poe not on new house gop leadership team thu oct 10 , 2013 6 : 13 pm edt here is a rundown of which glitches individuals and small employers will see on day one in every other state .
it doesn ’ t cost a ton of money to start a conversation with your customers .
here ’ s where to begin if cash is tight .
the sec just lifted an 80-year ban on general solicitation .
here ’ s why that ’ s important for small , growing firms .
stocks in hyperdrive as wall st looks to obama and gop to end shutdown forbes- & lrm ; 8 minutes ago & lrm ; jpmorgan reports quarterly loss as it grapples with legal woes morris county prevention is key in rockaway was one of the recipients of $ 75,000 in dfc grant funds . ( 10 / 9 / 2013 1 : 16 : 14 am ) misi minyak dan gas ke mongolia catat potensi jualan dan peluang perniagaan bernilai rm677.94 juta kuala lumpur , 10 okt ( bernama ) -- misi pemasaran khusus pertama minyak dangas ke mongolia menjana potensi jualan dan perniagaan bernilai rm677.94 jutamenerusi 102 pertemuan perniagaan yang diatur.dalam satu kenyataan hari ini , penganjur misi itu , perbadanan pembangunanperdagangan luar malaysia ( matrade ) , berkata antara produk dan perkhidmatan yangdipromosikan oleh syarikat malaysia ialah injap ... ( 10 / 10 / 2013 4 : 11 : 38 am ) ¿ usas un dispositivo móvil ?
dirígete a m.aol.com / para recibir las noticias de el huffpost para móviles ..
presidente , afi , y catedrático de economía de la empresa , uam me parece perfecta la elección de janet yellen como presidenta de la reserva federal .
europa y el mundo estarán menos expuestos con una persona que ha demostrado ser sensible a los riesgos recesivos , de aumento del desempleo , sin marginar el otro objetivo de estabilidad de precios que tiene asignado ese banco central .
la ue , en una nueva muestra de hipocresía , llora la pérdida de vidas humanas en sus costas ignorando motivos , causas y responsabilidades .
peor aún , los mismos que organizan ceremonias de duelo , aprobaban hace poco leyes que penalizan , no sólo a los inmigrantes , sino a quien ose ayudarles .
autora de ' licking the spoon : a memoir of food , family , and identity ' el presidente de uno de los países más pequeños e insignificantes habló ante la onu .
quedaban solo unos pocos oyentes , pero el discurso ha sido trending topic .
¿ qué tiene este discurso , aparte de ideales románticos , buenismo y una patada en la espinilla del capitalismo egoísta y salvaje ?
gabino diego , uno de los grandes cómicos españoles , recorre españa con ' una noche con gabino ( diez años después ) ' , su delirante autobiografía ahora reinventada .
en la vida de gabino las cosas fueron muy poco convencionales desde el principio .
con un aspecto jovial , un físico envidiable y con la muñeca igual de exquisita que siempre lució , cualquiera diría que pedja stojakovic ( pozega , croacia , 1977 ) sigue disfrutando del baloncesto , pero no , lo dejó hace un par de años , después de conquistar su único anillo , con dallas mavericks .
¡ saludos desde alemania !
me encuentro en múnich para el lanzamiento de the huffington post deutschland .
estamos encantados de asociarnos con tomorrow focus de hubert burda media , una de las empresas de medios digitales de más rápido crecimiento en alemania , que incluye a focus online , el tercer sitio de noticias más grande .
en 2010 la revista ' monocle ' colocaba madrid entre las diez capitales mundiales en calidad de vida .
no era cierto , pero tampoco que ahora se halle en decadencia por culpa del equipo municipal .
ningún equipo municipal , por malo que sea , tiene efectos tan profundos ni tan inmediatos .
el capitalismo , con todos sus fallos , es la única opción .
la tarea que deben asumir los líderes actuales es mejorarlo , aprovechar sus cualidades y erradicar sus defectos .
se trata de mantener la energía de la mejor forma de capitalismo y deshacerse de sus elementos destructivos .
entiendo muy bien las dificultades financieras por las que pasan los países europeos dada la grave crisis en que vivimos , sobre todo en españa .
la tasa de desempleo juvenil en españa ha alcanzado el 56 % , y si no animamos a formarse en las nuevas tecnologías , continuará empeorando .
diputada , psoe y fundadora de la red estatal contra la violencia de género al ministro gallardón le ha extrañado que las mujeres de femen que han desplegado su activismo en el congreso actuasen al grito " aborto es sagrado " .
lo ha calificado de " grito imposible " .
no hablaba de que no hubiese oído el grito con claridad , sino que ( para él ) era un grito ' contradictio in terminis ' .
la presidenta de la junta de andalucía ha significado un cambio de generación , de género y de extracción social que nos era necesario .
la mayoría de la población española no votó la constitución porque no tenían edad para ello y es necesario involucrarla en la gobernación de lo público y que tengan suerte en el empeño .
no hay motivos para dejarles en prisión preventiva .
no hay riesgo de fuga .
en greenpeace siempre afrontamos las consecuencias legales .
tampoco hay riesgo de destrucción de pruebas .
la justicia rusa sigue sin entender que los cargos de piratería ya son lo suficientemente desproporcionados .
la carta indignada de un niño de 12 años contra la clase de religión ni en plasma ante el juezeferuz rechaza llamar a declarar a rajoy por el ' caso bárcenas ' la juez que intentó reabrir el 11 m , inhabilitada 15 añosefe malala , sin nobel " por su edad y sus escasos logros " los candidatos y ganadores del nobel de la paz más sorprendentes ( fotos ) el gobierno concede la nacionalidad española a la familia de payágtres hallan muerta a maría de villota en un hotel de sevilla el gobierno plantea volver a dejar a los becarios sin cotizarphotos.com el juez embargará la casa de pedralbes para cubrir la fianza de urdangarin así promociona defensa el desfile militar del 12 de octubre ( vídeo ) youtube el alcalde de leganés amenaza con mandar " cabezas rapadas " al psoe insultos para la juez alaya y gritos de apoyo para los detenidos el gobierno responde a picardo : son " falsedades notorias y graves injurias " susana díaz trata con rajoy el pacto anticorrupción que rechaza rubalcabaefe algunos de los lugares más bonitos del mundo ( fotos ) kelly cheng travel photography / getty images las curiosas fotos de estrellas de la música con sus padreslife las 4 migraciones que cambiaron la historia genética de europagtres instrumentos hechos con alimentos para luchar contra el hambre ( vídeos ) acción contra el hambre 7 premios nobel que tardaron en enterarse de que eran nobelgtres la niña que le da a su padre el mejor consejo del mundo ( vídeo ) jaf produccionespopular government shutdown boosts jobless claims fri oct 11 , 2013 02 : 07 am edt parsons foundation donates $ 1 million to semper fi fund thu oct 10 , 2013 8 : 07 pm edt police : man arrested in fatal tucson rollover fri oct 11 , 2013 12 : 07 am edt plus-size miniature needs a fit new home thu oct 10 , 2013 6 : 07 pm edt atf offers reward in gun store burglary thu oct 10 , 2013 4 : 07 pm edt shelter preps 27 dogs to be pets thu oct 10 , 2013 4 : 07 pm edt f & g enterprises to build 19 to 26 hangars at chandler airport thu oct 10 , 2013 4 : 07 pm edt lo-lo ’ s , zinburger head to gilbert ’ s heritage marketplace thu oct 10 , 2013 4 : 07 pm edt lo-lo ’ s , zinburger head to gilbert ’ s heritage marketplace wed oct 9 , 2013 8 : 07 pm edt terminix in glendale plans to hire 250 thu oct 10 , 2013 8 : 07 pm edt furloughed luke workers to see smaller paychecks friday wed oct 9 , 2013 8 : 07 pm edt stuff a stocking for troops in glendale wed oct 9 , 2013 2 : 07 pm edt dna helps id man suspected of firing at phoenix officer wed oct 17 , 2012 10 : 07 pm edt tortilla factory key to surprise woman ’ s dream wed oct 9 , 2013 2 : 07 pm edt peoria top online stories of 2013 tue oct 8 , 2013 6 : 07 pm edt rocketoberfest at space center in peoria tue oct 8 , 2013 4 : 07 pm edt schools can now stock epinephrine mon oct 7 , 2013 2 : 07 pm edt queen creek offers recreation ’ test drive ’ at day of play thu oct 10 , 2013 4 : 07 pm edt killer executed for 1978 murder of bisbee man wed oct 9 , 2013 4 : 07 pm edt missing scottsdale woman found in las vegas thu oct 10 , 2013 10 : 07 pm edt mingora — friends and supporters of malala yousafzai in pakistan voiced disappointment as she missed out on the nobel peace prize friday , but the tailban said they were " delighted " at the news .
the 16-year-old was hotly tipped to win the nobel after ...
vocations and priestly formation > consecrated life for womenmeet our women religious tv critic hank stuever on what ’ s good , what ’ s terrible and what you should be watching .
tuesdays at noon | gene weingarten is online to take your questions and abuse .
here ’ s what you need to know when you step up to the mike .
the shuttle discovery took its final flight ( albeit on the back of a 747 ) .
did you catch it in the air ?
photos | the most beautiful sunrises and sunsets you have captured on camera .
zdzisław raczyński : in view of armenia ’ s decision , the association with the eu in the manner planed became impossible . ( 10 / 10 / 2013 11 : 38 : 22 am ) placemat for use in the community meal , or for families site map | terms of use | privacy statement | copyright & trademark notice | eeo jon stewart calls out republicans for not owning the shutdown : ' don 't fart and point at the dog ' the 2014 kia cadenza is a beautiful car in terms of visual appeal and overall feel .
but it lacks personality .
in 1914 sir ernest shackleton and a crew of 27 set sail for the last unclaimed prize in the history of exploration : the first crossing on foot of the antarctic continent .
aspen mourns , memorializes helen klanderud thu oct 10 , 2013 07 : 08 am edt pedicabs from the parking garage ?
wed oct 9 , 2013 07 : 08 am edt police release details of felony menacing and intimidation case wed oct 9 , 2013 07 : 08 am edt alleged gun buyer in clements case due in court tue apr 30 , 2013 11 : 08 am edt woman accused of giving even ebel gun to plead guilty thu oct 10 , 2013 7 : 08 pm edt gj man arrested after service dog dispute thu oct 10 , 2013 5 : 08 pm edt arrested sex offender slips out of cuffs in denver thu oct 10 , 2013 1 : 08 pm edt man arrested on theft charges fri oct 11 , 2013 01 : 08 am edt resorts say they ’ ll open on time fri oct 11 , 2013 01 : 08 am edt ski resorts fight feds for water rights fri oct 11 , 2013 03 : 08 am edt new director for colorado parks and wildlife fri oct 11 , 2013 03 : 08 am edt vets bracing for benefits hit thu oct 10 , 2013 03 : 08 am edt huskies xc wins at rifle fri oct 11 , 2013 01 : 08 am edt two elk arsonist pleads guilty in oregon court thu oct 10 , 2013 11 : 08 pm edt report : councilwoman involved in tv switcheroo fri oct 11 , 2013 02 : 10 am edt wmpd report on councilwoman store return fri oct 11 , 2013 02 : 10 am edt thursday ’ s weather forecast thu oct 10 , 2013 08 : 10 am edt parking public art at tuscawilla thu oct 10 , 2013 2 : 10 pm edt norovirus identified as cause of outbreak that has east marion reeling thu oct 10 , 2013 12 : 10 pm edt staying on healthy schedule a challenge for duo fri oct 11 , 2013 12 : 10 am edt 2 shot in waffle house parking lot fri oct 11 , 2013 06 : 10 am edt argument at bar leads to deadly shooting fri oct 11 , 2013 06 : 10 am edt man barricades self in home ; standoff ensues fri oct 11 , 2013 12 : 10 am edt artist snorts paint , squirts it out his eyes fri oct 11 , 2013 12 : 10 am edt fla .
gop outraises democrats by $ 3.7 million thu oct 10 , 2013 8 : 10 pm edt marriott looks at locations for new timeshare resorts fri oct 11 , 2013 06 : 10 am edt new microsoft ceo by year-end , report says fri oct 11 , 2013 06 : 10 am edt probe : ohio kidnapper may have died during sex act thu oct 10 , 2013 6 : 10 pm edt new lord & taylor to open thursday at mizner park in boca raton fri oct 11 , 2013 12 : 10 am edt ’ the nose ’ knows perfumes & 8212 ; and shares his knowledge thu oct 10 , 2013 8 : 10 pm edt marriott may add time-share resorts thu oct 10 , 2013 6 : 10 pm edt lake ’ s 2,800 teachers could see pay raises thu oct 10 , 2013 8 : 10 pm edt ocoee community ’ s dilemma : cut down oaks that uproot sidewalks ?
wed oct 9 , 2013 12 : 10 pm edt grant will pay for kids ’ meals in after-school programs tue oct 8 , 2013 10 : 10 pm edt perfume thieves on the run after ripping off $ 4,000 in fragrances wed oct 9 , 2013 10 : 10 am edt cops : child hit by car in winter springs thu oct 10 , 2013 10 : 10 am edt georgia aquarium heads to court to get wild-caught beluga whales sought by seaworld mon sep 30 , 2013 8 : 10 pm edt anita orbán is energy ambassador at large for hungary .
vacláv bartuska is energy ambassador at large for the czech republic .
the governor-general , lt gen the rt hon sir jerry mateparae , will present the badge of the general fono of tokelau to the ulu-o-tokelau , aliki faipule salesio lui , at a ceremony at government house wellington on monday 7 october at 3pm .
the badge , approved by the college of arms in london and hm the queen of new zealand , depicts the national symbol of tokelau , the tuluma ( a uniquely tokelauan ... ( 10 / 3 / 2013 5 : 30 : 56 pm ) gov-gen to present badge of the general fono of tokelau the governor-general , lt gen the rt hon sir jerry mateparae , will present the badge of the general fono of tokelau to the ulu-o-tokelau , aliki faipule salesio lui , at a ceremony at government house wellington on monday 7 october at 3pm . ( 10 / 3 / 2013 7 : 15 : 22 pm ) the company is far from having a large enough presence in the district to collect any of the incentives .
couple closes kid ’ s closet and is opening a toy store while it is important to be confident , twhen others hear a lot of & ldquo ; i & rdquo ; language , it is disconcerting to them .
life at work : suntrust staffers get a day off to get their finances in order starbucks ceo calls out congress , google & hp team up on a new laptop , and we debate the merits of the new $ 100 bill .
a hard-driving ghanaian businessman who ’ s somewhat of a jack-of-all-trades , william ato essien , was in london last week for the mining on top africa seminar to lay out his new venture , ( ... )
tullow oil is expected in august to name a ghanaian to run its local subsidiary ( ... )
iran : hassan rohani appelle au dialogue avec les occidentaux le nouveau président élu en juin dernier , et qui prêtait serment ce dimanche après-midi 4 août , a déclaré que la seule façon de communiquer avec son pays était le dialogue et non les sanctions .
il faisait référence aux sanctions économiques infligées à l 'iran depuis que la république a lancé son programme nucléaire controversé .
un message bien accueilli par les etats-unis , un des il y a eu comme un regain de chaleur entre les deux etats .
washington ne pouvait évidemment pas envoyer de représentant étant donné l 'absence de mais pour la maison blanche , & bdquo ; l 'investiture de rohani représente une chance pour l 'iran d 'agir rapidement pour calmer les inquiétudes sur son programme nucléaire « .
washington assure aussi qu 'il serait un partenaire de bonne volonté si le nouveau gouvernement choisissait de répondre à ses obligations internationales .
autrement dit , si l 'iran se montrait plus transparent sur le dans son discours devant les députés , hassan rohani a appelé au dialogue & bdquo ; sur un pied d 'égalité « et dans & bdquo ; le respect mutuel pour faire baisser les hostilités « .
et cela après huit ans de tension avec ahmadinejad . & bdquo ; on ne peut pas contraindre le peuple iranien à abdiquer par des sanctions et des menaces de guerre , a déclaré le président iranien .
un peuple qui , par sa solidarité nationale .
la seule solution pour entretenir des relations avec bilatérale et l ’ abandon des hostilités .
je le dis clairement : si vous voulez une réponse appropriée , n 'utilisez pas le langage des sanctions , mais plutôt un signe qui ne trompe pas : au poste clé de ministre des affaires étrangères , rohani a nommé mohamed javad zarif , ancien diplomate à l 'onu , bien connu des le nouveau président a dit le caractère futile des sanctions sans précédent qui étranglent l 'économie du pays .
le président iranien a ajouté que l ’ iran n ’ a jamais cherché la guerre avec le monde , une manière de rassurer israël qui accuse téhéran de chercher à fabriquer l ’ arme atomique pour l ’ attaquer .
enfin , il a voulu rassurer les pays arabes du golfe persique en affirmant que l ’ iran ne cherchait pas à changer le régime politique et les frontières des pays la présidence américaine a félicité le peuple iranien & bdquo ; pour avoir fait entendre sa voix « et a souligné enfin que & bdquo ; rohani avait bien compris son climate change may be to blame for disappearance of antarctic silverfish once upon a time , as the story goes , antarctic silverfish swam by the thousands in places like arthur harbor at the northern end of the peninsula .
like other parts of the polar food web ãƒâ ¢ € ã ¢ € â  such as adélie penguins and shrimp-like krill ãƒâ ¢ € ã ¢ € â  the silverfish rely on sea ice for parts of their lifecycle .
for example , the sea ice offers cover when the eggs hatch in november , torres noted .
ãƒâ ¢ € ã … â € œit tells me that the population isnãƒâ ¢ € ã ¢ â € žâ ¢ t getting any new recruits , ãƒâ ¢ € ã ‚ â  he said .
ãƒâ ¢ € ã … â € œwhat weãƒâ ¢ € ã ¢ â € žâ ¢ re looking at is a population that is not a healthy one.ãƒâ ¢ € ã ‚ â  the researchers are keenly interested in figuring out where the charcot and avian silverfish populations come from .
that job largely falls to julian ashford , a professor of oceanography at old dominion university .
ãƒâ ¢ € ã … â € œit may be that similar events are driving the pleuragramma , ãƒâ ¢ € ã ‚ â  ashford noted .
ãƒâ ¢ € ã … â € œwhen this fish is missing from the smorgasbord for penguins and other seabirds , [ the predators ] tend to decline in numbers , ãƒâ ¢ € ã ‚ â  he said .
ãƒâ ¢ € ã … â € œthe silverfish is the only antarctic coastal pelagic fish that is accessible to all predators .
it is extremely important.ãƒâ ¢ € ã ‚ â  croatia issues interpol arrest warrant for ceo of hungary 's mol jk orders rubada to give 32,000 ha to investors na the guardian reporter two bahamians rescued by us coast guard after drifting for eight days at sea i notice that you excluded the rep who berated the park ranger at the wwii memorial .
i wonder why could it be because the people that he though would support him yelled at him and not the ranger . "
the fault dear brutus lies not in the stars but in ourselves . "
william shakespeare julius caesar act 1 how do we save ourselves from the republican party ? ? ? " we 're going to reward or friends and punish our enemies " " we need to make life as miserable as possible for them " marine3340 : thanks curseofknowledge , for the barrack quotes ! !
too bad that the why were they forced to leave ?
why did they not comply with the requirement to have another home ?
woe is me .
i am sure it was in the deed they signed years ago when they put a home where a home does not belong and now they must learn to read the rules and most of all - learn to follow the rules .. sorta like enacting the aca - which btw is the law and then refuse to fund the law by shutdown the government - duha ... !
well , then you dems have a problem in your leader because he didn 't read the rules of obamacare - no president can pick and choose who he wants to let follow the law or not !
and for you dems to think this is ok , just proves how brainwashed you are !
you would be rioting in the streets if a repub president did this !
most of the country is asking if they can survive boehner and the tea party . obama has no control over the shutdown .
every one of the closures was from orders of the administration , not congress !
the departments are under obie and his administration , not congress and that is where the orders came from .
to say " it ’ s also costing some people their homes " is not only misleading , it is a lie . they can return to their " vacation " home as soon as the shutdown is over .
he continued , " i 'm a creative genius , and there 's no other way to word it .
i know you 're not supposed to say that about yourself .
i say things the wrong way a lot of times , but the intention is always positive . "
teary tweets for cory monteith as glee tribute goes to air it was supposed to be the “ bridge ” between sudan and south sudan , a symbol of how two once-warring neighbours can move forward into a new era of peace , a model for amicable problem-solving .
instead , the abyei area remains mired in a worsening crisis which stands in the way of full rapprochement between khartoum and juba .
african union peacekeepers in somalia patrol in a tank as control only parts of mogadishu .
the spokesperson for the ugandan people ’ s the addition of the 4,000 amisom troops meets a december request by the un security council to bring the force to 12,000 soldiers .
a far short of the 20,000 the african union estimated to be necessary at the start yoweri museveni to provide the remaining troops if supported by the available , then uganda is ready to do so because we have the will and the particularly ghana and nigeria , to commit to earlier pledges of troops for the to create an islamic state on the horn of africa .
the druma are beatin and da pistas be poppin in dat ghetto jungle still ?
here ’ s townhall ’ s argument : ( a ) fanatical following , ( b ) proven newsmaker for attacks on obama , ( c ) unparalleled campaigner in 2010 for election of women . & ldquo ; palin has enormous juice , but the key question is always , ’ what ’ s she going to do with it ? ’ & rdquo ; like him or not , townhall says , the house speaker leads the only branch of government that republicans control . & ldquo ; he has his hand on the faucet of government and can practically turn it on or off at will , & rdquo ; townhall says .
the columnist ’ s clout comes from his innovative media research center and his influence behind the conservative web sites newsbusters and cns news .
townhall hails the wisconsin governor for taking on unions and for showing that a conservative can govern a purple state .
head of one of the nation ’ s biggest conservative grass-roots organizations , freedomworks , kibbe ’ s efforts helped push the gop rightward and get the tea party off the ground , townhall says .
townhall calls the former house speaker the preeminent gop idea man .
after his quest for the gop presidential nomination in 2012 , gingrich has reemerged as one of the hosts of cnn ’ s latest version of & ldquo ; crossfire . & rdquo ; the columnist , author and tv commentator also has two web sites and a strong following on social media , townhall says .
however , all use of our rss feeds is subject to our user agreement and to the terms and conditions below .
if you have questions or concerns about any of these terms – or if you wish to use an rss feed in a manner inconsistent with any provision below ( e.g. , on a mobile device for commercial purposes or redistribution , or with your own advertising ) – please do not hesitate to contact us at rss @ washingtonpost.com.
we will be happy to discuss your ideas and to work with you to try to meet your requests .
we may limit , suspend , or terminate your access to and use of our rss feeds at any time at our sole discretion.we retain all ownership and other rights in the rss content , and in any and all washington post logos and trademarks used in connection with the rss feeds .
if you have questions about use of our rss feeds , or to request our permission to deviate from the requirements set forth above , including using our feeds in mobile products or on any mobile platform , please contact us at rss @ washingtonpost.com.
by ben levisohnthe latest trend in emerging-market exchange-traded funds is to leave out the biggest countries .
but the focus should be on companies , not countries .
by randall w. forsythnot exactly the same as the old fed boss .
under yellen , the markets are less likely to be fooled again .
by jack houghwith significant ownership in and near the much ballyhooed wolfcamp shale field , the independent oil and gas producer should reward investors .
by john kimelmanpublications weigh in on the megabank on the eve of its earnings report .
ssd demand , improving product mix make sandisk a buy : stifel the big storypolicy & regulationthe latest news on government policy and regulations .
we 've gathered all the best — or at least the most entertaining — web scraps of the day and posted them right here in our trusty blog log , aka your virtual coffee break .
erase your image of vincent van gogh as a mad genius .
yes , he did cut off one of his ears .
but when it came to painting , the 19th-century dutch artist was often thoughtful and methodical .
govt orders tanesco to act on embezzlement of 162m / - na the guardian reporter the government has ordered tanzania electricity supply company ( tanesco ) to drag to court all persons involved in the embezzlement of 162m / - that was set to compensate evictees who were moved to make room for the firm ’ s infrastructures in the region .
is too much youth a bad thing ? ovechkin carries olympic torchadam oates and hockey sticksthree rookies beat the odds anchorage snowmachiner claims 106 mph on record knik river open-water run fri oct 11 , 2013 03 : 06 am edt anchorage snowmachiner hits 106 mph on record knik river open-water run thu oct 10 , 2013 11 : 06 pm edt body of missing cordova man found in deep bay area thu oct 10 , 2013 11 : 06 pm edt fire in the sky signals first weekend of fur rendezvous sun feb 24 , 2013 05 : 06 am est fur rondy has a new queen fri jan 18 , 2013 07 : 06 am est rondy has a new queen fri jan 18 , 2013 05 : 06 am est why obama , boehner continue to butt heads on the government shutdown wed oct 9 , 2013 1 : 06 pm edt a windy wake-up tue oct 8 , 2013 11 : 06 pm edt property tax deadline nears fri oct 11 , 2013 05 : 06 am edt plows hit denali , but not for long fri oct 11 , 2013 05 : 06 am edt causeways to be named for millers fri oct 11 , 2013 05 : 06 am edt denali commission to host juneau listening session sat apr 2 , 2011 12 : 00 pm edt jpd arrests juneau man after accident mon mar 28 , 2011 01 : 06 am edt committee bill limits scope of alaska oil tax cut tue mar 29 , 2011 03 : 06 am edt rep : no ethical conflict in firefighter bill tue mar 29 , 2011 03 : 06 am edt sc immigration law to return to judge thu oct 10 , 2013 11 : 25 pm edt the huddle ’ s picks of the week thu oct 10 , 2013 7 : 25 pm edt lawnmower man recognized by california congressman thu oct 10 , 2013 7 : 25 pm edt report : mt .
pleasant man robbed , shoved in trunk of his vehicle thu oct 10 , 2013 5 : 25 pm edt paul finebaum : how alabama wooed spurrier sat oct 5 , 2013 7 : 25 pm edt midlands parents on a mission to help find a cure for daughter ’ s disease fri oct 11 , 2013 01 : 25 am edt hope ?
shutdown / debt talks but no resolution yet thu oct 10 , 2013 9 : 25 pm edt case challenges state ’ s ’ stand your ground ’ laws thu oct 10 , 2013 9 : 25 pm edt pluff the turtle released thu oct 10 , 2013 7 : 25 pm edt police looking for men in gas station robbery thu oct 10 , 2013 5 : 25 pm edt nrc shuts down ; oconee inspectors still working fri oct 11 , 2013 01 : 25 am edt haley bests sheheen in latest fundrasing report thu oct 10 , 2013 7 : 25 pm edt untamed lowcountry gallery thu oct 10 , 2013 11 : 25 pm edt horry county to consider ’ defensible space ’ around new development thu oct 10 , 2013 3 : 25 pm edt the capital bujumbura for suspected links to an islamist extremist group , he " on sunday i was walking around the city , i saw the magnificent bujumbura cathedral , i took pictures of it and a policeman arrived , " this man is suspected of having links to terrorism , as we would reinforce the au peacekeeping mission in somalia to counter the shebaab final fantasy vi is coming to android and ios .
here ’ s why it is the best of the series .
senator ron wyden ( d-ore . ) and rep. jim sensenbrenner ( r-wisc . ) warn not all nsa & ldquo ; reform & rdquo ; proposals are created equally .
post reporter : here ’ s why we refused the nsa ’ s demand to censor the names of prism companies the six most outlandish tech gimmicks used by tv news obama administration decides nsa spying is ‘ essential , ’ but oversight of nsa is not justice scalia uses the internet .
and he thinks you people on it are narcissists .
the switchboard : the fbi has only seized 26,000 of the 600,000 bitcoins silk road raked in the switch psa : our timothy b. lee is not the same as timothy berners-lee truckers park vehicles to protest overload fees na devota mwachang 'a he said the government ’ s decision to abolish the five percent allowable weight tolerance for overloaded cargo at weighbridges was just and it will stand by it because it is as per the law .
a timeline for the debt-ceiling crisisour complete debt ceiling explainerjanet yellen in her own wordswhat the shutdown is really abouthow the government shutdown worksobamacare : what you need to know fishers breaks ground on new development thu oct 10 , 2013 7 : 12 pm edt nearly a dozen mailboxes vandalized thu oct 10 , 2013 5 : 12 pm edt risky sex act possible in ohio kidnapper ’ s death fri oct 11 , 2013 03 : 12 am edt © 2013 indexmundi - all rights reservedsend a message to 1stheadlines how the us is interrogating a qaeda suspectnew york timesoct 7 , 2013written bycharlie savagemr .
ruqai is being detained as a combatant under the international laws of war , as triggered by the 2001 congressional authorization to use force against al qaeda and its allies.personalization in may , often called mary ’ s month in popular devotion , many parishes and catholic schools participate in the crowning of mary .
the crowning of mary is an annual tradition at holy rosary school in duluth and is celebrated in the cathedral of our lady on may 1 .
this year ’ s crowning was part of the regular 9 a.m.
wednesday school mass .
after the crowning of the statue , it was returned to the holy rosary school in a procession by all of the students of the school .
st. john ’ s school in duluth celebrated the may crowning at the children ’ s mass on may 8 .
eighth-graders elle christian , sam wehr and flannery glisczinski of holy rosary school in duluth placed third and are the alternates for the national competition in washington , d.c. , after competing may 4 at the state competition for national history day at the university of minnesota .
she had interviewed and worked with wasp liz strohfus to create her project and received an honorable mention for her performance .
thursday , october 10 , 2013out !
all of you out out out ! ! !
us general in charge of nuclear missiles to be firedstraits timesair force to fire general in charge of nuclear missilesal jazeera americasee all 84 sourcesrelated nuclear weapons a global call for victims ’ rights to be upheld in prijedor , bosnia and herzegovina street-level to get the latest weather conditions .
use the control 6 . to stop or animate satellite or radar imagery , hit keyser gearing up for second annual octoberfest thu oct 10 , 2013 7 : 20 pm edt towboat restoration underway fri oct 11 , 2013 01 : 20 am edt chili cookoff ready to heat up weekend fri oct 11 , 2013 01 : 20 am edt piccard ’ s former partner saw death fri oct 11 , 2013 01 : 20 am edt sentencing delayed for bank ex-employee in beebe thu oct 10 , 2013 11 : 07 am edt conway , developer to rework airport site as shopping hub by 2017 thu oct 10 , 2013 11 : 07 am edt & sbquo ; the issue of access and entitlement to arable land on repatriation , resettlement and reinsertion of idps and refugees in the ministry the commission , said his team faced the difficult task of reconciling the law & sbquo ; we have , on the one hand , the law protecting the occupant " on the other , we have a returnee who could not come to " some houses were sold by the government , how you can tell cassava field on the border of ntahangwa river in bujumbura .
a group of returnees aboard a unhcr lorry .
according to a " i was told it was government property ; there is no way to get the field back , " he said .
" another plot i owned is now occupied by priests. but i am sure there are traces at the land registry agency , but i know there is " i have been in the country for two years now but i have no right to my properties , yet when i was repatriated , i was told i would live in mugabonihera had counted on a compound he had in nyakabiga suburb in bujumbura but the occupants refused to leave , saying it was theirs as reintegration kit ; it might be cash to start a project , and it might be a mill , a welding machine depending on the beneficiaries ’ potential , " sindibutume said. returnees born in exile - are " culturally and linguistically alienated and this blitzer was speaking about the repeated glitches in the program 's website when he said the following : naturally , a lot of people thought blitzer was calling for the delay of obamacare .
rnc chair reince priebus , for instance , crowed about the apparent conversion : blitzer ultimately tweeted a response to the mayhem , saying he was only talking about the website : and this slo-mo implosion will never be resolved as long as the doj and sec treat the criminals responsible as " catch and release . " no _ dash _ american : both parties are in the pockets of these " respectable corpratists " hate the game , not the player . if you don 't like the way things are going you don 't just throw out the players and expect the next set of players to act any better , you change the rules of the game .
jp morgan should be a bank of the past and a nonentity , but the government in all of its wisdom bailed it out . now they are ready to throw the government to the wolves as are their repub buddies .
e. voting for any politician with an " r " or a " d " behind their title .
a visit to a sanctuary for mistreated pachyderms in the mae taeng valley .
toronto ’ s edgewalk around the cn tower is a hands-free urban ad & shy ; ven & shy ; ture in the sky .
it ’ s hot in tucson , but that dry desert air is perfect for stargazing .
if you ’ re feeling frugal but still want to be fashionable , london ’ s thrift shops are full of great designer bargains . ’ antarctica : empire of the penguins ’ is the latest attraction at the orlando theme park .
the gardens — and gulls — of new england ’ s isles of shoals the bellmoor inn in rehoboth beach , del . , offers elegance with a friendly , beachy touch .
hgtv ’ s novogratz couple adds pop and art to the bungalow hotel .
" we believe that the catholic community needs to be more than ever a source of clear moral vision and effective action .
we are called to be the " salt of the earth " and " light of the world " in the words of the scriptures ( cf .
mt 5 : 13-16 ) .
this task belongs to every believer and every parish .
it cannot be assigned to a few or simply delegated to diocesan or national structures .
the pursuit of justice and peace is an essential part of what makes a parish catholic . "
cal ripken responds to jayson werth about nats manager job pork and plantains together on the same sandwich at sophie ’ s cuban how bright is your holiday spirit ?
fri nov 30 , 2012 5 : 06 pm est soldiers , family and friends gather for dedication at jber sat nov 17 , 2012 05 : 06 am est begich : government shutdown ’ totally unnecessary ’ thu oct 3 , 2013 1 : 06 pm edt prof ibrahim lipumba briefs journalists in dar es salaam yesterday on decision by his party , chadema and nccr-mageuzi to drop plans to hold countrywide demonstrations .
( photo : selemani mpochi ) prof lipumba was speaking on behalf of the other party chairmen , freeman mbowe of chama cha demokrasia na maendeleo ( chadema ) and james mbatia of nccr-mageuzi .
according to prof lipumba , the bill has several pitfalls that need to be rectified before the signing . & ldquo ; first , the president ’ s office is yet to receive the bill , though it is possible that the national assembly has already sent it .
but if the bill has not reached the president ’ s office it is obvious that it is not signed , & rdquo ; noted a monday statement issued by the state house .
president kikwete on friday extended an invite to opposition leaders to sit and negotiate the controversial bill to end the current logjam that has threatened to derail the new constitution-making process .
in his end of the month address to the nation , the president told political parties to bury the hatchet and threats of taking to the streets in protest when the matter can be resolved in parliament .
kikwete advises coast to reserve area for construction of industries na amri lugungulo the president who was on his fifth leg inspection of development projects in coast region , on tuesday laid the foundation stone for the plant in an effort to curb malaria .
we apply the same " prove it to me ” logic to all the outerwear we carry .
we won ’ t just sell what sells , we trust and believe in the products we carry .
inquest in death of canadian man in grenada set to begin today : lawyer inquest in death of canadian man in grenada hits roadblocks on first day : lawyer st .
george ’ s , grenada – a coroner ’ s inquest into the death of a canadian man who prosecutors say was fatally beaten by police officers in grenada ’ s capital has hit some roadblocks on its first day , a lawyer in the case said monday .
the lawyer for one of five officers accused in the death of oscar bartholomew read the rest of the entry ( 9 / 30 / 2013 1 : 30 : 30 pm ) we gave michael lee a camera , and this is the result .
washington ’ s eserves lead a late charge but it ’ s not enough as brooklyn wins in overtime , 111-106 .
as the wizards head to his home country , nene remains amazed by how he made it to the nba .
lebron james , dwyane wade face fire and fog in video when his career hit a low point , josh childress got his degree .
now , he wants back in nba with the wizards .
sidelined with a strained right hip flexor , the rookie out of georgetown has yet to practice with the wizards .
the wizards have given emeka okafor permission to rehab and recover from herniated disk in his neck in new york .
owner of the wizards has run out of patience and is emphatic the team has the pieces to deliver a postseason berth to its fan base .
entering his fourth season as owner of the wizards , ted leonsis is seeking a payoff for his investment in the form of a playoff berth .
once bradley beal reminded himself to have fun on the court as a rookie , his play improved for the wizards .
derrick rose is ready : " it could be my mom on the court , she 's going to get killed " govt not to see ‘ big results now ’ in forestry sector if ... na correspondent the tanzanian forest industries federation ( tfif ) , the country ’ s main stakeholders in the forest has faulted the big result now ( brn ) implementation in the forestry sector .
according to a document of which the guardian has a copy these stakeholders are of the opinion that instead of the government realizing brn the same government may end up realizing ’ small result now ( srn ) ’ if good methods would not be implemented .
respective stakeholders under the umbrella of tfif are not against the realization of brn but very much against how the said brn will be realized , the concluded .
click on any of the names below for a full information antarctica has the cleanest air in the world allowing air quality monitoring with a reliable baseline .
seeing our government and our creditworthiness held hostage to the demands of a right-wing minority is infuriating .
it ’ s also heartbreaking .
writes about politics in a twice-a-week column and on the postpartisan blog .
obama has finally decided he ’ s had enough of a politics based on & ldquo ; extortion & rdquo ; and & ldquo ; threats . & rdquo ; he has signaled that he is happy to negotiate , just not under a gun held by the most irresponsible elements of the gop .
he is exhausted , and rightly so , by the fecklessness of boehner , who told democrats early on that he would not shut the government down wounded man who turned up at oxford waffle house dies of gunshot received in georgia thu oct 10 , 2013 10 : 06 pm edt get ready for autumn ! !
mon oct 7 , 2013 06 : 06 am edt getting chilly overnight sun oct 6 , 2013 8 : 06 pm edt insurance premiums increasing in the wiregrass thu oct 10 , 2013 6 : 06 pm edt dothan dog park construction to begin soon wed oct 9 , 2013 10 : 06 pm edt want to get into politics ?
huntsville committee of 100 to hold training sessions thu oct 10 , 2013 6 : 06 pm edt journalists who criticized him are in prison ; some of his earlier would-be kagame in september 1994 , just two months after the tutsi forces of the rwandan patriotic front ( rpf ) had defeated the hutu genocidaires and captured the invited to join u.s. undersecretary of state tim wirth and u.s. ambassador to rpf .
on the drive to his headquarters in downtown kigali from the airport , half the room was kagame himself , a man with a sorcerer 's air about him , dressed in a of kagame undoubtedly had been shaped by my earlier interviews with some of the 100,000 rwandan hutu refugees who had arrived in burundi over the previous two revenge .
and the united states and the u.n. preferred to believe that the tutsi the rwandan border .
at night , we heard gunfire from rwanda .
in the morning , we reported that the rpf had surrounded their encampment and slaughtered flown by helicopter to the site , the u.s. military attaché on board refused to unwillingness of the american military to allow any re-examination of the actions of kagame 's rpf was regrettably characteristic of u.s. policy then and now .
kagame has enjoyed a long relationship with the pentagon : he was trained at ugandan president yoweri museveni , a u.s. ally .
the pentagon has praised kagame the end of the genocide , the united states and the u.n. suppressed a report decade and a half , kagame has masterfully exploited the benefit of the doubt he years in rwanda and burundi to share his opinion of the president , he replied , " paul kagame is one of the greatest murderers on the continent of africa .
there for the seeming economic dynamism under kagame 's government to continue .
but we the charismatic and omnipresent venezuelan president died march 5 at the age of 58 .
she became a household name as the independent-minded divorcee with two daughters on the sitcom & ldquo ; one day at a time . & rdquo ; carolyn hax & # 32 ; he is tired of apologizing for not reciprocating an expensive anniversary gift .
carolyn hax : is there good in apologizing to a wronged ex ?
miss manners : kin who don ’ t like kids can be left off list do a favor to the couple who remark on all the misbehaving children — and thus make gatherings miserable .
it ’ s not pretty , but it is practical : bribery has been known to avert tantrums .
her fiance has revealed to her that he has a tickling fetish , and she ’ s not sure how she feels about it .
their son ’ s demeanor has changed for the worse recently , and they wonder if it has to do with his fiancee .
a 13-year-old lab might be suffering from a degenerative disease .
cat ’ s respiratory problem is difficult to diagnose ; tail is causing a dog to suffer ; a $ 450 vet bill to treat a rat .
discussion group | carolyn taps into her inbox , so you can be hax , too .
how to stop the bullying child and build up the bullied one .
but you can draw a line in the sand with overbearing in-laws .
momspeak | in hoping the next stage of parenthood will be better , parents can miss the point of childhood .
burundi : non louées , les belles maisons appauvrissent les riches ceux qui se sont endettés pour construire de belles maisons pour les expatriés , dont la moitié sont partis ces derniers cinq ans , ne trouvent plus de locataires .
ils sont contraints de vendre ou de reconstruire dans les quartiers moins chers où logent la majorité de leurs compatriotes .
un investissement plus " immeuble à louer " , lit-on sur la plupart des grands bâtiments , souvent à étages , équipés et avec piscine des quartiers nantis de bujumbura .
il s ’ agit notamment de kiriri qui offre une vue panoramique sur toute la ville et sur le lac tanganyika et de rohero connu depuis longtemps comme l ’ un des quartiers des plus sécurisés de la capitale burundaise .
depuis près de deux ans , la plupart de ces maisons ne trouvent pas de locataires .
elles avaient été construites lors du retour à la paix et les élections générales de 2005 .
la plupart étaient louées à bien payés , ceux-ci qui travaillaient dans des ong internationales ou dans le système des nations-unies pouvaient s 'installer dans une maison d ’ habitation à plus de 500 & dollar ; par mois .
mais plus de la moitié de ces expatriés , venus surtout dans le cadre de la démocratisation ( depuis 2004 et 2005 ) et de la consolidation de la paix , sont partis ces cinq dernières années .
même le bureau de l 'onu les habitations des quartiers chics ont , depuis lors , du mal à trouver des locataires .
la plupart des burundais préfèrent les maisons des quartiers modestes ( nyakabiga , ngagara , bwiza , mutakura , kanyosha , … ) où le loyer coûte cette situation pénalise ceux qu ’ on croyait riches .
" voilà près d ’ une année que je recherche un locataire .
le dernier occupant de ma maison a déménagé en septembre 2012 pour retourner en europe .
il me payait mensuellement 1 000 & dollar ; sur lesquels je prélevais 600 pour payer mon crédit bancaire , dit un vieux retraité , propriétaire d ’ une maison à deux niveaux .
le reste me servait pour la survie .
aujourd ’ hui , la banque menace de vendre ma maison et je risque de crever de faim . "
les nombreux commissionnaires qu ’ il a dépêchés avec 500 & dollar ; à la clé s 'ils lui trouvaient un locataire n ’ ont pas réussi .
" les locataires sont hostiles à une offre qui excède 300 000 fbu ( 200 & dollar ; ) .
c ’ est normal , car la misère frappe tout le monde : tous les prix flambent , le taux de chômage est élevé pendant que la la plupart des propriétaires , souvent des retraités , de l 'armée fréquemment , avaient contracté des crédits bancaires pour construire ces maisons .
ils se retrouvent pauvres et désespérés .
" je croyais ainsi m ’ offrir une retraite dorée , mais ma richesse est devenue la source de mes ennuis .
pour avoir beaucoup investi , la banque m ’ a déjà adressé une lettre de mise en demeure et menace de vendre ma maison .
ceux qui ont construit dans les quartiers modestes sont à " notre rôle , explique un chargé des opérations dans une banque commerciale , n ’ est pas de vendre les maisons de nos clients .
la vente aux enchères intervient en dernier recours .
c ’ est pourquoi , nos clients devraient bien mûrir leurs pour construire , certains ont fort travaillé .
d ’ autres ont volé dans les caisses de l ’ état , selon l ’ olucome ( organisation de lutte contre la corruption et les malversations économiques ) .
mais , leur problème est révélateur de la mentalité de ceux qui ont beaucoup d 'argent : au lieu d ’ investir pour le bien-être de leurs concitoyens en proposant des logements décents à des prix raisonnables , ils se sont lancés dans des opérations immobilières pour faire payer les expatriés .
ils oublient que ceux-ci , certes paient plus , mais pour un séjour limité , alors que loger les burundais est un investissement d 'avenir. plusieurs locataires à la fois .
d ’ autres les revendent aux plus riches pour construire dans les quartiers populaires .
quant à la plupart de ceux qui construisent aujourd ’ hui , ils évitent les grands immeubles qui ne trouvent pas de locataires .
" les propriétaires de ces maisons devraient changer de mentalités et indexer les prix au coût de la vie .
le pays est pauvre et certains mangent une seule fois par jour alors qu ’ ils étaient habitués à trois fois .
pourquoi eux n ’ accepteraient-ils pas de réduire le coût du loyer ? " , propose un membre de parcem ( paroles et actions pour le réveil des consciences et l ’ évolution des mentalités ) .
il est impératif de s ’ ajuster .
" les nationaux , même riches préfèrent un loyer peu cher afin d ’ épargner et se construire leur propre logement .
d ’ autres craignent d ’ être pris pour des orgueilleux " , précise oscar commissionnaires de bujumbura .
" souvent , il leur est pénible de mettre la maison à 700 & dollar ; , quand le locataire précédent payait 1000 .
mais , c ’ est mieux que de la laisser vide durant toute une année , estime-t-il .
pourquoi mourir de faim ou voir sa maison vendue aux enchères , alors qu ’ elle coûte des centaines de how do i find out about catholicism ? one of the best ways is to contact a catholic parish near you to let them know that you are interested in finding out more about the catholic faith .
you will be invited to join with others like yourself as you inquire into what " being catholic " is all about : who we are , what we believe , how we live our lives , how we pray , and more .
how can i discern my vocation to marriage , priesthood , or religious life ?
that may be understandable , although not entirely so as there are persistent complaints on how heslb handles the issuance of the loans .
if that were indeed to be the case , any reason to wonder why some of our teachers , etc . , are associated with lack of commitment to the profession ?
if indeed improving the standard of education and training is one of the priorities of brn , it would be a contradiction if we fail to extend loans to big numbers of those eligible .
une stratégie unique qui englobe pour la première fois l ’ aide humanitaire , la coopération technique et financière , les mesures de politique économique et commerciale et la coopération avec les pays de l ’ est : ce tournant important a été salué aussi bien par le parlement que par l ’ opinion publique , soulignent le directeur de la ddc martin dahinden et marie-gabrielle ineichen-fleisch , secrétaire d ’ etat et directrice du seco , dans le rapport annuel 2012 sur la coopération internationale de la suisse qui vient de sortir de presse .
at least one of the victims - whose identities are not yet known - was the brutality of the killings is feeding fears that a new rebellion is been washing up on the banks of the river ruzizi , close to the border with dr the authorities said the corpses may be linked to last week 's attack in the during the conflict , both president nkurunziza and mr rwasa led mainly hutu set up a power-sharing government followed by elections in 2005 .
commentary : narco-politics : how mexico got there and how it can get out the bollore group was fined by a court in ouagadougou for failing to ship in the turbine for the komsilga on time . ( ... )
president of the association des entreprises japonaises and member of the conseil ( ... )
usi un dispositivo mobile ?
vai a m.huffingtonpost.com per huffpost mobile .
ancora una emergenza nel canale di sicilia : un barcone è in gravi difficoltà e si è capovolto .
250 persone erano a bordo .
avvistati morti ( diretta ) la transizione al digitale è , per chi viene da storie e tradizioni antiche , è faccenda complessa , ma se ci si pongono le domande giuste si è a metà strada nella ricerca delle soluzioni .
ci piacerebbe che tutti i nostri interlocutori , siano professionali , industriali e - perché no ? - politici , accettassero di fare almeno una parte di questa strada con noi : se condividessimo almeno le domande , poi anche eventuali risposte diverse sarebbero tutte utili alla ricerca della soluzione - o meglio , delle soluzioni .
mettiamo la costituzione nell 'agenda del paese , del suo riscatto , del suo nuovo inizio .
facciamo dei suoi contenuti di fondo il programma di una diversa qualità della politica .
la carta costituzionale è la via maestra e dirlo sabato in tanti e diversi avrà il senso di un incontro , di un luogo forte e vero da cui ripartire .
l 'obiettivo è scontare i servizi sociali in casa e avere l 'agibilità politica .
tutt 'altro che un finale eroico .
forse fiuta tale deriva ingloriosa se improvvisamente ritrova la verve per le dichiarazioni ad effetto e dice : " mi vogliono far marcire in carcere come la timoshenko " .
ma dura poco .
sono solo gli ultimi lampi in una notte destinata a diventare sempre più scura .
quello che noi invece possiamo fare , è ricordare questo mostro per quello che è stato : un assassino , un essere che fino all 'ultimo non ha avuto un rimorso , non un pentimento .
e allora chi lo osanna , chi lo chiama " perseguitato " io non lo rispetto e sarò sempre pronto a condannarlo e a combatterlo con le armi della legalità , della democrazia e della memoria .
il reato di clandestinità è certamente odioso , ma dare la percezione del " liberi tutti " è un eccesso speculare e contrario .
e se vogliamo raccontarci la verità , non esiste un solo paese tra quelli civili che non abbia una normativa stringente sul tema dell 'immigrazione clandestina .
ecco perché il governo e il particolare il pd - che nell 'immaginario comune , paga una tara storica sul tema , non devono esporre l 'italia al rischio di venire bollata dai trafficanti di uomini come la terra del lassismo e delle frontiere di marzapane .
il premio nobel , da che mondo è mondo , è un premio ad personam , quindi la possibilità che venissero premiate collaborazioni scientifiche da 4000 persone ciascuna era quasi impossibile .
ma perché non sognare ?
è evidente come questo premio sia il coronamento di un 'impresa scientifica lunga quasi 50 anni .
nel 1964 , per la prima volta , si era parlato di un bosone attraverso il quale è possibile dare massa alle particelle descritte nel modello standard senza sconvolgere i principi base della teoria stessa .
trovo sgradevole la frase " l 'avevo detto io ! " , anche perché il ruolo di cassandra è francamente antipatico , ma nel caso delle vicende libiche degli ultimi anni , mi è difficile resistere alla tentazione di pronunciarla .
in libia le cose stanno diversamente rispetto agli altri paesi dell 'area : la libia non è l 'egitto , e nemmeno la tunisia e le nostre categorizzazioni si sono rivelate fallaci .
con il suo tipico stile narrativo breve , chiaro ed essenziale , ci porta nelle piccole cittadine di provincia dell 'ontario , ci fa conoscere ed amare i suoi personaggi , perlopiù femminili , introducendoci nella loro intimità che ci viene descritta con un 'attenta e delicata introspezione psicologica .
in quello che scrive non c 'è mai retorica , ma dialoghi ben precisi e " la sua scrittura si basa esclusivamente sul piacere di narrare " .
attivista per i diritti delle persone lgbt , deputato di sel inizia la grande battaglia per conquistare la segreteria del pd ed è subito evidente che i candidati son tutti maschi , che all 'interno dello scacchiere del partitone le donne sembrano schiacciate dall 'ostensione dei muscoli politici dei loro leader senza avere alcuna capacità di emergere , se non in posizioni cadette .
la speranza è che questo emendamento possa essere assunto senza esitazioni come una soluzione bipartisan , senza che una parte della maggioranza pretenda di piantare la propria bandiera su uno spazio di ritrovata serenità e senza che l 'altra si ostini nella difesa di un provvedimento che può e deve essere migliorato .
alitalia è un condensato di tutto quanto c 'è di sbagliato nel modo in cui la nostra politica interviene nell 'economia .
ci sono in giro aziende , italiane e straniere , capaci di trasportare passeggeri in ogni luogo facendo pagare a chi vola il costo del biglietto e non a tutta la comunità .
quanto sta avvenendo è contrario alle regole comunitarie ; commissario alla concorrenza joaquim almunia , se ci sei batti un colpo o taci per sempre .
eppure con la storia dei fagiolini pagati 80 euro al chilo , con lo stupore di quel " ma vi pare possibile ? " gridato alla stampa , la pascale cerca di fare la cosa più semplice e al tempo stesso più complicata per una donna nella sua condizione : passare dall 'altra parte , scavalcare il castello dorato di arcore ed immergersi nel regno della normalità .
basterebbe seguire la strada indicata dai padri costituenti nel 1946 quando la prima sottocommissione per la redazione della costituzione stabilì , approvando un ordine del giorno di dossetti e moro , il principio del riconoscimento giuridico dei partiti politici e dell 'attribuzione ad essi di compiti costituzionali .
io ci sarò al corteo del 12 ottobre .
perché per rispettare il dettato costituzionale bisogna disobbedire alla sua lettera e incalzare la sua vocazione scandalosa .
bisogna mettere a soqquadro il campo e non smettere mai di cercare nuovi strumenti per garantire l 'accesso all 'uguaglianza ed estendere i diritti .
ci permettiamo di chiederle una valutazione sull 'opportunità di interessarsi alla vicenda che riguarda alcuni attivisti di greenpeace , incarcerati dopo una manifestazione pacifica in una piattaforma petrolifera nel mar artico .
vicenda che rischia di danneggiare l 'immagine non solo di gazprom ma anche delle società che con essa intrattengono rapporti commerciali .
eni , da sempre leader nel settore dell 'energia e partner ultradecennale di gazprom , ha messo in campo negli ultimi anni una strategia vincente di comunicazione .
crediamo che non sfugga anche a eni che la gravità della vicenda rischia di vanificare anni e anni di comunicazione del settore energetico .
i nodi vengono al pettine , sempre .
si è visto per berlusconi : la condanna definitiva cambia lo scenario .
succede la stessa cosa per i 5stelle : grillo ha raccolto milioni di voti a destra e a manca ma ormai lui e i suoi fanno riferimento a valori diversi .
onorevoli e meet-sono up più vicini alla sinistra , grillo e casaleggio più vicini ad una versione italiana della proposta di marine le pen .
difficilmente si tornerà indietro .
direttore generale istituto di alti studi in geopolitica e scienze ausiliarie , condirettore della rivista geopolitica purtroppo , il paese nordafricano assomiglia sempre più a uno " stato fallito " , una nuova somalia dominata da " signori della guerra " e culla ideale per l 'estremismo e il terrorismo .
una nuova somalia - questa è la cosa più preoccupante per noi - a pochi passi dall 'italia , e da cui dipendiamo in discreta misura per il nostro approvvigionamento energetico .
non è soltanto un problema economico o ambientale , è anche e soprattutto un problema sanitario : installare un pozzo estrattivo a 400 metri di distanza dalle abitazioni , in cui vivono famiglie con bambini piccoli , è semplicemente inconcepibile .
una partita molto più rilevante delle schermaglie e fibrillazioni sull 'imu .
dignità , libertà , diritti sono aspetti essenziali di quella crescita civile che è la condizione necessaria di quella economica : il governo letta non potrà più " scusarsi " per decenni di ritardi tra vuoti legislativi , stucchevoli discussioni sulla natura più o meno " divisiva " di certi temi , e leggi sbagliate come la bossi-fini .
quale timoschenko .
doveva morire da grande caimano , sta finendo da borghese piccolo piccolo priebke è morto .
a condannarlo ci ha pensato la storia e ci penseranno le sue vittime il nobel ad alice munro , maestra delle storie brevi contemporanee " mi faranno marcire in galera come la timoshenko " agflo sfogo di berlusconi con gli eurodeputati pdl servizi sociali con dudùansai legali del cav al lavoro per evitare l ' " umiliazione " di un lavoro in comunità ( foto ) gli uomini-partito fuggono dal nazarenoansarenzi preoccupato : vuoto all 'organizzazione , lavorano per cuperlo via libera all 'aumento da 300 milioni per alitalia .
sì anche da airfranceagfsarmi : " non useremo i risparmi postali " " non rinnego il mio passato " reutersprima di morire il boia delle ardeatine ha lasciato una lettera testamento ( foto ) pd primo partito , m5s in crescita ( foto ) skytg24i sondaggi ixè e tecnè skytg24 fico diserta un incontro di attivisti m5slapresse " assurdo che vietino l 'ingresso alle telecamere " gli 8 manifesti di renzi ( foto ) facebookma la rete boccia lo slogan " vincere " perché è ...
presidente , lavoratore .
socialmente utilelapressedepositata al tribunale di milano la richiesta di pene alternative per il cav : servizi sociali " silvio faccia come socrate , beva la cicuta e dedichi la sua vita agli altri " ansaintervista huffpost all 'ex pdl alfonso papa cav e indulto - il pdl presenta una proposta per salvarloansarispondono cancellieri e manconi con disegni di legge che escludono silvio dalla clemenza " silvio mi faceva i grattini per conquistarmi .
ma niente sesso " ( foto ) ansala capone racconta ai magistrati di bari la sua verità ( verbali ) eurosur sarebbe dovuto entrare in funzione 2 giorni prima del naufragioansae ora è già a corto di soldi .
tutti i fallimenti dell 'europa ( foto , video ) il decreto sul femminicidio è leggem5s , lega e sel non partecipano al voto da venezia a siracusa studenti in piazza contro il decreto scuolaansatensioni a milano con la polizia ( foto ) a malala il premio sakharov. i talebani : la uccideremo ( foto video ) lapressedal suo diario : " non voglio che il mio futuro sia cucinare e fare figli " di ( lorenzo bianchi ) l 'accusa al presidente di " attentato alla costituzione e alto tradimento " agfsul blog di grillo un post di paolo becchi alitalia , per lupi l 'operazione poste italiane " non è aiuto di stato " reutersma giorgio squinzi non la pensa così " berlusconi mi telefonò dal bagno " ( foto ) ansatop sui retroscena del litigio con fini raccontati da sallusti la lega strizza l 'occhio a grillo .
il senatùr : " battaglie comuni contro gli immigrati " ansa se a lampedusa vince la burocrazia .
jacopo fo : " ho offerto tende , mi è stato detto di mandare un fax " ansa leggi gli articoli che potrebbero piacerti e guarda quello che condividono i tuoi amici .
" nessun cioccolato è così buono " ( foto , video ) coordownappuntamento in 200 piazze italiane per i diritti dei down orgasmi ( foto , video ) magnolia picturesda charlotte gainsbourg a uma thurman , l 'orgasmo secondo lars von trier speranza per l 'alzheimer e morbo di parkinsonadele sarnodue nuovi farmaci agiscono su una proteina " storta " ( foto ) " mamma non c 'è lavoro , emigro " .
ma quando tornano ecco che succede ( video ) youtubetop su due husky imitano il modo di camminare di un bebè per non mettergli paura ( video foto ) kenji chen youtubee il web impazzisce : più di 500.000 visite su you tube in una settimana pin up vestite con abiti di latte ( foto ) jaroslav wieczorkiewicz / arumlight studio silvio ai servizi sociali .
la rete se lo immagina così ( foto ) twittertop su " fotografare i cibi rovina l 'appetito " .
a dieta con instagram ( foto ) brigham young university il ritorno dei morti viventi ( foto ) the walking deadi 22 horror che hanno fatto storia viaggi nello spazio .
nel 2014 in orbita i primi turisti ( foto ) omaggiiniziativa di richard branson .
già 769 prenotazioni è il cane più felice del mondo ?
( video ) youtubee non perdetevi queste foto due sorpese dallo spazio ( foto ) luca parmitano / twitteri nuovi scatti di luca parmitano insulti e basso share , subito stop per radio belva di cruciani-parenzo ( video ) agf fortune : marina berlusconi tra donne più potenti al mondo ( foto ) ansa newton morì vergine ed era molto più bizzarro di quello che immaginate ( foto ) wikimedia commons : bonhams10 esempi della sua eccentricità ballerina di lap-dance , cocainomane e semi-alcolizzata alla ricerca del principe azzurroomaggi " fucked " di penelope skinner da domani a roma via i velini e virginia raffaele da striscia la notizia .
flop di ascolti ( foto ) lapresse " allarme pesca , il mediterraneo è vicino al collasso ! "
( foto , video ) ocean2012l 'appello di ocean2012 e wwf al parlamento europeo libri erotici " bestiali " .
ecco i racconti " proibiti " , tra draghi e dinosauri ( foto ) amazon the plan , to be announced in a few days , will suspend nonessential aid over morsi ’ s ouster by the military .
atf rejects agent ’ s plan to publish ’ fast and furious ’ book we got our weekly update from joe jordan of nebraska watchdog.org.
this week he talked about rep. lee terry apologizing for comments he made last week in which he said he would continue to take his paycheck while civilian federal workers who are furloughed are going unpaid & hellip ; it wasn ’ t the fact he was taking his paycheck but how he said it and it has motivated democrats to push harder to get a candidate to run against terry in 2014 .
jerry hudson made his weekly appearance to talk about the shutdown of the government and the ww ii veterans who stormed the ww ii memorial in washinton after it was closed on tuesday .
more to the point , petitioning congress to repeal a bad law through formal procedures is not the kind of behavior educated people normally associate with anarchism .
indeed , the hypocrisy of liberals who find it somehow & ldquo ; extreme & rdquo ; for citizens to organize peacefully to overturn a law they consider bad and unjust is a marvel to behold .
the fugitive slave act was once the law of the land .
so was the defense of marriage act .
were those determined to overturn them anarchists ?
the hypocrisy goes deeper though .
yes , obamacare is the law of the land .
but it is president obama — who is legally and constitutionally required to faithfully execute the law — and not republicans who has openly defied it .
he has unilaterally and often with no statutory authority opted to waive and delay the parts of the affordable care act that are politically inconvenient to him ( or that his administration has been too incompetent to implement ) . — jonah goldberg is the author of the tyranny of clichés , now on sale in paperback .
you can write to him by e-mail at goldbergcolumn @ gmail.com , or via twitter @ jonahnro . © 2013 tribune media services , inc .
bay area ’ s resurgent women ’ s roller derby scene ’ less like a show ’ than before thu jun 20 , 2013 4 : 08 pm edt john muir ’ s tree may see new life through cloning thu jun 20 , 2013 12 : 08 pm edt oakland athletics ’ move now on court ’ s timetable rather than mlb ’ s thu jun 20 , 2013 10 : 08 am edt arraignment continued for man accused of fatal hit-and-run in chico thu oct 10 , 2013 04 : 08 am edt second jet at chico airport for conversion to air tanker thu oct 10 , 2013 04 : 08 am edt walk to end alzheimer ’ s event set for saturday in bidwell park thu oct 10 , 2013 04 : 08 am edt governor vetoes bill aimed at streamlining teacher dismissals thu oct 10 , 2013 8 : 08 pm edt green energy entrepreneurs vie for awards , connections at ’ cleantech open ’ in fremont thu oct 10 , 2013 8 : 08 pm edt green energy entrepreneurs vie for awards , connections at ’ cleantech open ’ in fremont fri oct 11 , 2013 12 : 08 am edt a night of botany and booze at livermore ’ s bankhead theater thu oct 10 , 2013 8 : 08 pm edt gunman scare at sjsu forces building lockdown and search , but turns up no suspect thu oct 10 , 2013 8 : 08 pm edt bart unveils ’ fleet of the future ’ model train car / a mon jul 22 , 2013 6 : 08 pm edt oakland zoo brings in new warthogs for breeding / a mon jul 22 , 2013 4 : 08 pm edt man on ’ sole searching ’ mission to run every street in long beach tue aug 13 , 2013 12 : 08 am edt man who jumped off long beach ’ s belmont pier on life support mon aug 12 , 2013 10 : 08 am edt ex-l.a. mayor antonio villaraigosa to be ’ visiting fellow ’ at harvard tue aug 13 , 2013 02 : 08 am edt ’ breaking bad ’ episode dedicated to late calabasas teen kevin cordasco mon aug 12 , 2013 10 : 08 pm edt car-show-themed ’ flash mob ’ expected tuesday in burbank near krispy kreme at empire center mon aug 12 , 2013 8 : 08 pm edt orgerons trojans defeat arizona , 38-31 fri oct 11 , 2013 06 : 08 am edt victim in deadly wreck walked to er for help fri oct 11 , 2013 06 : 08 am edt la steps up prosecution of pot dispensaries fri oct 11 , 2013 04 : 08 am edt ex-teacher arrested for alleged molestation fri oct 11 , 2013 02 : 08 am edt man sentenced to life in prison in gang shooting of baby fri oct 11 , 2013 02 : 08 am edt the video bud selig didn ’ t want oakland a ’ s fans to see thu oct 10 , 2013 6 : 08 pm edt teen struck and killed by metrolink train fri oct 11 , 2013 04 : 08 am edt is dental insurance worth it ?
thu oct 10 , 2013 10 : 08 pm edt trial begins in wilton pot robbery killing fri oct 11 , 2013 04 : 08 am edt man convicted of murder in 2010 rancho cordova shooting fri oct 11 , 2013 12 : 08 am edt stockton city manager : ’ we need new taxes ’ wed oct 2 , 2013 2 : 08 pm edt dozens of homes evacuated in sf bay area wildfire sun sep 8 , 2013 10 : 08 pm edt law will expand use of drug to combat overdoses thu oct 10 , 2013 10 : 08 pm edt governor to decide on slew of gun control bills fri oct 11 , 2013 04 : 09 am edt ’ before i die ’ wall drawing attention in stockton fri oct 11 , 2013 12 : 08 am edt man recently diagnosed with dementia hit and killed by car fri oct 11 , 2013 12 : 08 am edt tarantulas looking for love in all the wrong places thu oct 10 , 2013 10 : 08 pm edt subway in la mesa robbed at gunpoint fri oct 11 , 2013 04 : 09 am edt man fatally struck by motorcycle in fallbrook fri oct 11 , 2013 02 : 08 am edt midterm exam of standings , predictions fri oct 11 , 2013 02 : 08 am edt man gunned down in east oakland fri oct 11 , 2013 04 : 09 am edt mushroom ’ s price plunges as supply soars fri oct 11 , 2013 04 : 09 am edt in a tough market for job seekers , ’ hiring our heroes ’ fair helps vets fri oct 11 , 2013 04 : 09 am edt it ’ s still a hot seller ’ s market fri oct 11 , 2013 04 : 09 am edt say yes to national depression screening day october 11th fri oct 11 , 2013 12 : 08 am edt krissy krissy ’ s back in time now featured in vh1 primetime programming thu oct 10 , 2013 10 : 08 pm edt pair rob woman of gold chain outside walmart in fremont fri oct 11 , 2013 02 : 08 am edt as eliminated by verlander , tigers in game 5 of alds fri oct 11 , 2013 12 : 08 am edt school children pray for malala ’ s nobel win fri oct 11 , 2013 06 : 08 am edt kerry in kl for business summit fri oct 11 , 2013 06 : 08 am edt gunman scare at sjsu forces building lockdown and search , but turns up no suspect fri oct 11 , 2013 02 : 08 am edt hill honors burlingame chaplain as veteran of the year wed oct 9 , 2013 10 : 08 pm edt plans for new downtown healdsburg hotel unveiled thu oct 10 , 2013 10 : 08 pm edt cockroaches are the subject of nightmares for some people .
but for one wisconsin company , they 're a sport .
dish network makes high-definition dvr more appealinghdtv in every home ; expect hot new models to be attainable for average joefar faster than wi-fi , ultrawideband may set the standardreviews of shareware programs : tell your pc a thing or two diedre young is one of 6 finalists vying for online votes to win and be featured in people magazine .
but was the destruction wrought by the 6.3-magnitude earthquake on feb .
22 as bad as it looked in media reports ?
" the way out was blocked by all the bookcases that had fallen over and the broken debris .
the owner said not to worry about breaking anything , just get us out of the shop .
as sally says , i went into ‘ mel-dozer ’ mode and quickly cleared a trail , ” said mel moore , a man who would size up well on an nfl offensive line .
" as i was about to hit the send button , we have had another severe shock , ” chuck ’ s message concluded .
the next thing he heard was a voice in a german-sounding accent asking him if he was ok .
the man helped naughton to the middle of the street .
naughton was bleeding from the back of his head , and his knee was throbbing .
but he was alive .
" imagine standing on something like the ground , which we normally trust , and now it is doing everything it can to knock you down , ” naughton said .
" this one was over as soon as it started — thankfully .
i looked around , and noticed a tall building on every corner and decided it was time to walk to a safer place . ”
the sea ice in mcmurdo sound was finally breaking up to an extent not seen in more than a decade .
all it needed was a good push with a little bit of wind .
" all in all , i probably worked on 50 people , ” berry said .
" we ran out of bandages and splinting material , so a local cop and an intern raided one of the tourist shops and returned with boxes of tea towels and ‘ i love nz ’ pillows .
we used the pillows for soft splints on arms and legs , and made splints out of cardboard and cafe signs — all tied up with tea towels . ”
by the end of tuesday , the moores and the others they had met in victoria square would be joined by about 100 usap people at the cdc , which would become a temporary shelter through the end of the week .
that night everyone was fed and given sleeping bags .
it had taken him about an hour to walk to a medical center off bealey avenue , where one of the out-of-town urologists sewed up his arm while a nurse cleaned all his other scrapes and cuts .
the experience taught naughton that he has little desire to live in an earthquake-prone city , to say the least .
" during wednesday and thursday , our big adventure was going to cdc to get any news , ” said mel moore , mcmurdo supply operations supervisor .
" sally would use our five minutes of allocated computer time to updateher mom , who would in turn updatemy mom .
then we would go to the airport … and get some supplies .
we were just so excited when we were able to purchase a change of clothes so we could do laundry . ”
lynn dormand and her team back at rpsc reviewed nearly a thousand different travel itineraries as they scrambled to reroute people in new zealand , as well as those who would be coming off the ice in the next week or so .
they had re-ticketed more than 500 people at the time of this report .
" i cannot say enough about the raytheon staff [ in christchurch ] , ” said mel moore , as he summed up his story .
" the best way i can put it is that the christchurch we knew is gone , and we have no desire to repeat the experience . "
the ice shelves are as much as 300 meters thick at their seaward edges and they thicken toward the land .
other research on the ice shelves concentrates on determining flow rates to see how quickly ice is moving off the continent , and how rapidly the shelf ice thins from the melting of its underside .
vocations and priestly formation > consecrated life for womenlinkscongregation of divine providence of kentuckyduluth benedictine sistersst .
scholastica monasteryfranciscan sisters of the eucharist carmelite sisters for the aged & infirmdominican sistersof mary mother of the eucharistann arbor , michigandominican sisters of st. cecilianashville , tennesseefranciscan sisters of christian charitysisters of st francis of the martyr st. georgedaughters of st. paul ( the daughters of st. paul are an international congregation of missionary sisters who use the mass media to communicate the gospel of jesus master , the way , truth and life to the world . ) little sisters of the poor vocations and priestly formation > consecrated life for womenmeet our newest entrieson it - the washington post the funds will help it add new security and management features to its software for businesses .
the company teamed up with university researchers to use analytics to combat the diseases .
st kitts-nevis newspaper ordered to pay pm $ 350,000 in defamation suitst kitts & nevis new york , usa -- on a balmy fall sunday evening , as the marquees of new york ’ s times square announced the latest spectacles to grab the attention of locals and tourists alike , a house manager on an aluminum ladder fixed the spacing of the letters announcing that night ’ s headliners at the legendary ...
oas hosts civil registration workshop in st vincentst vincent & the grenadines un secretary-general 's message on the international day of the girl childfeatures china ’ s xi argues case in obama ’ s absence at trade summit a rare visual tour of the reclusive and secretive country.gallery the sister of the exiled prime minister won his old office .
september 27 , 2013 let ’ s start from the beginning the cancer is spreading , people hungry and begging but because of their conditioning no one is moving and no one is helping dog eat dog this is what ’ s happening with the bay men ’ s logwood cutting then squatting isabela and ferdinand ’ s enriching ... ( a ) the higher the rate of pay and the greater the length of service of the employee , the fewer the absences ; ( a ) culpable absenteeism : culpable absenteeism refers to lateness or absence problems for which the employee should be held responsible because the problems are within the employee ’ s power to address and correct ( anonymous , 2004 ) .
for instance an employee who is on sick leave even though he / she is not sick , and can be proven that the employee was not sick is guilty of culpable absenteeism .
the four key types of culpable absenteeism are : ( b ) non-culpable ( innocent ) absenteeism : innocent absenteeism refers to the absence of employees due to illness or injury for reasons beyond the employees ’ control .
innocent absenteeism is not culpable which means that it is blameless .
innocent absenteeism is not subject to disciplinary action but is approached on the basis of identifying and understanding the medical needs of the employee and any restrictions as identified by the employees ’ health care practitioner .
because it is not measured , chronic absenteeism is not acted upon .
like bacteria in a hospital , chronic absenteeism can wreak havoc long before it is discovered .
others are , rashid ismail ( 27 ) , abdallah yusuph hamisi ( 32 ) , salum bakari wadi ( 38 ) ramadhan adamu rajabu ( 26 ) , fadhili adamu rajabu ( 20 ) , abbas muhidini ( 32 ) , ismail chande ( 18 ) , said mawazo ( 21 ) and issa abed ( 21 ) all residents of likokona .
james macpherson | october 11 , 2013 01 : 55 pm est | compare 01 : 55 pm est10 : 03 am est and 01 : 55 pm est10 : 03 am est the spill happened in a remote area in the northwest corner of the state .
the nearest home is a half-mile away , and tesoro says no water sources were contaminated , no wildlife was hurt and no one was injured .
" protection and care of the environment are fundamental to our core values , and we deeply regret any impact to the landowner , " tesoro ceo greg goff said in a statement .
" we will continue to work tirelessly to fully remediate the release area . "
for his part , chairman for the association of pentecostal churches in tanzania , daniel batenzi asked the leaders to be selflessness in serving the society .
the two highest-profile leaders of the gop ’ s defund obamacare effort have taken a significant hit in the polls .
a bipartisan think tank is pushing back against immigration advocates who want president obama to use his executive authority to expand a program to defer the deportations of undocumented immigrants .
fbi and atf have announced a reward of up to $ 25,000 for information leading to an arrest.national guard to recall most furloughed employees toy gun scare at benton boys and girls cluba teenager has been removed from an after-school program in benton for bringing a toy gun in her bag .
reston firm builds a reputation as well as web sites leaky pipeline spills crude oil near tioga thu oct 10 , 2013 7 : 22 pm edt bismarck police looking for two hit and run drivers thu oct 10 , 2013 3 : 22 pm edt dozens come to ’ take back the night ’ in bismarck tue oct 8 , 2013 01 : 22 am edt intersection to be closed to through traffic mon oct 7 , 2013 7 : 22 pm edt injured eagle to be returned to the wild mon oct 7 , 2013 3 : 22 pm edt obit : irene elain kvale rutherford thu oct 10 , 2013 1 : 22 pm edt obit : walter cavanaugh wed oct 9 , 2013 1 : 22 pm edt billings ’ horse sale is biggest in the west fri oct 11 , 2013 01 : 22 am edt und touts new training for drone pilots fri oct 11 , 2013 01 : 22 am edt ndsu president bresciani says school ’ out of the woods ’ financially fri oct 11 , 2013 01 : 22 am edt athletics at ndsu , und subsidized heavily by schools , students fri oct 11 , 2013 01 : 22 am edt 1-year-old minn. boy who ate detergent packet leaves hospital fri oct 11 , 2013 01 : 22 am edt heitkamp references hettinger family in senate speech fri oct 11 , 2013 01 : 22 am edt ’ look ma , no hands ’ on car steering wheel still some way off thu oct 10 , 2013 11 : 22 pm edt bresciani says ndsu ’ out of the woods ’ financially thu oct 10 , 2013 11 : 22 pm edt trucker challenges coverage of trial fri oct 11 , 2013 01 : 22 am edt pipeline spills near tioga thu oct 10 , 2013 5 : 22 pm edt williston jet center has big plans thu oct 10 , 2013 1 : 22 pm edt owens takes stand in his own defense thu oct 10 , 2013 1 : 22 pm edt pastors get lesson in helping homeless thu oct 10 , 2013 1 : 22 pm edt the 54-year-old , who launched his makeup line under his own surname in 1994 , has spent ten years capturing his island of motu tané off the coast of tahiti . ( 10 / 9 / 2013 8 : 12 : 10 am ) the 54-year-old , who launched his makeup line under his own surname in 1994 , has spent ten years capturing his island of motu tané off the coast of tahiti . ( 10 / 8 / 2013 7 : 29 : 19 pm ) tesla 's model s overtakes vw golf as norway 's best-selling car cgg : second cgg broadseis multi-client survey in norway offers new seismic footprint in barents sea newsnews indexlocal newsbusinessdixie statenation & worldnews galleriesstory archiveobituariesobituaries indexplace an obituarysportssports indexprep sportsoutdoorsgolfopinionopinion indexblogsmultimediamultimedia indexvideosnews galleriessports galleriespeople galleriesoutdoor galleriesthen and now galleriesevent galleriesseasonal galleriesall galleriessend us your photoslifelife indexfeaturesentertainmentfaithfamilycelebrationspeople galleriescomicspuzzleshoroscopesoutdoorsoutdoors indexhiking guideexploreoutdoor tipsnational & state parksoutdoor gallerieshelphelp indexsubscribe today ! subscriber servicescontact usstaff listnews tipsarchivessite index jacksonville jaguars cheerleaders to perform at fulham v west brom ' there is a need to invest in agriculture .
it 's a the official made the comments at a meeting in the burundian capital bujumbura in the presence of burundian vice-president gervais how to build back institutions that stand in the way of effective recovery , " she she said it is important to know whether set objectives burundi has a lot of potential to develop its economy , she " there is a need to invest in agriculture .
it 's a sector ezekwesili is on a four-day visit in burundi , as part of a project in the capital bujumbura and the prasab agro-pastoral project in central melchior ndadaye came to an end in august 2005 , with the holding of historic he said all appointed officials have the competence in the all of them are not from the ruling party , " he said. that " lack of knowledge and capacity are an obstacle to burundi 's economy for many furloughed government workers , the smartphone is a symbol of the work they yearn to do but can ’ t .
talos is the army ’ s version of an iron man suit a mastercard study finds that how cautious we are online has little to do with age , sex or other demographics .
ann hornaday & # 32 ; films like ’ captain phillips ’ represent hollywood ’ s — and audiences ’ — embrace of fact-based dramas .
there are few surprises in the latest update of shakespeare ’ s tragedy .
commentary : climate change : the present and future prospects in st vincent and the grenadines wildlife : macquarie is home to a large variety of wildlife .
elephant and fur seals breed on the island as do royal , king , gentoo and rockhopper penguins .
the royal penguin is endemic to macquarie island .
other fauna of the island includes skuas , petrels and a number of different types of albatross .
there are no trees on the island although the island is covered by tussock grass and other plants .
ohio kidnapper may not have committed suicide thu oct 10 , 2013 10 : 14 pm edt hope ?
shutdown / debt talks but no resolution yet thu oct 10 , 2013 10 : 14 pm edt tigers verlander shuts down as as detroit advances to alcs vs. red sox fri oct 11 , 2013 12 : 14 am edt maine brewers coping with shutdown ’ s effects thu oct 10 , 2013 6 : 14 pm edt northern new england shows off at paris air show sun jun 16 , 2013 8 : 14 pm edt vt. gov. to maine gov . : push to reopen us gov ’ t fri oct 11 , 2013 04 : 14 am edt mother of missing toddler preserves right to sue thu oct 10 , 2013 12 : 14 pm edt kennebunk savings has new office manager in kittery thu oct 10 , 2013 10 : 14 am edt becoming britt : a young person ’ s journey to be himself thu oct 10 , 2013 08 : 14 am edt kennebunk boys second at xc meet thu oct 10 , 2013 02 : 14 am edt two matches left for khs volleyball thu oct 10 , 2013 02 : 14 am edt kennebunk routs rangers , 42-14 thu oct 10 , 2013 02 : 14 am edt khs boys soccer fit to be tied thu oct 10 , 2013 02 : 14 am edt wells golfers qualify for class b tourney thu oct 10 , 2013 02 : 14 am edt u.s. : acadia can reopen during shutdown if state pays , but funds not there fri oct 11 , 2013 02 : 14 am edt u.s : acadia can reopen during shutdown if state pays , but funds not there fri oct 11 , 2013 12 : 14 am edt men who climbed university of maine at farmington buildings plead guilty , get deal thu oct 10 , 2013 8 : 14 pm edt and thatâ € ™ s a good thing if youâ € ™ re interested in learning about whatâ € ™ s happening in the atmosphere above the continent at one of the harshest times of the year. â € œthatâ € ™ s the capability weâ € ™ ve never had before : fly at a reasonably constant altitude and constant density surface and remain aloft for weeks if not months , â €  said deshler , a professor in the university of wyomingâ € ™ s department of atmospheric sciences as the line of sight of the gps signal from any of the orbiting global positioning satellites passes deeper into the atmosphere , the signal path is refracted â € ” bent and delayed â € ” by the density changes in the atmosphere .
the refraction is measured by the doppler shift of the carrier frequency of the gps signal , providing information on the pressure , temperature and humidity structure of the atmosphere .
the french team investigated the vortex core mechanics to see how well it isolates the polar winter air .
it is this isolation that allows the air to cool to psc temperatures , and then for ozone to be destroyed by chlorine activated on pscs during the winter. â € œit was a pretty big instrument development activity , â €  avallone said. â € œthereâ € ™ s not enough power on the balloon gondola that we can operate continuously , â €  deshler said. â € œwe have to sample pretty deep into the cloud to see the formation of [ the nat ] particles.â €  st kitts-nevis newspaper ordered to pay pm $ 350,000 in defamation suit commonwealth small states advocacy mission to be led by st kitts-nevis pm documentary recreates the horror and pandemonium of a 2008 mountaineering accident.1381441716000 ’ captain phillips ’ is a taut , superbly crafted maritime thriller , anchored by a superb performance by tom hanks .
1381440660000 check out this week ’ s new releases and see what washington is watching.1380896181000 ’ parkland ’ captures the sadness , solemnity and surreal weirdness of jfk ’ s assassination.1380828757000 documentary follow-up to ’ herb and dorothy ’ details the dispersal of one of the world ’ s great art collections .
1380828058000 ’ young detective dee : rise of the sea dragon ’ movie review check out this week ’ s new releases and see what washington is watching.1380291130000 a bullying vintner looks to supplant his heir apparent in this engrossing french melodrama.1380232814000 this noisy sequel to the 2009 hit delivers as much pizzazz as reheated leftovers.1380228660000 the beltway sniper drama ’ blue caprice ’ features standout performances , but never probes.1380228174000 ’ enough said ’ stars james gandolfini in one of his final film performances , an affectingly vulnerable turn.1380227160000 documentary about carine roitfeld probes as deeply as the cover of a couture-centric glossy.1380214800000 check out this week ’ s new releases and see what washington is watching .
zhang ziyi is a beijing wallflower who gets caught up in a diamond heist in this stylish , if silly , action comedy.1379619809000 there ’ s little to laugh about in dark comedy ’ the family ’ ’ sample this , ’ the story of ’ the national anthem of hip-hop ’ dan forrer ’ s discursive yet fascinating documentary explores the incredible bongo band ’ s ’ apache . ’ 1379015341000 french film is a tidy love letter — typed , no less — to the romantic comedies of the 1950s.1379014901000 carine roitfeld talks about the ’ mademoiselle c , ’ premiere and ’ cr fashion book ’ watch online : ’ somebody up there likes me ’ and ’ almost in love ’ middleburg film festival is vying for status as a stop on the festival and awards circuit.1378488272000 check out this week 's new movies and see what the critics had to say.1378486740000 check out this week ’ s new releases and see what washington is watching.1378474627000 review | the sci-fi thriller can be cheesy and silly , not to mention violent , but it ’ s fun.1378420020000 this week : a hilarious and touching meditation on love , a documentary about the man who made the yugo a brand name in the u.s. , and a light romantic comedy.1378329971000 check out this week ’ s new releases and see what washington is watching.1377871920000 get the scoop on which movies are good for kids.1377821520000 ’ closed circuit ’ should crackle with topical relevance , but it lags ’ smash and grab : the story of the pink panthers ’ movie review ’ cutie and the boxer ’ : imbalanced marriage can still be a match $ 300k raised in one day for annapolis woman in flash fundraiser thu oct 10 , 2013 10 : 15 am edt win tickets to the taste of kent narrows this saturday !
thu oct 10 , 2013 10 : 15 am edt anne arundel police issue warning on ’ green dot ’ scam wed oct 9 , 2013 08 : 15 am edt homeless man found dead at makeshift campsite in anne arundel fri oct 11 , 2013 12 : 15 am edt son of fallen officer throws out first pitch at orioles game fri sep 6 , 2013 12 : 15 pm edt first frozen yogurt shop opens in arbutus mon aug 12 , 2013 10 : 15 am edt taneytown teen and scholarship winner is a veteran volunteer mon aug 12 , 2013 10 : 15 am edt carrolltown mall redevelopment set to begin thu oct 3 , 2013 12 : 15 pm edt portable toilet set on fire in manchester tue sep 10 , 2013 12 : 15 pm edt manchester motorcyclist dies in crash sat sep 7 , 2013 6 : 15 pm edt bel air ’ s dave carey opts not to run for another term as commissioner tue oct 8 , 2013 10 : 15 am edt apg oktoberfest to be rescheduled tue oct 8 , 2013 10 : 15 am edt hcc arts collective to present ’ why am i not famous ? ’
thu oct 10 , 2013 4 : 15 pm edt look out , ’ dracula ’ is in your neck of the woods review thu oct 10 , 2013 2 : 15 pm edt some boston marathoners will run ’ because there are other people who can ’ t ’ thu oct 10 , 2013 6 : 15 pm edt o ’ malley stumps , raises cash for dems in florida and ohio thu oct 10 , 2013 2 : 15 pm edt for howard ’ s watson and kittleman , bacon isn ’ t on their plate thu oct 10 , 2013 10 : 15 am edt councilman marks announces re-election campaign in towson wed oct 9 , 2013 10 : 15 pm edt schools taking preventative measures to fight flu thu oct 10 , 2013 4 : 15 pm edt 4 new restaurants sign on to $ 85m towson project thu oct 10 , 2013 2 : 15 pm edt o ’ malley to discuss oyster progress fri oct 11 , 2013 04 : 15 am edt van gogh ’ s artistic ’ repetitions ’ featured in dc fri oct 11 , 2013 02 : 15 am edt remembrance in the park was a tribute to lost lives tue sep 10 , 2013 10 : 15 pm edt md. lawmaker questions steps to cut gun buy backlog tue sep 10 , 2013 8 : 15 pm edt grand jury indicts former hagerstown city councilwoman tue sep 10 , 2013 6 : 15 pm edt obama nominates yellen as fed chair wed oct 9 , 2013 4 : 15 pm edt peering into the future of gambling on delmarva fri oct 11 , 2013 12 : 15 am edt storm upsets beach replenishment fri oct 11 , 2013 12 : 15 am edt examining the idea to bring a new casino to sussex county fri oct 11 , 2013 12 : 15 am edt looking at the viability of delaware ’ s gaming industry thu oct 10 , 2013 10 : 15 pm edt police : ’ most wanted ’ man found trespassing on school property thu oct 10 , 2013 2 : 15 pm edt war of words escalates over turks and caicos attorney general turks and caicos premier says being honest and law abiding is pointless open request to caricom to launch an investigation in turks and caicos september 6 , 2013 this comes as a request for caricom to investigate the possible nationalisation of a 1m usd private asset in the tci .
on wednesday the attorney general of the turks and caicos islands announced that the office of the ag had secretly entered and taken possession of a private asset .
turks and caicos to sign international convention on tax transparency as we do our strategic planning i would like us all to keep four important things in mind : the availability of priests and deacons to minister to the needs of our local church and its parishes .
the infrastructure and financial health of our parishes -- how are we doing , how and where are we spending our resources .
how can we insure that our clergy are healthy and able to minister to our needs ?
are we stretching them too thin ?
how can we help them better serve us ?
avril lavigne and chad kroeger release “ let me go ” duet avril lavigne and hubby chad kroeger record duet together — listen to " let me go " here !
snowden honored by u.s. whistleblowers in moscow as his father arrives , hoping to visit the price of oil went up because traders misread a tweet bill did s congress did he opt out of obamacare . we should have the same health care as congress doesl site map | terms of use | privacy statement | copyright & trademark notice | eeodana milbank : the shutdown ’ s enforcer in chief - the washington post tom toles has been the post ’ s editorial cartoonist since 2002.find tom toles on facebooksend an e-mail to tom tolesvideo : the making of a toles cartoon greenland — a local teacher is thankful for the community 's support as he seeks answers to the cause of a debilitating mystery illness . ( 10 / 8 / 2013 2 : 13 : 33 am ) post politicsthe fact checkerthe federal eyein the loopshe the peoplethe fix all opinions are localthe answer sheetcampus overloadcapital weather gangclass struggledr .
gridlocka house divideddistrict of debonismichael rosenwaldthe state of nova capitals insiderdc sports bogthe early leadthe insidernationals journalrecruiting insidersoccer insiderterrapins insiderwizards insider officials hope to identify citizens who buy air tickets not to travel , but to win the right to buy dollars at a good rate .
fair warning to employers : the nlrb is back thu oct 10 , 2013 6 : 27 pm edt fts international shows how to frack a shale well thu oct 10 , 2013 6 : 27 pm edt tenet healthcare upgraded by goldman sachs , downgraded by zacks thu oct 10 , 2013 4 : 27 pm edt what ’ s driving retailers to northpark center ?
thu oct 10 , 2013 4 : 27 pm edt i-team : tceq cannot approve exides frisco cleanup plan fri oct 11 , 2013 02 : 27 am edt aggies aim for offensive perfection thu oct 10 , 2013 8 : 27 pm edt bogus rental ad lists house that ’ s for sale fri oct 11 , 2013 12 : 27 am edt deion sanders , school administrator scuffle thu oct 10 , 2013 10 : 27 pm edt cowtown ’ s longest horn thu oct 10 , 2013 10 : 27 pm edt man charged with intoxication manslaughter in 635 accident was friend of victim fri oct 11 , 2013 02 : 27 am edt sisters on the fly brings trailer campout to fort worth thu oct 10 , 2013 8 : 27 pm edt woman connected to veterinarian ’ s slaying in saginaw arrested again thu oct 10 , 2013 10 : 27 pm edt weekend rains won ’ t quench north texas ’ thirst thu oct 10 , 2013 6 : 27 pm edt authorities identify men who died in wrecks in arlington , burleson tue oct 8 , 2013 8 : 27 pm edt gm shows new escalade designed to win back luxury buyers tue oct 8 , 2013 6 : 27 pm edt spotlight on ’ northwest arlington newsletter ’ tue oct 8 , 2013 12 : 27 pm edt bridgeport showman aims to soar in the footsteps of evel fri oct 11 , 2013 12 : 27 am edt texas executes lubbock man who killed parents wed oct 9 , 2013 10 : 27 pm edt lubbock man loses bid to halt execution wed oct 9 , 2013 8 : 27 pm edt setting an example to be followed by other mps , the nyamagana mp , ezekiah wenje has led the inauguration of a mobile laboratory and other equipment worth 5.9m / - meant to secondary schools in his constituency .
masanja said that the camp seeks to provide skills to youths and enable them to profitably engage in agricultural activities as a way of realising the government ’ s ambitious ’ big results now ’ .
half a world a way from the us capital , the us antarctica program is now in " caretaker status , " suspending numerous projects underway on the continent . ( 10 / 9 / 2013 4 : 07 : 05 pm ) air new zealand is planning a demonstration flight to antarctica next month .
the airline will fly one of its boeing 767-300s from auckland to an ice runway near mcmurdo station as part of a proving flight to determine the feasibility of using the jumbo jet to fly scientists and other support personnel to the chilly continent . ( 9 / 24 / 2013 1 : 50 : 58 pm ) not exactly the same as the old fed boss .
under yellen , the markets are less likely to be fooled again .
september 16meet the new fed boss , same as the old boss vote for caylee anna for georgia female artist of the year thu oct 10 , 2013 3 : 10 pm edt john mayer volunteers at fch wed oct 9 , 2013 3 : 10 pm edt historic fair held at andersonville wed oct 9 , 2013 3 : 10 pm edt ways to save : 60 % off hooked on phonics & dr. seuss fri oct 11 , 2013 05 : 10 am edt imposter service dogs becoming a big problem fri oct 11 , 2013 01 : 10 am edt family of hit and run victim jacob little hoping for answers fri oct 11 , 2013 01 : 10 am edt car accident creates geyser on washington road thu oct 10 , 2013 07 : 10 am edt plant vogtle update thu oct 10 , 2013 11 : 10 pm edt a son-in-law ’ s love thu oct 10 , 2013 11 : 10 pm edt parmenter helps preserve bartow ’ s past through evhs mon oct 7 , 2013 09 : 10 am edt masked men rob dollar general on st. marys road thu oct 10 , 2013 7 : 10 pm edt calvary christian school to be closed friday -- because of a beautiful day thu oct 10 , 2013 07 : 10 am edt red ribbon week kicks off wed oct 9 , 2013 7 : 10 pm edt nelms appointed boe member wed oct 9 , 2013 09 : 10 am edt boe will appoint new member sun oct 6 , 2013 09 : 10 am edt hiv focus of endangerment trial fri oct 11 , 2013 01 : 10 am edt economist : us default not likely to occur thu oct 10 , 2013 01 : 10 am edt what & x92 ; s open , what & x92 ; s not for columbus day thu oct 10 , 2013 11 : 10 pm edt lizella man doing & x91 ; civic duty & x92 ; peed on cop car wed oct 9 , 2013 11 : 10 pm edt kudzu bugs a costly concern for soybean farmers fri oct 11 , 2013 01 : 10 am edt men charged in separate robbery , burglary fri oct 11 , 2013 01 : 10 am edt alford to speak at live oak church anniversary fri oct 11 , 2013 01 : 10 am edt step up : why poor pay more ?
thu oct 10 , 2013 11 : 10 pm edt tifton to host first-ever veterans day celebrations thu oct 10 , 2013 11 : 10 pm edt barbara ann brogdon thu oct 10 , 2013 11 : 10 pm edt big blue battle at brodie thu oct 10 , 2013 11 : 10 pm edt berrien to take on bulldogs thu oct 10 , 2013 11 : 10 pm edt parents can receive leftover pams money by filling out form thu oct 10 , 2013 11 : 10 pm edt lowndes lost in limbo thu oct 10 , 2013 09 : 10 am edt man sentenced to life for child molestation wed oct 9 , 2013 09 : 10 am edt it 's really no surprise -- the one and only sickness doctors at st. vincent are warning you about is the flu -- and the symptoms like coughs and ear aches the independentsee realtime coverageorlando cruz : the gay boxer who is breaking barriersthe independent- & lrm ; oct 10 , 2013 & lrm ; a few years ago there was a boxer on the white-collar circuit in london known as the pink pounder and he had a loyal following and a good sense of humour.openly gay fighter cruz comes out swinginglas vegas review-journalsee all 100 sourcesrelated : orlando cruz cbssports.comsee realtime coveragereport : buccaneers ol carl nicks showing mrsa infection againcbssports.com- & lrm ; 52 minutes ago & lrm ; cultures taken from nicks are showing mrsa in his left foot .
the infection is believed to be a reoccurrence of the original infection , according to the report.related tampa bay buccaneers third buc tests positive for mrsaespnthird bucs player diagnosed with mrsa infectiontbo.comsee all 78 sourcesrelated tampa bay buccaneers judging front and center as bradley-marquez nearsusa todayhow to bet bradley-marquezespnin depth : the genius of juan manuel marquezbloody elbowsee all 248 sourcesrelated juan manuel márquez red sox alcs previewwburhey detroit !
this is why the sox are going to win ! patch.comin depth : ben reiter : cardinals , dodgers , red sox , tigers prove payrolls still mattersi.comsee all 317 sourcesrelated boston red sox the daughter of a financial advisor , emily bach once wanted to fall far from the tree .
" i thought i was going to go to law school , but my dad talked me out of it , " she says , laughing .
" we let the professionals do the money management , " she says .
" i do distinguish myself as a portfolio manager , not as a wealth manager , " says rosenau .
" people come to me to manage money for them . "
" you have to understand the reasons for the rally and work through the noise -- from the fed , from the pundits on cnbc , and so on , " she says .
" a healthy correction is inevitable , but i am optimistic for the longer-term growth of the equity markets . "
" it was suggested to me that i should try to start my own practice in the private bank , " she says .
" i didn 't have any clients " -- meaning no dedicated clients for whom she was the lead advisor -- " so that made me nervous . "
research and markets has announced the addition of the " travel and tourism in the netherlands to 2017 " report to thei ( 9 / 25 / 2013 10 : 02 : 00 am ) leaders now acknowledge that effort to defund the health-care law has failed , and they ’ re looking for plan b. helplessly , the crew waited to see if the floe would carry them closer to land .
the second encampment was named " patience camp . "
an author shares his appreciation for the new nobel laureate .
notables in the literary world share their thoughts on the awarding of the honor to the canadian author . ’ firefly , ’ a tender portrayal of a great wit blinking out an ambitious and grim new set of graphic novels by the author of & ldquo ; american born chinese . & rdquo ; the author talks about how she developed , and is inspired by , the characters in her trilogy .
david vann ’ s sophoclean novel looks at the existential results of a boy killing a poacher .
review | dystopian satire is a relentless broadside against the corrosive effects of social media .
lionel shriver , jonathan evison and jodi picoult decry gop opposition to obamacare .
how a british politician 's sex affair with a woman toppled a government and enraptured a country in ’ isaac & isaiah , ’ david caute replays the antagonism between two cold war philosophers the nobel prize winner describes his childhood and his father ’ s tireless work as a doctor in africa .
andrew bacevich criticizes the all-volunteer military and how it has led to reckless war policy shutdown and kids : what to do when the zoo is closed kilimanjaro regional commissioner leonidas gama called on the ’ wananchi ’ in areas to be visited by vice-president to show up and witness the launch of the development projects .
dozens of ud sorority members injured in bus crash fri oct 11 , 2013 01 : 09 am edt broadkill bears the brunt of coastal storm in delaware fri oct 11 , 2013 01 : 09 am edt broadkill bearsstorm ’ s brunt thu oct 10 , 2013 9 : 09 pm edt 2 philly inquirer owners sue company , publisher thu oct 10 , 2013 7 : 09 pm edt federal agents are in kenya to help with the investigation , analyzing fingerprints and dna to determine the identities of victims and the terrorists .
mukhtar abu zubeyr is bookish and recites poetry .
he has also killed most rivals to gain control of al-shabab .
over 50 exhibitors for arusha international gemstone fair na the guardian reporter the cost of preparing the showcasing event is estimated to be 450m / - but in turn it is expected to bring in more than 4bn / - as it did last year .
the secretary of the fair ’ s preparatory committee , eng benjamini mchwampaka told reporters over the weekend , that everything was on the right track and they had started allocating exhibitors to their slots .
as such , he called on africa ’ s mining dealers and brokers to take advantage of the opportunity by participating in the event .
because of the partial government shutdown , most of the monumental core in washington , d.c. is not being maintained .
but on wednesday , chris cox of south carolina bought an old lawn mower and a leaf blower and got to work .
repeat : it ’ s only a tv show .
it ’ s only a tv show .
exotic ’ breaking bad ’ dream theory is a case of overthinking .
the political gamesmanship of our elected leaders is having an ugly effect on real life in the city .
all the crazy dysfunction responsible for this absurd impasse in congress ?
that ’ s been imported to washington .
as the egyptian army ’ s patron , america is complicit in its behavior .
the hard right ’ s influence is fading in the wake of the shutdown .
obama ’ s resolve and the gop ’ s rifts make for a new kind of confrontation .
the act is doomed , and republicans can speed its demise .
right now , they ’ re not .
why do so few seem to care about this disturbing trend ?
the gop has no plan , but it shut down the government anyway .
should there be a limit on the number of candidates to whom a person can donate ?
cafritz project shows need for developers to be upfront and neighborhoods to accept change .
it will get better over time , but already , the act is a beautiful thing .
this time , the house speaker has little choice to relent to the president ’ s demands .
president obama gave us a moral cause for the war , but we still don ’ t know his end goal .
the collapse of authority in the party has given us the shutdown .
he wisely seizes an opportunity for a diplomatic solution on syria .
la république du congo donne une nouvelle impulsion à la lutte contre la malnutrition les associations lamuka et edden lancent un projet de formation des jeunes dans le domaine agricole congo les associations lamuka et edden lancent un projet de formation des jeunes dans le domaine agricole un projet de formation des jeunes congolais dans le domaine de l ’ agriculture , dénommé « l ’ agriculture : réel essor pour la jeunesse ' » , a été lancé le 10 octobre à brazzaville par les ong lamuka et edden ( engagement pour le développement durable et l ’ environnement ) .
ce projet qui bénéficie d ’ un appui financier du ministère français des affaires étrangères , vise à favoriser la réinsertion des jeunes par le biais de la formation professionnelle .
congo la république du congo donne une nouvelle impulsion à la lutte contre la malnutrition la république du congo a adopté , le 8 octobre à brazzaville , un plan d ’ action de lutte contre la malnutrition chronique visant à donner une nouvelle impulsion à la lutte contre ce fléau .
le plan a été adopté lors d ’ une réunion des décideurs , marquée par l ’ adhésion du congo à l ’ initiative sun ( scaling up nutrition , un mouvement mondial qui réunit les gouvernements , la société civile , les entreprises et les citoyens dans un effort mondial pour mettre fin à la sous-nutrition . • unhcr step up assistance to idps in ouham pende despite unstable security situation world + 16 others rapport d ’ activité sur l ’ action humanitaire d ’ urgence en 2012 la france aide chaque année de nombreux pays en difficulté .
en 2012 , les populations syriennes , palestiniennes et maliennes ont été les principaux bénéficiaires de son aide .
l ’ action humanitaire d ’ état fait partie intégrante de l ’ action diplomatique de la france .
elle est guidée par les principes fondamentaux d ’ humanité , d ’ impartialité , d ’ indépendance et de neutralité définis par le droit international humanitaire .
congo l ’ assemblée nationale appelée à se préoccuper du dossier des sinistrés du 4 mars la deuxième chambre du parlementcongolais tiendra , le 15 octobre prochain , sa session budgétaire exercice 2014 .
pour le député de la deuxième circonscription électorale de talangaï ( 6ème arrondissement de brazzaville ) et président du mouvement pour la démocratie et le progrès ( mdp ) , jean-claude ibovi , aucun prétexte ne devra plus être évoqué quant à l ’ inscription , dans les lignes budgétaires , du dossier de la reconstruction des maisons détruites lors des explosions du camp du régiment blindé de mpila , le 4 mars 2012 .
democratic republic of the congo + 1 other mbandaka : les rapatriés du congo-brazzaville se plaignent de leur prise en charge les congolais de l ’ equateur rapatriés du congo-brazzaville se plaignent de bénéficier dune prise en charge insuffisante à mbandaka , leur lieu de transit avant de rentrer dans leurs milieux d ’ origine .
ils ont affirmé vendredi 27 septembre que les familles qui les accueillent à mbandaka sont elles mêmes modestes .
selon eux , le haut commissariat pour les réfugiés ( hcr ) na pas apporté toute l ’ aide promise exceptée la scolarisation des enfants .
ils demandent d ’ être acheminé vers leurs destinations finales à bolomba , basankusu et lisala .  il est estimé que 288 000 personnes se sont déplacées à l ’ intérieur et hors de la rca depuis le début du conflit de décembre 2012  les prix mondiaux des denrées alimentaires ont baissé de 7 points par rapport à 2012 , mais ils sont en hausse dans la région  menace d ’ une crise alimentaire en rca où près de 40 pour cent de la population a besoin d 'une aide alimentaire et environ 11 pour cent est vulnérable à une crise alimentaire congo + 3 others des experts du congo , cameroun et gabon procèdent à l ’ évaluation in vitro des antipaludiques des experts du congo-brazzaville , du cameroun et du gabon participent , du 9 au 10 septembre à brazzaville , à un atelier d ’ évaluation in vitro des antipaludiques visant à harmoniser les techniques et à partager des données .
l ’ atelier est organisé par la fondation congolaise pour la recherche médicale ( fcrm ) , sous le thème : « culture in vitro de plasmodium falciparum et tests de chimio sensibilité » .
democratic republic of the congo + 1 other le hcr aide plus de 100 000 réfugiés à rentrer au nord de la rdc buburu , république démocratique du congo , 3 septembre ( hcr ) – des bateaux transportant plus de 350 réfugiés ont traversé la rivière oubangui vers la république démocratique du congo ( rdc ) mardi , portant ainsi à plus de 100 000 le nombre total des personnes rapatriées depuis le congo dans le cadre d 'un programme du hcr pour le rapatriement .
when i was growing up in massachusetts , my dad loved to work on cars .
every time he headed out to the driveway , i was right there with him .
one weekend , when i was 10 or so , he told me we were off to fix a transmission .
" i can 't do that , " i said .
he replied without a pause , " people do it every day .
you can certainly do it once . "
that straightforward advice -- and the fact that we did fix the transmission -- stuck with me .
my year using aereo : how a dime-sized antenna met my tv needs nextlesson is a web app where teachers and parents can get access to pre-designed lesson plans or create their own .
it wasn 't created by a 20-year-old to jump on the next big trend .
it was created by a couple of dads using the ideas and techniques of high tech to solve a real problem in education .
how to prevent hunger in upcoming decades ?
try precision agriculture we don 't need to sugarcoat the cure for climate change why can 't i bring my cloud-based consumer apps to work ?
what 's a social business ?
look beyond the tweets and likes how to stop your old facebook statuses from haunting you a ridiculously easy way to see if your batteries are duds gus wenner runs rollingstone.com ; his father gave him the job .
but jann wenner , the magazine ’ s co-founder and publisher , was quick to assure critics of the appointment process that his son is terribly talented and had to prove himself before being given the reins .
september 30 , 2013 willemstad , curacao -- the first gay pride event in curacao has been cancelled .
the curacao government had set additional conditions in the granting of the permit for the event on the island , which was supposed to be held in downtown punda , the old town of willemstad , on saturday .
curacao clean up picks up half million kilos of trash june 10 , 2013 willemstad , curacao -- a new government was installed in curacao on friday , when governor adel van der pluijm-vrede swore in ten new ministers who will serve the rest of the coalition ’ s four year term .
as anticipated , ivar asjes is curacao ’ s new prime minister .
permanent diaconatecalled to servehave you ever had a sense that you might be called to serve god through the blessings you have received ?
maybe you have sensed a call to assist our priests in the daily work of parish ministry .
maybe you have become acutely aware of the many injustices facing god 's people in the world , and you feel a call to try to make a difference .
all christians are called to serve , but perhaps you have felt a desire to move closer to god and his church in order to serve others in a new and purposeful way .
is god calling you to be a permanent deacon ?
by entering into the process of discerning a vocation to the permanent diaconate , you are responding to this sense that god may be calling you .
it starts simply and becomes a journey of self-discovery in service to god and his people.perhaps this website will confirm your personal interest in the diaconate and stimulate a decision to look deeper into what is involved in becoming a deacon in the diocese of duluth . " as our saviour and master said in the gospel : let he who wishes to be great among you , make himself your servant , in the same way as the son of man came not to be served , but to serve and give his life as a ransom for many , you deacons must do the same , even if that means giving your life for your brothers and sisters , because of the service which you are bound to fulfill . " – didascalia apostolorum dpac operations net $ 3.3 million thu oct 10 , 2013 8 : 22 pm edt speakers tie durhams health to equality thu oct 10 , 2013 6 : 22 pm edt let & x92 ; s make a deal ?
obama and gop are talking thu oct 10 , 2013 10 : 22 pm edt tn 420 emporium co-owner pleads not guilty thu oct 10 , 2013 9 : 28 pm edt rick boucher endorses northam for lieutenant governor thu oct 10 , 2013 7 : 28 pm edt columbus day closings thu oct 10 , 2013 7 : 28 pm edt free fries at burger king thu oct 10 , 2013 11 : 28 pm edt us marshals arrest baltimore ’ s public enemy number one at oceanfront thu oct 10 , 2013 7 : 28 pm edt childcare voucher program suspended in nc because of shutdown thu oct 10 , 2013 7 : 28 pm edt heavy rain causes rotting trees to topple thu oct 10 , 2013 3 : 28 pm edt maryland man killed in accomack county crash thu oct 10 , 2013 3 : 28 pm edt thursday ’ s roundup cox girls upset ocean lakes in 5-setter fri oct 11 , 2013 01 : 28 am edt cocktail 80 / 20 burger bar ’ s the reconstructor fri oct 11 , 2013 01 : 28 am edt for a short dude , danzig ’ s a titan fri oct 11 , 2013 01 : 28 am edt headphone thieves strike on vcu ’ s main campus , use bicycles for getaway fri oct 11 , 2013 05 : 28 am edt sinkhole closes i-81 south lane in christiansburg fri oct 11 , 2013 05 : 28 am edt chesterfield police say a stolen gun was used to kill a beloved horse fri oct 11 , 2013 05 : 28 am edt mcauliffe leads cuccinelli in poll fri oct 11 , 2013 05 : 28 am edt scammers try to cash in on obamacare confusion thu oct 10 , 2013 11 : 28 pm edt mcauliffe has significant lead over cuccinelli in virginia governor ’ s race fri oct 11 , 2013 01 : 28 am edt wilder endorsing democrat mcauliffe for va gov thu oct 10 , 2013 3 : 28 pm edt ap retracts story about mcauliffe thu oct 10 , 2013 1 : 28 pm edt switzerland to vote on $ 2,800 monthly ‘ basic income ’ for adults why switzerland has some of the happiest , healthiest citizens in the world on a clear day in switzerland , you can see ( almost ) forever chadema chief whip tundu lissu addresses press conference in dar es salaam yesterday .
( photo : selemani mpochi ) lissu , the member of parliament for iramba-east , accused the ruling chama cha mapinduzi of monopolising the creation of the new constitution . & ldquo ; for instance , shivyawata , said that they did not propose al shayma kweigir to represent them in the commission , yet kweigir was the one the president appointed to represent shivyawata , & rdquo ; lisu said .
eac executive says reports on ' sidelining ' of tanzania false na lusekelo philemon the secretary general of the east african community ( eac ) dr richard sezibera has ascertained that at no point has tanzania been sidelined in matters of the regional bloc as it has been claimed by some people .
he described tanzania as a significant partner in the eac hence underlining that it cannot be sidelined on matters of the trading bloc .
dr sezibera again stressed that tanzania remains a strong and significant eac partner state .
the eac is now working on a political federation model and experts are expected to submit it before the head summit at the end of this year .
man nabbed on gun charges thu oct 10 , 2013 06 : 13 am edt russ entangled in new litigation thu oct 10 , 2013 06 : 13 am edt drug busts net 4 arrests wed oct 9 , 2013 06 : 13 am edt prosecutor : man killed cab driver in 2011 to get crack cocaine thu oct 10 , 2013 8 : 13 pm edt furloughed veteran turns to music fri oct 11 , 2013 02 : 13 am edt gop meeting with obama called ’ very useful ’ thu oct 10 , 2013 8 : 13 pm edt runaway pig continue to elude capture thu oct 10 , 2013 6 : 13 pm edt gay teen ’ s mission : make tipton a kinder place fri oct 11 , 2013 06 : 13 am edt braley in hot water after quip about towel service fri oct 11 , 2013 06 : 13 am edt new faces : isu spurred on by last seasons disappointment fri oct 11 , 2013 12 : 13 am edt up down : barcade opening in east village fri oct 11 , 2013 12 : 13 am edt u of i students work to improve washington , iowa fri oct 11 , 2013 06 : 13 am edt upper iowa university to inaugurate new president fri oct 11 , 2013 06 : 13 am edt establishment gopers assail tea party on shutdown fri oct 11 , 2013 04 : 13 am edt would new school heighten city-west rivalry ?
fri oct 11 , 2013 06 : 13 am edt student sets out to make tipton kinder fri oct 11 , 2013 06 : 13 am edt kiwanis club members to distribute snacks fri oct 11 , 2013 06 : 13 am edt sentencing for man accused in motel standoff mon oct 7 , 2013 12 : 13 pm edt missouri man to be sentenced for al-qaida support mon oct 7 , 2013 12 : 13 pm edt firefighters battle blaze at old red oak bar mon oct 7 , 2013 12 : 13 pm edt & ldquo ; it is not necessary for all vehicles to pass at the same weighbridge , some can weigh at kibaha while others at mikese in morogoro , & rdquo ; he suggested .
he also reiterated government ’ s commitment to road maintenance that prompted it to redress the overloaded leeway for transporters . • sweden and russia are the largest donors to the region call to naturalize some expats stirs anxiety in the uae call to naturalise some expats stirs anxiety in the uae if you are interested in working for an innovative media company , you can learn more by visiting : if you agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement , you should check the box indicating your agreement to the terms of this agreement on the registration page for the service .
if you do not agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement , you should not check the box but you will not be able to proceed with the registration process for the respective service and become a subscriber .
to the extent you have access to , or are using , a service without having completed our registration process , you are hereby notified that your continued use of a service is subject to many of the terms and conditions of this agreement as explained in section 5 below .
other subscribers and users .
if your access to a service is provided by , or through a third party , or if you have paid for access to the service in connection with your subscription to one of our print publications , or purchased your subscription to the service through a retailer rather than from us directly , some or all of the " fees and payments " and " renewal " terms may not apply to you .
please contact the third party , retailer or our customer service department for details .
if you access a service as part of an " open house " free trial or otherwise without becoming a subscriber , you are hereby notified that all of the terms and conditions of this subscriber agreement except the section labeled " fees and payments " and " renewal " apply to your use and access of the service .
what ’ s on tap ?
new wine studio at norton commons thu oct 10 , 2013 2 : 14 pm edt ups expands offerings to mexico thu oct 10 , 2013 2 : 14 pm edt why papa johns is celebrating in london thu oct 10 , 2013 12 : 14 pm edt thunder run at kentucky kingdom up and running thu oct 10 , 2013 10 : 14 pm edt bardstown road to be closed for caufield ’ s halloween parade friday night thu oct 10 , 2013 10 : 14 pm edt bardstown road to be closed for caulfield ’ s halloween parade friday night thu oct 10 , 2013 8 : 14 pm edt 8 arrested in la grange thu oct 10 , 2013 6 : 14 pm edt jobless claims jump to 374k thu oct 10 , 2013 6 : 14 pm edt hershey rolls out soft caramels thu oct 10 , 2013 6 : 14 pm edt self-driving cars of the future are sort of here now thu oct 10 , 2013 2 : 14 pm edt hotel bars bottle up batches of fizzy cocktails thu oct 10 , 2013 02 : 14 am edt man accused of waving crowbar outside bar before urinating on jail floor thu oct 10 , 2013 12 : 14 am edt terms of service mon dec 26 , 2011 10 : 56 am est dog shelter volunteer to live like a dog for 48 hours fri oct 11 , 2013 12 : 14 am edt caufield parade spooks up the highlands this weekend thu oct 10 , 2013 6 : 14 pm edt indiana man wanted in 2011 slaying arrested in ga . thu oct 10 , 2013 6 : 14 pm edt business owners thankful for arrest in danville triple murders thu oct 10 , 2013 8 : 14 pm edt spike it to cancer thu oct 10 , 2013 4 : 14 pm edt the summer saw major developments at australia ’ s elemental minerals ltd .
after being the object of a takeover bid by the asian group dingyi - which has yet to be approved by the hong ( ... )
congo-b ’ s state-owned oil company and ivory coast ’ s pertroci are now sole owners of the mbk fields discovered by elf in the 1980s . ( ... )
a spotlight has turned seriously at last on congo-b ’ s potash sector .
the country has huge resources of the mineral used in manufacturing fertilizer but up to now no industrial-scale ( ... )
a dispute has broken out over exploration permits for iron ore at okanabora and ( ... )
how one of the world 's top educational performers turned around . ( 10 / 9 / 2013 12 : 55 : 32 am ) world cup romance comes to rochdale with a dash of fiji offered in the pennines got a success story of your own ?
send it to us at success.stories @ huffingtonpost.com and you could be featured on the site !
the huffington post publishes photographs as they are submitted to us by our readers .
good for her its so much more healthier she would be having a tough life if she would have stayed the old way. keep it off girl and you look marvelous .
go to www.washingtonpostreprints.com and click on & ldquo ; purchase a photo for personal use . & rdquo ; govt : no budging on excess cargo weight move na malela kassim & ldquo ; the agreement made in 2006 has been overtaken by events and cannot be applicable any more because there is no more reason for us to go on tolerating overloaded cargo at our weighbridges , & rdquo ; argued ntemo .
this paper has recently noticed an unusually big number of trucks lined up at some weighbridges in different parts of the country , sometimes the queues up to two kilometres long , apparently because of snail ’ s pace at which they are cleared .
mikese weighbridge in morogoro region is especially notorious .
with the increasing popularity of prepaid cards , it is no surprise that businesses are now u & hellip ; who do you feel is most at fault for the government shutdown ?
factbox : when could the debt ceiling put the united states in default ? reutersoh , and by the way ... we 're brokeamerican thinkerin depth : raising the debt ceiling the struggle continuesthe economistsee all 917 sourcesrelated jack lew commenti e responsabilita ' del gestore : testo della sentenza delif vs estonia god and the world : a conversation with peter seewaldbehold the pierced oneon the way to jesus christcalled to communion : understanding the church todayco-workers of the truthdaughter zion : meditations of the church 's marian belief gospel , catechism and catechesis : sidelights on the catechism of the catholic church in the beginning ... "
a catholic understanding of the story of creation and the fall eschatology : death and eternal lifeimages of hope : meditations on major feastsvalues in a time of upheavalon the way to jesus christgod 's revolution : world youth day and other cologne talkschurch , ecumenism and politicsjesus of nazarethgod 's word : scripture , tradition , officenew outpourings of the spiriteurope : today and tomorrowthe dialectics of secularization united arab emirates crude oil consumption by year ( thousand barrels per day ) abdelwaheb ben ayed , known as tunisia ’ s “ chicken king ” has turned his attention to the country ’ s highways .
his ( ... )
worried about the survival of the nidaa tounes party ( its “ destourian ” and “ leftist ” wings constantly clash ) , the movement ’ s president , beji caid essebsi has taken it upon himself ( ... )
a former senior executivemarathon oil in tunisia between 1983-96 .
mongi haffouz ( ... )
may 1 , 2013 did you know that the puerto rico bacardi distillery is the largest rum distillery in the world ?
the distillery is located close to old san juan .
if you are planning to visit puerto rico , be sure to include this place in your itinerary .
bush tea to become mcdonalds menu item in usvi and puerto rico the northern cross - schoolsend of school year testing is done — now what ?
the last pile of snow has melted on the playground , the sun feels powerfully warm , and our students have put away school vests and sweatshirts .
it is the end of another school year at st. joseph ’ s school .
us interior department considers opening some national parksreutersstates may use own money to reopen national parksusa today - by aamer madhaniin depth : outside national parks , feeling squeezed by the shutdownnew york timessee all 409 sourcesrelated utah it ’ s sunday , and tony feist talks with a fishing ship captain , who is on a satellite phone in the pacific ocean .
feist needs to airfreight parts to american samoa in order to fix the captain ’ s boat . ( 9 / 18 / 2013 9 : 26 : 29 am ) riot grrrls successfully serve up a grisly tale of revenge ford ’ s ’ laramie project ’ will go on — but maybe elsewhere the famous theater and the play are victims of the government shutdown.1381105980000 two of the works in the opening program thrilled withtheir quicksilver pace.1379875920000 dance review : ’ times bones ’ is a creative reworking of past margaret jenkins culled her earlier productions to produce a new and rewarding work.1379390275000 ’ mirror and music ’ makes for a hard night at theater veteran dancers astad deboo and shanta and v.p. dhananjayan will put the power of gray on display.1379079458000 in theater j ’ s ’ after the revolution , ’ a lefty clan crumbles play is set in a world of excess — featuring naughty schoolgirls and even naughtier nuns .
1379000640000 american dancer spoke at the kennedy center about his journey to the top of his profession.1378690440000 tiler peck gets her pointe shoes ready for ’ little dancer ’ dance review | as the kankouran troupe took the stage to celebrate , it was instantly clear why it has thrived .
all the details are well planned and the apparitions seem never-ending in the sprawling fantasy.1377021660000 7th year of festival is a ’ marathon of experimental improv ’ signature adapts & ldquo ; miss saigon , & rdquo ; and the show is the & ldquo ; most technically ambitious in the theater ’ s history . & rdquo ; 1376069014000 playwrights and actors find the comforts of private residences canserve plays well.1374856847000 ’ a midsummer night ’ s dream ’ is based on the play by william shakespeare and adapted by paata tsikurishvili and ben cunis .
through aug .
4 at synetic theater .
1374791418000 synetic theater ’ s wordless & ldquo ; midsummer night ’ s dream & rdquo ; is still nimble and breezy in revival.1374786273000 at ’ dr. seuss ’ s cat in the hat , ’ lots of good fun that is funny adventure theatre mtc stages a charming dramatization of the popular children ’ s book.1374780840000 a play about young marrieds has a unique concept that is not well served by the script or the direction.1374710043000 ’ little prince ’ staged in annapolis as a tiny royal arrives in london balbin and anderson talk about new book spirit of the ojibwe thu oct 10 , 2013 12 : 20 pm edt portage considers bow hunt in city sun oct 6 , 2013 2 : 20 pm edt prairie view to celebrate reopening sun aug 25 , 2013 10 : 20 am edt artists , educators laud black heritage in dr fri oct 11 , 2013 02 : 20 am edt mom of american detained in n. korea visiting him fri oct 11 , 2013 02 : 20 am edt vigil held for stephanie low fri oct 11 , 2013 02 : 20 am edt wendy ’ s in rib mountain destroyed by fire fri oct 11 , 2013 02 : 20 am edt fire at wendy ’ s in rib mountain fri oct 11 , 2013 12 : 20 am edt wis .
dnr to hold skills day at horicon marsh fri oct 11 , 2013 06 : 20 am edt madelia hosts governor ’ s pheasant hunting opener fri oct 11 , 2013 06 : 20 am edt local doctors face the music ... or the pies for a good cause fri oct 11 , 2013 12 : 20 am edt fond du lac and area fundraisers list fri oct 11 , 2013 06 : 20 am edt fdl and area church news and notes fri oct 11 , 2013 06 : 20 am edt grandparents who travel to care for grandchildren are a growing trend mon jul 29 , 2013 6 : 20 pm edt lueders : opposition to obamacare has its limits fri oct 11 , 2013 02 : 20 am edt prep girls tennis : piaskowski qualifies for state fri oct 11 , 2013 06 : 20 am edt here ’ s what happened when i tried to sign up for obamacare ’ s exchanges : column fri oct 11 , 2013 06 : 20 am edt seniors on the move recharge on island of happy days fri oct 11 , 2013 06 : 20 am edt roach column : a doctor ’ s view of the physical exam fri oct 11 , 2013 06 : 20 am edt meet charlotte , the northwestern ’ s pet of the week fri oct 11 , 2013 12 : 20 am edt quick action by custodian alerts montello school of dryer fire ; all are safe thu oct 10 , 2013 10 : 20 pm edt how will you make a difference ?
thu oct 10 , 2013 2 : 20 pm edt pulaski man charged with 11th owi offense wed aug 14 , 2013 02 : 20 am edt health can be factor in county planning wed aug 14 , 2013 02 : 20 am edt letter : thoughts on schisms and separations in the church fri oct 11 , 2013 06 : 20 am edt obamacare exchanges an inexcusable mess : other view fri oct 11 , 2013 06 : 20 am edt spash grad mccarville on wnba championship team fri oct 11 , 2013 06 : 20 am edt risky sex act possible in ohio kidnapper ’ s death fri oct 11 , 2013 04 : 20 am edt judge refuses to delay start of gay marriage in nj fri oct 11 , 2013 04 : 20 am edt legalize medicinal weed , tax it and reap benefits : readers react fri oct 11 , 2013 06 : 20 am edt community briefs : leadership , fundraiser for randlin fri oct 11 , 2013 06 : 20 am edt the latest news aggregated from top sources around the web amendment would omit most of long bar pointe from new manatee county ’ urban service area ’ fri oct 11 , 2013 02 : 10 am edt molina fires up arts festival in sarasota fri oct 11 , 2013 02 : 10 am edt on tap thursday wed oct 9 , 2013 8 : 10 pm edt kids , teachers take to the streets on walk to school day wed oct 9 , 2013 8 : 10 pm edt thanks to support , dunbar ’ s band plays on fri oct 11 , 2013 02 : 10 am edt ex-fgcu standouts adjust to overseas fri oct 11 , 2013 02 : 10 am edt doctors : get your flu shot now thu oct 10 , 2013 8 : 10 pm edt boynton community gears up for its first habitat paint-a-thon fri oct 11 , 2013 04 : 10 am edt citrix stock skids 12 % on reduced outlook thu oct 10 , 2013 8 : 10 pm edt snag a job at sawgrass fair thu oct 10 , 2013 8 : 10 pm edt boynton community gears up for its first habitat paint-a-thon thu oct 10 , 2013 8 : 10 pm edt jupiter man ’ s 2011 murder profiled on ’ 48 hours ’ thu oct 10 , 2013 8 : 10 pm edt what to do in and around baton rouge , la fri oct 11 , 2013 02 : 10 am edt gainesville wants direct flights to new york . thu oct 10 , 2013 8 : 10 pm edt officers , horses and a helicopter at gpd event fri oct 11 , 2013 02 : 10 am edt county adjusts priorities to pay for worker raises fri oct 11 , 2013 06 : 10 am edt starbucks ceo starts grassroots effort to end government shutdown thu oct 10 , 2013 6 : 10 pm edt find out who ’ s who in northeast florida logistics thu oct 10 , 2013 4 : 10 pm edt ’ guardians of rescue ’ lending canine support to veterans fri oct 11 , 2013 12 : 10 am edt master gardeners unveil year ’ s worth of work fri oct 11 , 2013 06 : 10 am edt exclusive : identity thieves busted by bso fri oct 11 , 2013 12 : 10 am edt rodent droppings found in restaurant ’ s rice fri oct 11 , 2013 12 : 10 am edt 3 waterspouts in middle keys fri oct 11 , 2013 02 : 10 am edt woman guilty in dui death fri oct 11 , 2013 04 : 10 am edt man accused of turning up the heat at restaurant fri oct 11 , 2013 02 : 10 am edt terminally ill man heads to his beloved gulf of mexico saturday thu oct 10 , 2013 10 : 10 pm edt former buffett house , adjacent parcels for sale fri oct 11 , 2013 12 : 10 am edt kerry in kl for business summit fri oct 11 , 2013 06 : 10 am edt felons behind manhunt remain in jail fri oct 11 , 2013 02 : 10 am edt benderson park in running for ncaa women ’ s rowing fri oct 11 , 2013 02 : 10 am edt new rules could add to long bar pointe costs fri oct 11 , 2013 12 : 10 am edt versace mansion art basel : a new tradition ? - slideshow thu oct 10 , 2013 6 : 10 pm edt rattlers still growing up on line fri oct 11 , 2013 02 : 10 am edt here comes the hype for fsu ’ s winston fri oct 11 , 2013 02 : 10 am edt ojo looks to take the next step fri oct 11 , 2013 02 : 10 am edt bobby talley ’ s love of sports led to a recreation business fri oct 11 , 2013 02 : 10 am edt otto : big guava still on amtrak fringe fri oct 11 , 2013 04 : 10 am edt paying too much for prescriptions ?
fri oct 11 , 2013 12 : 10 am edt adopted dog mistakenly euthanized by animal services fri oct 11 , 2013 02 : 10 am edt crist says he won ’ t run for young ’ s congressional seat thu oct 10 , 2013 10 : 10 pm edt richard mctear to be retried in baby ’ s death thu oct 10 , 2013 8 : 10 pm edt tbbj names 43 up & comers for 2013 fri oct 11 , 2013 06 : 10 am edt amazon acreage in ruskin sells for $ 14.6 million thu oct 10 , 2013 6 : 10 pm edt fishhawk mermaid forms nonprofit to aid children thu aug 8 , 2013 6 : 10 pm edt germans finding a slice of home at heidi ’ s gourmet hut in brandon wed aug 7 , 2013 8 : 10 pm edt o ’ neill : cair ads on hart buses a win for tolerance thu oct 10 , 2013 10 : 10 am edt fpl impostors target local restaurant fri oct 11 , 2013 12 : 10 am edt man robs psl game stop fri oct 11 , 2013 12 : 10 am edt kiribati man fights in new zealand courts for protection as ‘ climate refugee ’ island man fights for refuge from ‘ climate change ’ in new zealand one national park in the u.s. remains open — in new jersey water is one of those things just assumed to be good for you at all times , in all quantities .
it 's up there on the list of quintessentially nutritious foods and drinks with apples and broccoli and oatmeal .
water is so important and awesome , michelle obama wants you to drink more of it and she has created a whole new campaign around encouraging you to do so .
get the facts on fluoride and get yourself a fluoride filter !
just wondering , if you buy liquid in a plastic bottle but transfer it to glass or stainless steel when you get it home , will it be safe to drink then ?
it is for the most part safe .
" the leaching " of harmless elements in plastic takes an abnormal length of time .
the element in the plastic that is harmful , if you took a drop of that from a lab , that would be problematic .
and then there is the storage issue .
where and for how long has that water been in that bottle . ? ? ? ?
was it stored in a cool dry shipping and packing plant ?
or was it sitting in some humid climate or the hot sun that might breach the plastic composite ? ? ? ?
it is so good that you understand the need to keep your body hydrated . i too do not like the taste of tap water so i am with you on that . but , it is sad that your hydration depends on " those plastic bottles , " considering how they effect our our eco-system .
so basically this boils down to " water can be bad for you if you put things other than water in it .
or if you drink too much of it . "
how illuminating , huffpost .
how would i continue to live without you ?
we are way too germ / bacteria phobic . unless something is dirty or visible and gross it 's not such a big deal . we keep killing off the good germs that destroy the bad ones and leave ourselves defenseless against harmful germs . but what do i know . i drank out of a water hose too and would do it again today .
in a q & a with addictinginfo , jenkins said she plans to spend the bulk of the money on a car to get to work and to her community service commitments .
she ’ s also hoping to give some of it away .
" you intended to harm me , but god intended it for good to accomplish what is now being done .... "
wonder what ?
why son has the iphone and got it for a penny when the iphone5 came out .... who what is it you wonder ?
" so she now has a car to get to her community service ?
that tells me she is in trouble with the law . "
her " community service committment " could be with boys and girls clubs for all you know .
she did get in trouble with the law .
she got a new car with the fundraiser money .
her old car she totaled last year while she was driving under the influence .
she has it posted on her facebook page , saying she was in jail for 3 days .
probably working at red lobster to pay off her fines ...
rdc : les combats font des milliers de nouveaux déplacés dans le nord-kivu des hélicoptères de l ’ armée congolaise , les fardc , ont lancé une attaque , mercredi , près du quartier-général des rebelles du m23 .
l ’ information a été confirmée par les deux camps , mais le président du m23 , bertrand bisimwa , dément que ses positions aient été touchées durant l ’ attaque . & rdquo ; il n ’ ont attaqué aucune cible militaire , & bdquo ; dit bisimwa ; & rdquo ; ils n ’ ont attaqué que des maisons et des résidents aux alentours de rumangabo . & bdquo ; des médecins de la localité affirment que plusieurs enfants ont été tués et des maisons détruites .
les victimes seraient au nombre de quatre — trois enfants et un adulte — selon un médecin d ’ un hamuli ) a démenti l ’ information .
une patrouille de l 'armée congolaise à kibati , une patrouille de l 'armée congolaise à kibati , le 22 juillet 2013 la reprise des combats dans le nord-kivu a augmenté le nombre de personnes déplacées soit vers la capitale de la province , goma , soit vers d ’ autres villes ou même vers d ’ autres pays de la région .
ecoutez imane cherif , chargée d ’ information à l ’ agence humanitaire de l ’ onu , ocha , au nord-kivu , nous décrire la situation .
a washington , le département d ’ etat a lancé un appel au rwanda pour qu ’ il cesse tout appui aux rebelles du m23 et fasse le retrait de ses soldats de la république démocratique du congo . & rdquo ; nous croyons qu 'il y a un ensemble de preuves crédibles qui supportent les principales conclusions du rapport de human rights watch , y compris le soutien de hauts responsables rwandais au m23 et la présence de militaires rwandais en rdc .
nous appelons le rwanda à cesser immédiatement tout soutien au m23 , a retirer son personnel militaire de l 'est de la rdc et donner suite à ses engagements au titre de l ’ accord-cadre signé ( entre les pays de la région , & bdquo ; a dit jen psaki , porte-parole du département d ’ etat .
dans un entretien avec le service francophone de la voa , l ’ ambassadeur du rwanda aux etats-unis , mathilde mukantabana , a rejeté la thèse du soutien de kigali au m23 , disant que le rapport de human rights watch est entaché d ’ erreurs et ne 10 / 5 / 2012 - working in antarctica - are you up to the challenge ?
working in antarctica – are you up to the challenge ? exploded in burundi 's capital bujumbura as revellers were ushering in the new of midnight , a grenade exploded in the buyenzi neighbourhood , killing one and in the capital and across the country but two other grenades exploded in the the deal will determine the presence of us forces in afghanistan after most are withdrawn in 2014 .
a failure to reach an agreement could prompt washington to pull out all of its forces at the end of 2014 , an outcome known as the " zero option " .
the united ...
the west will wince at next year 's election in afghanistan ; but it has itself to blame • chaffin selected as office leader for olsson associates in lincoln for nearly a century the sower has been of help and assistance in catholic education .
we offer creative ideas and methods to give you confidence in accessing and passing on the riches of the faith in all its holiness , beauty and integrity .
published four times a year , the sower is a publication of the maryvale institute in birmingham , england .
the tff secretariat has often bragged that preparations for the premiership were complete – that everything was in place ready for the new season to get under way .
un secretary-general 's message on the international day of the girl child at the end of last week i was invited to an event on fundraising to support needy students who are studying at kibasila secondary school .
this event was organized by roots and shoots club at the school .
complaints on operation to get rid of illegal immigrants should be addressed indeed , this is a laudable idea that was the brainchild of the international inspiration tanzania women ’ s task force which met recently at the british council in dar es salaam .
an interesting workshop on auditing issues in tanzania was held in dar es salaam during the last week of august 2013 , and some of us got the opportunity to be participants .
one may as well say it was unique , in the sense that unlike many other professional meetings which normally bring together birds of a feather to professionally flock together , this time around you had a combination of a professional auditors and laymen and women , who for two consecutive days seriously deliberated on auditing matters – in the interests of the general public .
as football federations on the continent get on with the weighty business of improving african football , the need to cherish the past while trying to boldly seize the future is absolutely important .
it is sad to note that despite its great potential , women ’ s football in the country has still yet to take off in a really meaningful and significant way .
roger slack in his article ’ pedactice - the use of multimedia in schools ’ which was published in september , 1999 , comments that the growth of information and communication technology ( ict ) in society is reflected in policies to encourage the use of ict in education and the development of educational multimedia .
the 2013 global corruption barometer report , published annually by transparency international , is now on the bookshelves and online .
for some of us who happened to attend the smart partnership movement meeting held in dar es salaam last week for the first time , the event was an eye opener in a number of ways .
who 'll bell the cat for evasion of tax by multinational companies ?
are we becoming wealthier because nation is doing well economically ?
over the years , a lot of foreign aid has been given to africa but many believe that a great chunk of this aid has been squandered , to the detriment of those people on the continent , who were supposed to be the main beneficiaries of this assistance .
mtu wa kwanza kujitokeza hadharani na kuhoji mamlaka makubwa aliyonayo mkurugenzi wa mashtaka ( dpp ) , alikuwa ni mkurugenzi mkuu wa taasisi ya kuzuia na kupambana na rushwa tanzania ( takukuru ) , dk .
who says the country should go back to analogue broadcasting ?
as they put the finishing touches to their preparations for today ’ s return leg of their caf champions league tie against recreativo de libolo of angola , simba were all too aware that they are under fire at the moment .
scott hahnchristopher westtheology of the body institutetheology of the bodytheology of the body for teenstheology of the body for teens leadeship trainingdefenders of the catholic faith , steve raypeter kreeft how to improve quality of education in the caribbean for the next generation ?
regional cxc examination results to be released in st kitts burundi : un collectif contre la vie chère se monte pour dénoncer de nouvelles taxes burundi : un collectif contre la vie chère se monte pour dénoncer de le gouvernement burundais vient d ’ adopter un projet de budget révisé qui institue de nouvelles taxes , qui vont frapper tous les produits ou presque de la vie courante , et l ’ a envoyé à l ’ assemblé nationale , qui doit l ’ adopter ce mardi 23 juillet .
lundi , plus de 200 personnes ont répondu à l ’ appel lancé par le collectif campagne contre la vie chère au burundi , pour participer à une des dizaines de personnes , des jeunes et des vieux , hommes et femmes , se sont succédé au micro pendant trois heures pour dénoncer la volonté du gouvernement et pour une fois , oubliée la peur d ’ être fichés par les services secrets : les gens n ’ ont pas hésité à décliner leur identité avant d ’ exprimer librement leurs sentiments .
certains ont appelé à la grève générale , d ’ autres au boycott des transports publics ou de la bière , la boisson nationale au burundi . & bdquo ; le pouvoir veut notre mort « , a renchéri rose , la soixantaine .
pacifique , un jeune homme d ’ à peine vingt ans s ’ est attiré un franc succès avec sa référence à la & bdquo ; ça ne peut pas continuer comme ça , car nous n ’ avons plus rien à perdre , s 'est-il exclamé .
comme on l ’ a vu en egypte .
n 'ayons pas peur nous aussi .
le moment est venu pour les burundais de descendre dans la rue .
« l ’ adoption par l ’ assemblée nationale du projet de budget révisé , prévue dans un premier temps ce lundi , a été reportée au 23 juillet .
pacifique nininahazwe , un des leaders du collectif campagne contre la vie chère en appelle aux députés burundais . & bdquo ; je demande aux députés d ’ écouter le message de la population , qui se dit excédée , et qui indique que si une telle mesure était adoptée par les parlementaires , la population est prête à aller dans la rue .
« mais tout le monde sait que l ’ espoir d ’ être entendu est mince , très mince .
ce collectif se prépare déjà à un bras de fer avec le pouvoir .
pheasant hunting kickoff planned fri oct 11 , 2013 02 : 26 am edt scarecrows take up roost in campbell park sat oct 5 , 2013 8 : 26 pm edt closed by shutdown thu oct 3 , 2013 10 : 26 am edt walking deadwood zombie run still on for saturday thu oct 10 , 2013 10 : 26 pm edt south dakota ag ’ s office investigating use of taser on girl , 8 thu oct 10 , 2013 8 : 26 pm edt spearfish calls on residents to aid clean up ; starts curbside pickup thu oct 10 , 2013 8 : 26 pm edt sd governor mulling fed offer on mount rushmore thu oct 10 , 2013 8 : 26 pm edt sd ag ’ s office investigating use of taser on girl , 8 thu oct 10 , 2013 6 : 26 pm edt sd police chief defends use of stun gun on girl , 8 wed oct 9 , 2013 8 : 26 pm edt o ’ gorman senior czarnecki set in winning ways fri oct 11 , 2013 04 : 26 am edt police : man who set himself ablaze on mall dies sat oct 5 , 2013 6 : 26 pm edt the data center wars continue : alpheus invests in new facility thu oct 10 , 2013 4 : 27 pm edt menil collection reveals renderings of campus redesign thu oct 10 , 2013 2 : 27 pm edt lubbock man who killed parents is put to death wed oct 9 , 2013 10 : 27 pm edt caught on camera : burglars ransack family ’ s home fri oct 11 , 2013 12 : 27 am edt hisd raises tax rate by 3 cents thu oct 10 , 2013 10 : 27 pm edt obama , gop in talks on two frontsshutdown 's effects begin to ripple out markets to gop : thanks for taking the threat of default off the table for now a. camden walkerthe clouds and periodic rain / drizzle are in it to win it .
for a few more days still .
articlesarvis won ’ t be in final debate of va. governor ’ s race fredrick kunklethe libertarian candidate fell short of the polling threshold of 10 percent , according to the event ’ s co-host .
ben pershingken cuccinelli ii and terry mcauliffe use campaign surrogates , illustrating their strengths and weaknesses .
the man who set himself on fire friday was identified on as 64-year-old john constantino of n.j. whom is the government shutdown helping ?
believe it or not , there are some who are benefiting .
also , the country generally has a huge shortage of accountants at all levels and hence the graduating of at least 656 people with degrees in accountancy recognised by nbaa , cpa is a plus to the nation .
earlier during the ceremony , nbaa chairman , dr mussa hassan , said due to shortage of accountants in the country , they were constructing a centre for accountancy in kinondoni municipality .
barcelona had to wait until the dying seconds of injury time to see off a dogged sevilla side at the nou camp in la liga . ( 9 / 14 / 2013 4 : 53 : 08 pm ) “ if you are a hunter , the beginning of october is prime time , ” said whit fosburgh , president and ceo of the theodore roosevelt conservation partnership ( motto : “ guaranteeing you a place to hunt and fish ” ) .
fosburgh was on the call .
“ it ’ s duck hunting season coming up , we ’ ve got the migratory birds flying over , ” stepp said .
“ if we are able to fill the gap , the governor said , let ’ s do it .
eighteen percent – that ’ s a lot of money .
we stand to lose tremendously more if we shut the park .
“ i don ’ t know how you close off a forest or how you barricade the mississippi . ”
in florida , where horn was visiting this week , “ we have this big wedge of water called florida bay ” in everglades national park .
“ the bay is ‘ closed . ’
you can ’ t go fishing in the bay .
but there are no boundary signs in the bay , you don ’ t know when you ’ re in the park or out of the park .
there are no buoys .
it ’ s theater of the absurd .
you go up there in a boat , there ’ s no gate . ”
" in memories we were rich .
we had pierced the veneer of outside things .
we had ' suffered , starved and triumphed , groveled down yet grasped at glory , grown bigger in the bigness of the whole . '
we had seen god in his splendors , heard the text that nature renders. we had reached the naked soul of man . " ( shackleton , south , describing the end of the crossing of south georgia ) © 2013 indexmundi - all rights reserved tajikistan | reliefweb en afrique de l ’ ouest , les prix des produits alimentaires étaient stables ou ont diminué en novembre tandis que leurs disponibilités continuaient à s ’ améliorer avec la campagne de commercialisation en cours .
des hausses de prix ont eu lieu plus tôt que prévu dans des centres urbains de la région et dans les zones structurellement déficitaires en raison des flux limités de produits en provenance des régions de production excédentaire .
the year on year rise for the commodity in region ’ s markets was 36 percent .
one-fifth of the world ’ s children are the most vulnerable to vaccine preventable diseases .
repatriation still a far cry in bhutan , says exiled journalist sashastra seema bal seizes rhino horns worth rs 33 lakh what are some of the reasons that a post would be removed ?
janine urbaniak reid , a writer in the san francisco bay area , is working on a memoir about her son ’ s diagnosis .
she is on twitter : @ j9marier .
the post ’ s view : medical-device tax repeal is an idea full of holes bleacher reportsee realtime coveragewinless new york giants need to move on from tom coughlinbleacher report- & lrm ; 23 minutes ago & lrm ; head coach tom coughlin is not part of the solution for the new york giants .
he is a big part of the problem for the 0-6 giants and needs to face the music for a team which he has had every opportunity to mold in his image.related tom coughlin new york giants ' tom coughlin plans to return for 2014nfl.com - by gregg rosenthalliving in the moment , however miserableespn ( blog ) - by dan grazianosee all 18 sourcesrelated tom coughlin why ’ bone ’ s ’ jeff smith is a great addition to cbldf board maria de villota dead : spanish formula one test driver found dead in hotelhuffington postmaria de villota : formula one test driver found dead in sevillecnn internationalsee all 280 sourcesrelated maría de villota film 's formula is one good rushbendigo advertiser 'rush ' goes inside formula one and two of its titansdaily star onlinein depth : in ' rush , ' competing drivers pursue the thrill of it allnew york timessee all 27 sourcesrelated rush noumea , new caledonia — public health laboratories in the pacific islands are very diverse in their structure and resources — ranging in size from one employee to up to a hundred — but they all aim to provide equitable and high-quality services to the people of the pacific . ( 9 / 22 / 2013 10 : 14 : 32 am ) messi out of running as suarez & van persie chase unlikely top scorer in world cup qualification psu botany professor cited for one of his plant discoveries starbucks founder urges ceos to push for end to federal shutdown safe environment > child lures preventionclick here to enter child lures prevention web site en 1990 le front patriotique rwandais ( fpr ) , une organisation politico-militaire , lançait une offensive contre le gouvernement rwandais , dirigé à l ’ époque par le en 1991 , une nouvelle constitution , garantissant le multipartisme et les libertés publiques , est adoptée .
se créent alors des partis d ’ oppositions , dont trois démarrent avec un franc succès , notamment le mouvement démocratique en 1993 , des accords de paix sont signés entre le fpr , le gouvernement rwandais et les autres partis d ’ opposition .
la guerre cesse mais les tensions entre le 6 avril 1994 le président habyarimana est assassiné dans l ’ attentat contre son avion et la guerre reprend .
elle est plus intense à kigali où les accords ont permis au fpr d ’ installer officiellement un bataillon composé de 600 hommes .
au même moment les massacres d ’ extermination sont perpétrés sur la quasi totalité du territoire rwandais .
le fpr s ’ en prend aux hutu tandis que les milices anti-fpr s ’ en prennent aux tutsi et aux hutu accusés de collaboration avec le fpr .
c ’ est le génocide rwandais , devenu génocide des tutsi , excluant dès sa prise de pouvoir en juillet 94 , le fpr continue ses massacres contre mais la chasse aux hutu ne débute pas en 1994 .
en effet elle commence juste après l ’ attaque du fpr , fin 1990 .
dès cette date , les hutus des zones contrôlées par ce dernier font l ’ objet de massacres , de tortures et d ’ exploitation .
les survivants s ’ entassent dans des camps de déplacés qui parfois sont visés par des attaques de cette rébellion .
en 1993 le nombre de déplacés entassés dans des camps , dans des conditions de misères est environ de 1 million , près de la les plus importants de ces massacres d ’ avant 1994 sont : celui de ruhengeri en janvier 1991 , où plus de 500 personnes sont exécutées , femmes et enfants inclus ; celui de butaro en mai 1992 avec 150 victimes et , surtout , celui de février 1993 où près de 40 000 personnes sont massacrés par le fpr dans les préfectures de byumba et ruhengeri ( james k. gasana , rwanda : du parti-état a en avril 1994 , le fpr conquiert de vastes zones en un temps record .
les hutu trouvés sur place sont massacrés et leurs corps brûlés , jetés dans les rivières ou dans certains cas entassés à des fins de manipulation des journalistes après sa prise de pouvoir en juillet 1994 , le fpr massacre les hutu sur l ’ ensemble du territoire .
le cas le plus documenté est le massacre des déplacés hutu de kibeho , dans l ’ ancienne préfecture de gikongoro , en avril 1995 , où les déplacés sont encerclés et interdits de sortir du camp pendant plusieurs jours avant d ’ être massacrés par coups de fusil , coups de canon et baïonnettes .
tout se passe devant les militaires de l ’ onu qui observent l ’ opération , prennent des photos mais ne secourent personne .
a la fin de la journée plus de 8000 personnes avaient été massacrées , sur les 100 000 qu ’ abritait le camp .
selon un témoin direct , les corps furent entassés dans des camions transportés dans les forêts avoisinantes , où ils furent brulés ou enterrés dans des fosses communes .
dans d ’ autres régions du pays , le fpr convoquait des réunions de villages sur la sécurité ou de distribution de nourritures .
dès que suffisamment de monde s ’ était réuni , il les massacrait soit avec les armes blanches ou par balles , grenades et bombes selon le nombre des cibles ou encore les brulait vifs .
selon une enquête de l ’ onu , conduite en 1994 , connue sous l ’ appellation de & rdquo ; gersony report & bdquo ; ces massacres étaient systématiques , réguliers , visaient la population hutue et ce indistinctement , les hommes les femmes , les enfants , les personnes âgées ainsi que les malades .
ce rapport estimait qu ’ entre 25 000 et 45 000 personnes avaient été massacrées entre avril et août 1994 rien que dans les les zones des massacres étaient interdites d ’ accès jusqu ’ à ce que les victimes soient dégagées et brulées .
ce fut le cas par exemple pour plusieurs endroits de l ’ ancienne préfecture de butare , au sud du pays .
en octobre 1996 , le fpr attaque le congo où étaient refugiés plus de deux d ’ octobre 1996 à juillet 1997 , ces refugiés furent traqués , torturés , violés , délibérément affamés , privés de toute assistance , massacrés à l ’ arme blanche , l ’ onu a fait une enquête dont les résultats , & rdquo ; le mapping report & bdquo ; d ’ octobre 2010 ne laissent aucun doute quant à l ’ intention [ massacrés à l ’ arme blanche , piégés , violées avant d ’ être tuées : l ’ exemple de dans cette région , les massacres ont été organisés selon un schéma quasi identique [ à celui des autres régions , ndlr ] , de façon à tuer un maximum de victimes .
à chaque fois qu ’ ils repéraient une grande concentration de réfugiés , les militaires de l ’ afdl / apr tiraient sur eux de manière indiscriminée à l ’ arme lourde et à l ’ arme légère .
ils promettaient ensuite aux rescapés de les aider à après les avoir rassemblés sous différents prétextes , ils les tuaient le plus souvent à coups de marteau ou de houe .
ceux qui tentaient de fuir étaient tués par balles .
plusieurs témoins ont affirmé qu ’ en 1999 [ deuxième guerre après celle de 1996 , ndlr ] , des militaires de l ’ apr se seraient rendus spécialement sur les sites de plusieurs massacres afin de déterrer les corps et de brûler les à partir du 9 décembre 1996 , des militaires de l ’ afdl / apr ont tué par balles plusieurs centaines de réfugiés , parmi lesquels un grand nombre de femmes et d ’ enfants au niveau du pont de hombo .
au cours des jours suivants , ils ont brûlé vifs un nombre indéterminé de réfugiés au bord de la route au niveau de la localité de kampala , située à quelques kilomètres de hombo .
avant d ’ être tuées , de nombreuses femmes ont été violées par les militaires .
avant de les tuer , les militaires avaient demandé aux victimes de se regrouper en vue de leur au cours d ’ avril 1997 , alors qu ’ entre 60 et 120 réfugiés mourraient chaque jour de maladie ou d ’ épuisement , les militaires de l ’ afdl / apr ont , à plusieurs reprises , interdit l ’ accès des camps aux organismes et ong à vocation humanitaire et entravé le rapatriement des réfugiés vers le rwanda .
vers la fin d ’ avril 1997 , des éléments de l ’ afdl / apr ont brûlé vifs des réfugiés au niveau du village de lolengi , à 48 kilomètres de boende .
les militaires ont recouvert les corps des victimes de bâches en plastique qu ’ ils le 13 mai 1997 , des éléments de l ’ afdl / apr , à leur arrivée dans le village de réfugiés & bdquo ; .
ils se sont ensuite dirigés vers le camp et ont ouvert le feu sur le même jour , les militaires sont entrés dans le bureau de la croix-rouge locale et ont tué des enfants non accompagnés qui attendaient leur rapatriement vers le le même jour , la population de wendji a enterré 116 corps .
un bébé de trois mois environ qui était encore vivant au moment de l ’ enterrement a été tué par un militaire de l ’ afdl / apr qui supervisait les travaux d ’ inhumation .
le 14 mai , 17 l ’ onu conclut que d ’ après les résultats de son enquête , la qualification de génocide peut être retenue pour les crimes commis contre les hutus , refugiés et présent rapport , ayant ciblé de très nombreux réfugiés hutu rwandais ainsi que des membres de la population civile hutu [ congolaise , ndlr ] et causé leur mort , révèlent plusieurs éléments accablants qui , s ’ ils sont prouvés devant un en considérant les périodes des massacres , le fait que même les bébés n ’ étaient pas épargnés et que même les hutu congolais ont été visés par les massacres il n ’ y a aucun doute quant à l ’ identité des victimes ni au mobile de leurs bourreaux : les hutu étaient visés et ce , parce qu ’ ils sont nés hutu .
l ’ épisode congolais ne marque pas la fin de leur calvaire .
l ’ extermination exemple , en décembre 1997 , on estime à 8000 victimes hutues qui ont étés brulées comme mentionné plus haut , le fait que le régime du fpr a requalifié le génocide rwandais en génocide des tutsi , a exclu les victimes hutues .
la seule commémoration officielle autorisée au rwanda étant celle du génocide des tutsi , les victimes hutues se retrouvent sans cadre de commémoration officiellement au-delà de cette interdiction de fait , quiconque ose parler de ces victimes hutues est accusé pêle-mêle de négationnisme , divisionnisme , révisionnisme ou de minimisation du génocide des tutsi du rwanda , à l ’ instar de victoire ingabire , actuellement emprisonnée à kigali .
en belgique , il est traité de négationniste , génocidaire ou de membre des familles de génocidaire ( la libre.be du 7 avril 2013 ) ou pire comparé à nazi .
citons le cas du député alain destexhe qui , sur son compte twitter le 7 avril 2013 , a comparé aux & rdquo ; nazi & bdquo ; les commémorants qui entendaient honorer la mémoire de toutes les victimes de la tragédie rwandaise .
la faute de ces derniers est d ’ avoir osé aller se souvenir au mémorial du génocide rwandais à bruxelles , le 6 avril plutôt que le 7 , date de la tutsies , ibuka et d ’ avoir voulu commémorer toutes les victimes indépendamment de depuis 1990 , soit plus de 22 ans actuellement , aucune juridiction n ’ a rendu le rwanda a interdit à toute personne de réclamer justice pour les hutu et ce , par des menaces et des actes de violence .
pendant que les juridictions gacaca ont été instituées pour rendre justice à toutes les victimes , les hutu n ’ ont jamais eu une juridiction vers laquelle se tourner .
exception faite de la justice espagnole où , profitant des victimes espagnoles tuées par le fpr , des associations de droits de l ’ homme ont inclu des victimes hutues .
néanmoins , cette justice s ’ est arrêtée à lancer des mandats d ’ arrêts qui le cas le plus aberrant est certainement celui du tribunal pénal international pour le rwanda dont la mission était de juger les crimes commis au rwanda de janvier à décembre 1994 .
malgré les instructions détaillées de certains dossiers incriminant des officiers du fpr , le tribunal a toujours fermé les yeux .
pire encore , le tribunal a à plusieurs reprises obéi aux ordres du régime du fpr ou , au moins , cédé à ses menaces .
un des exemples est celui de mr barayagwiza jean-bosco .
en novembre 1999 la chambre d ’ appel a constaté que ses droits de défense avaient été violés au point que ni son arrestation ni son acte d ’ accusation n ’ étaient légaux .
elle a alors ordonné sa mise en liberté et la nullité de son acte d ’ accusation .
dès lors le régime rwandais menaça d ’ arrêter toute collaboration avec le tribunal .
la chambre d ’ appel a dû revenir sur sa décision ..
par la suite , le tribunal le condamna à 32 ans de prison et il y mourra en 2010 .
un autre exemple est la tentative du procureur du tpir carla del des fonctionnaires rwandais ont empêché des témoins de se rendre au tribunal , entraînant la suspension de plusieurs procès pendant des mois & bdquo ; .
par la suite , carla del ponte a été limogé son de son poste et remplacé par hasan jallow et c ’ est la fin de l ’ espoir de voir le tpir juger des membres du fpr .
dans d ’ autres cas , des témoins d ’ accusations sont revenus sur leurs dires et ont affirmé avoir été menacés par les services de renseignement du fpr mais également ont été entraînés pour donner de faux témoignages [ 2 ] .
malgré que ce phénomène qui semble s ’ être généralisé dans toutes les juridictions , au rwanda , en belgique et au tpir , celui-ci les a toujours ignorés .
ce fut le cas , par exemple , dans les procès de karemera ( témoin surnommé bth pour sa sécurité ) , bicamumpaka ( témoin gfa ) et en belgique dans le procès des religieuses .
en belgique , seuls des hutu ont été jugés .
plusieurs officiels affirment que la seule raison qui explique cette discrimination est qu ’ il n ’ existe aucune plainte visant les membres du fpr .
cependant , des témoins ont vu des personnes visées par les mandats d ’ arrêts espagnols aller et venir en belgique sans être inquiétés .
c ’ est le cas , entre autres , du général james kabarebe aujourd ’ hui depuis le génocide de 1994 , les hutu ont été collectivement et systématiquement l ’ objectif de ces manœuvres semble être , d ’ une part , d ’ assimiler les victimes hutues aux bourreaux des tutsi , et les bourreaux des hutu , c ’ est-à-dire le fpr , aux victimes tutsies .
ainsi le fpr se retrouve victime comme les réelles victimes tutsies tandis que ce sont les victimes hutues qui se retrouvent plusieurs éléments ont concouru à cette manœuvre cynique .
en effet , l ’ organisation de la justice a permis au fpr d ’ accuser qui il veut d ’ être prisonniers politiques , d ’ opposants et des humanitaires tels que monsieur paul le fait de voir des jugements , au rwanda comme à l ’ étranger , qui ne respectent pas le principe d ’ impartialité a fait régner une peur constante chez les hutu. justice canadienne qui a condamné une personne parce qu ’ elle n ’ avait pas été tuée pendant le génocide .
selon cette justice les hutu modérés ont été tués pendant le génocide .
ce qui fait de tout hutu survivant un non-modéré donc en plus de cette partialité , comme dit plus haut , le fpr a utilisé de manière généralisée des faux témoins qu ’ il a entrainé à mentir avant de les envoyer témoigner .
on retrouve des aveux de certains des faux témoins qui ont témoigné a cela il faut ajouter le rôle des médias et des sion de diabolisation de la population hutue et de blanchiment du fpr .
toutes ces injustices ont fait que beaucoup de hutu se cachent , taisent leur horrifiant calvaire .
etant victimes des juridictions censées les protéger , ils n ’ osent pas y avoir recours et de toute façon ils n ’ en ont pas les moyens .
en tout cas pas à la hauteur de leur bourreau , le fpr à la tête de l ’ etat rwandais , le principal et prioritaire souci des hutu est encore , de survivre à cette force est de constater que tant que la double mission sera poursuivie , les tensions entre les hutu et les tutsi continueront à s ’ intensifier et ce à tord , renforcera les criminels qui ne feront que les opprimer et les exploiter encore la question est : il y a-t- il un espoir de solution ?
la reconnaissance du calvaire des hutu ainsi que sa qualification semblent constituer une étape obligée ; sans laquelle c ’ est leur diabolisation orchestrée par leur bourreau qui continuera à autoriser , cautionner , encourager et couvrir notamment au congo .
l ’ autre condition nécessaire est celle de disposer de leaders engagés à la construction d ’ un avenir commun pour l ’ ensemble de la kazakhstan : finding obstacles in the path to a new eu agreement if you live in florida , you may be good to go ( 9 / 16 / 2013 3 : 06 : 49 pm ) these aren ’ t lame praises .
the media houses in this country have done a commendable job since the liberalization of the industry over two decades ago – so the last thing any sane person would want to see is an improvement on the 1976 act .
the pros and cons of cutting aid to egypt will it hurt u.s. interests to cut the aid ?
would it tarnish our reputation to keep it ?
wed oct 09 15 : 12 : 14 utc 2013 the best and worst countries to be elderly the united states is one of the best countries in the world to grow old .
thu oct 03 17 : 30 : 25 utc 2013 how american jews think about israel is the “ crisis of american zionism ” getting worse ?
thu oct 03 11 : 02 : 38 utc 2013 malala 's nobel loss disappoints school girls in pakistanabc newspakistan 's girls learn a hard lessonfinancial timesfrom pakistan : pm nawaz calls malala pakistan 's pridethe news internationalsee all 796 sourcesrelated malala yousafzai the senate ’ s top republican has been neutered by his fear of the tea party .
ted cruz ’ s phony obamacare filibuster was really about . . .
ted cruz " as we were getting her of the beach a heavy surf came up & owing to us being unable to get her up of the beach she almost capsized as it was she emptied myself & vincent overboard . "
( mcnish , diary ) pigeons and cormorants spotted , heavy fog persists , lumpy cross swells " hove too at 8a.m. & put out sea anchor at 3p.m. , heavy sprays breaking over the boat & freezing solid " how can i get professional reprints of , or permission to use , individual articles or videos ?
you generally do not need permission to post a link to content on washingtonpost.com or to embed videos using post-provided embed codes .
how can i get reprints of , or permission to use , editorial cartoons or comics ?
the ice sheet both transports and concentrates the meteorites as it slips off the plateaus and churns against the mountains .
the meteorites are generally found in the ' blue ice ' areas of antarctica , which are expanses of old ice kept free of snow by constant winds .
areas of sublimating ( evaporating ) ice allow the meteorites to gradually ' rise ' to the surface .
most of the fun may be in the finding , but the science is taken seriously to the point of keeping the meteorites frozen until they can be returned to a " clean lab , " where they are treated with the same care that was given to the samples returned from the moon .
welcome to thewebpagefor thedepartmentof catechesis , r.c.i.a. and lay apostolate of the diocese ofduluth .
" the definitive aim of catechesis isto put people not only in touch but in communion , in intimacy , withjesus christ : only he can lead us to the love of the father in the spirit and make us share in the life of the trinity . "
( john paul ii , on catechesis in our time # 5 ) catechesis is not only for children .
it is for every human person god ever created , and will create .
the goal of catechesis is to put all people into intimate communion with jesus christ .
this means two things .
first , all catechesis is sacramental preparation .
in the eucharist we receive jesus christ , fully god and fully man , body , blood , soul and divinity .
there can be no more intimate communion with christ this side of the grave .
second , the definitive aim of catechesis is to lead people to a life of holiness in order to live in the midst of the life-giving love of the trinity for all eternity .
yes , the goal of catechesis is to be a saint .
all human persons have a right to all that god intends , and thedepartment of catechesis , r.c.i.a. and lay apostolateis dedicated to forming catechetical leaders and catechists in this mission .
catechist prayeryou , o god , are my strength , my patience , my light and my councel .
it is you who make responsive to me the students confided to my care .
abandon me not to myself for one moment .
for my own conduct and for that of my students , grant me the spirit of wisdom and understanding , the spirit of knowledge and piety , the spirit of holy fear of you , and an ardent zeal to procure your glory .
i unite my effortsto those of jesus christ , the master teacher , andi beg the most blessed virgin , st. joseph and pope st. pius x , to assist me in the exercise of my teaching ministry .
amen . diocese of duluth - catholic church in northeastern minnesota according to information available at the national service ’ s website , one has the freedom to postpone joining the service by simply writing to the national service . & ldquo ; a student who has been enrolled at a university can write and send the letter to our headquarters , postponing the decision to join the service . & rdquo ; annys shinthe men will be tried on sexual-assault charges despite a military judge ’ s recommendation .
jacqueline kantorthe patuxent community rallied around rafiq douglas and his brother in a time of need .
now the panthers ’ star running back is excelling for his community .
stomach on empty ?
fill ’ er up at a gas station .
the technology is known mostly for air assaults , but you can get a personal flier online for $ 300 or less .
fun seekers flock to manassas for the rides , food and games .
on the final day , visitors enjoy a monster of a show .
the two parties can deal , if obama will let them .
how bill mckibben became a leader of the environmental movement .
obama ’ s war on leaks has journalists and their sources on edge . ’ as soon as we landed in the united states , i felt : we are safe . ’
muhanned al-kusairy was the washington post ’ s security chief in baghdad from 2003 to 2009 .
he moved with his family to phoenix in 2010 and longs for the day when he can protect his new country as a deputy sheriff .
is the fight for gay marriage the new civil rights movement ?
travel and adventure : on providenciales in the turks and caicos islands what ’ s old is new again : burger king being built on former bk site thu oct 10 , 2013 9 : 17 pm edt billings clinic introduces expresscare tue oct 8 , 2013 11 : 17 pm edt red horse squadron to deploy to colorado fri oct 11 , 2013 01 : 17 am edt apple announces two new iphones fri sep 13 , 2013 3 : 17 pm edt argos next up for streaking skylights thu oct 10 , 2013 3 : 17 pm edt havre high harriers back at it thu oct 10 , 2013 3 : 17 pm edt east helena vfw sued in dui death thu oct 10 , 2013 05 : 17 am edt smelly situation wasnt dangerous fri oct 11 , 2013 01 : 17 am edt massive beams put in place thu oct 10 , 2013 11 : 17 pm edt feds to let states pay to re-open national parks thu oct 10 , 2013 5 : 17 pm edt the split in the republican party thu oct 10 , 2013 3 : 17 pm edt missoula schoolchildren get eyes checked via donated machine thu oct 10 , 2013 11 : 17 pm edt baucus sees ’ a little headway ’ in shutdown , default negotiations thu oct 10 , 2013 11 : 17 pm edt jpmorgan is spending an insane amount on legal feesapmore businesskrugman wrong ? ..
fed blame ..
big walmart fail ..
fired , how ? ..
freaky holidays ..
obamacare yikes nsfw photo series will make you rethink masculinity carrie levyhot on starbucks petition seeks end to dc spatcnnmoneystick to the coffee , schultzdaily beastopinion : starbucks to the rescue ? wall street journalsee all 231 sourcesrelated howard schultz starbucks accused of copying the duffin , a donut-muffin hybridtimeduffingate : starbucks unveils doughnut , muffin mashup to uproarlos angeles times - by rene lynchhighly cited : starbucks in a jam over ' duffingate 'nbcnews.comsee all 55 sourcesrelated doughnuts miley 's been in the news all the time , thanks to an " snl " hosting gig and twitter feud with sinead o 'connor .
" sleepy hollow " got renewed for a second season already , while " glee " released a very depressing preview .
so far , d.c. has endured a shutdown , a faltering obamacare kickoff , and a fatal shooting at the capitol .
at school , he was a bright student and was only 16 years old when he started at the university of sydney .
this new frontier had mawson in its spell and he knew he had to return .
mawson was near death - his feet were bloody , his skin was falling away and he had lost a lot of weight .
for the rest of his life sir douglas worked as professor of geology at the university of adelaide and was involved in forestry , farming and the conservation of the unique wildlife in our oceans .
the chief secretary ambassador ombeni sefue on thursday urged tanzanians to safeguard national ict network and make good use of it to speed up national development .
impure because they have the proof they had sex ?
impure because they have to eat meat to sustain the fetus ?
any other idea why ?
fruit treesfeeding and wateringestablishing a new lawnshrubslawn fertilizergardening tipscommon lawn problemsweed controlsprinklerssoil preparationcaring for rosesmaking container gardenswhen to plant bulbs razorbacksone moore thoughtask a wildlife officerhogs & sec videolocal sportsnhl businessauto guidebeauty guidecareer guidefinance guidehealth guidehome guidelegal guideoutdoor guidemore guides arkansas spinal carecampbell financial serviceschenal mridiscount brake and tirej .
oliver ’ s jewelryrv citytazikis mediterranean cafeunink tattoo removalwilson auctioneerswindow source arkansas ' most wantedemail alertsfamily healthgood day arkansasgood earth green houseidol chatterjob alertlive weather camerasmobilenewslinksneighborhood crime trackerpolitical newsrants and raveswhat 's going aroundmayflower oil spillstop bullying announcementsauto & transmission servicesbuilding & homebusiness & serviceseducation and instructionfarming & live stockmerchandisepetsreal estatetransportation othertravel & leisuretrucks & vehicles auto insuranceautomotive parts & systemscaring for your carelectricalenginesfuel & oilfuel systemgeneral informationgeneral maintenance & repairshandling emergenciesnew carsother automotive systemsoptionspre-owned carspreventive careprofessional repairstires featured jobsjobs in the newsjobs at fox16benefitscareers & educationdisciplinediscriminationdocuments & recordselectronic communicationsfinancial aidfinding a jobgeneral informationgetting additional informationhiringinterview tipsinterview typesjob fairsnegotiatingof interest to employerspayrollthe resumesafety & healthterminationtestingwhistle blower claims ( government fraud ) your job & the law banking & finance guidecredit counseling guideinsurance guidemortgage guidetax guidetax law guide electrical guidefurniture guideheating & air conditioning guidehome design & remodeling guidehome safety & security guidehousehold guideinterior designmortgage guidemoving guidepest control guideplumbing guidepool guidereal estate guidereal estate law guideroofing guidewater treatment guide bail bond guidebankruptcy guidecriminal law guideelder law guidefamily law guidegeneral legal guideimmigration & naturalizationlabor & employment lawmalpractice guidepersonal injury guidereal estate law guidesocial security & disabilitytax law guideworkers ' compensation boating basicstypes of outdoor furnishingsscuba divinggolf fundamentalsgolf equipmentgolf general informationgolf playing tipspool tablesfishingtypes of watercrafton the watergrillingoutdoor furnishingshuntinghiking & camping kindergartennewborn caregeneral informationhelping at homepediatric emergenciestravel caretypes of childcarepreschool / daycareselecting a schoolgrades one through sixchild safety in childcarechildcare trainingchild developmentchildcare & healthchoosing childcaredecisions about disciplinedental careparental concerns about teenscurriculum animal first aidcatscommon problems in animalsdogsgroomingnutrition in animalsolder petsother pets / exotic animalspet carepreventing problems in animalspuppies & kittensveterinariansveterinary oncology curriculumgrades one through sixtypes of childcarechildren 's activitiespreschool / daycareselecting a schoolhelping at homekindergartentravel carechildcare & healthchildcare trainingchild developmentchild safety in childcaredental caregeneral informationchoosing childcaredecisions about discipline site commentssponsorship requesttv tools for parentsviewer photos and videosviral videoeventsbig dam bridge 100light the nightstop bullying 90 seconds in the kitchencommunity eventscw arkansasel latinofox networkidol chatter president jakaya kikwete has ordered rufiji basin development authority ( rubada ) to immediately discuss and offer at least 32,000 ha of land to two firms in the authority ’ s project .
president jakaya kikwete has officially declared an end to contentions pitting tanzania with rwanda on the country ’ s northwestern frontier .
remarking on the contention at his month end speech last night , the president referred to his last speech at the end of july this year , noting on difficulties in tanzania-rwanda relations , armed robberies and illegal migration in kigoma , geita and kagera regions .
the european union delegation in tanzania said it was concerned by the recent decision of the government to suspend publication of ’ mwananchi ’ and ’ mtanzania ’ newspapers .
president jakaya kikwete has sent a congratulatory message to president of the republic of korea park geun-hye , on the occasion of the national foundation day marked yesterday .
in a statement availed to the guardian yesterday by the ministry of foreign affairs and international co-operation president kikwete extended his sincere congratulations to the government and people of the republic of korea on the occasion of their country ’ s national foundation day .
he was speaking in dar es salaam over the weekend at the ’ uranium-mining impact on health and environment ’ conference .
advocate flaviana charles , head of corporate and environment unit at the legal and human rights centre ( lhrc ) -one of the organizing members , read the communiqué at the end of the session .
you can use special software to " subscribe " to individual programs so that to listen to one or more wsj podcasts feeds in your button and select " copy shortcut " or " copy link location " to copy wherever it asks for the location of the rss service or podcast you wish to subscribe to .
to see the archive of programs for a particular podcast in itunes , cover story : moving up the risk curve ~ gentleman pig farmer ~ mad max watches ~ schwarzman 's scholars ~ wearable history ~ spa vs. spa ~ the flying mansion ~ my lambo lap ~ hollywood 's banker ~ protect ipo windfalls with a trust ~ more states lower taxes ~ trend spotting : the latest fashions and passions .
ecotourism flourishes in gambia , a small jewel in west africa in this edition of focus euronews ' francois chignac reports on ecotourism in gambia .
" the african continent is known for its wildlife and flora .
but … ( 10 / 8 / 2013 11 : 31 : 24 am ) dominica darlene wallace gets 6 years for pimping " teen girl " who was really a cop colds or flu can spread rapidly among a station 's overwintering population with the arrival of new personnel at the end of winter .
minnesota dioceses : the archdiocese of saint paul and minneapolisthe diocese of saint cloudthe diocese of crookstonthe diocese of new ulmthe diocese of winona say what ? : who do you blame ?
thu oct 10 , 2013 6 : 21 pm edt mcgrath to participate in ’ urinetown the musical ’ at nazareth college thu oct 10 , 2013 4 : 21 pm edt trial delay for man in suny brockport student ’ s death thu oct 10 , 2013 12 : 21 pm edt hadassah plans pre-mother ’ s day bake sale tue apr 24 , 2012 12 : 21 pm edt workers ’ comp costs shifting to localities thu oct 10 , 2013 12 : 21 pm edt a visit home thu oct 10 , 2013 12 : 21 pm edt cuomo on fracking review : " i think we 're doing a good job on it " thu oct 10 , 2013 8 : 21 pm edt kingston ’ s new recycling bins have been distributed to all residences tractor fest set at farmers ’ museum thu oct 10 , 2013 8 : 21 pm edt trial delay for new hartford man in college student ’ s death thu oct 10 , 2013 6 : 21 pm edt ny girl raids own piggy bank to aid family in need thu oct 10 , 2013 4 : 21 pm edt no one shows at ocsd budget meeting wed oct 9 , 2013 02 : 21 am edt man arrested on warrant in connection to sale of crack cocaine in oneida thu oct 10 , 2013 4 : 21 pm edt boehlert : ’ extreme ’ pols caused shutdown thu oct 10 , 2013 08 : 21 am edt bachman : county can avoid layoffs in 2014 thu oct 10 , 2013 08 : 21 am edt hope ?
shutdown / debt talks but no resolution yet fri oct 11 , 2013 04 : 21 am edt lead poisoning in nyc children at record low fri oct 11 , 2013 04 : 21 am edt in discovery mode fri oct 11 , 2013 04 : 21 am edt wptz top play results fri oct 11 , 2013 12 : 21 am edt 35 laid off because of gov ’ t shutdown fri oct 11 , 2013 12 : 21 am edt gop aims to recruit monroe county latinos wed sep 25 , 2013 10 : 21 pm edt schumer calls for improved communication at 43 upstate va sites wed sep 25 , 2013 8 : 21 pm edt zoo society ’ s longtime leader to retire wed sep 25 , 2013 8 : 21 pm edt man allegedly locks self in public restroom to use heroin fri oct 11 , 2013 02 : 21 am edt mvcc to host information session , tours on columbus day fri oct 11 , 2013 06 : 21 am edt motorcycle-suv clash : bikers say off-camera acts led to run-in fri oct 11 , 2013 06 : 21 am edt hope ?
d.c. shutdown / debt talks but no resolution yet fri oct 11 , 2013 02 : 21 am edt greenville fire captain finds raccoon carcass on car fri oct 11 , 2013 12 : 21 am edt where we livehouse of the week | d.c. condo for $ 1.195m articlenso demonstrates the power of wagner anne midgetteone act of & ldquo ; parsifal , ’ staged as a concert , provided an abbreviated but intense jolt of music .
think you ’ re a master of local trivia ?
try answering the washingtology question of the day fromcultural tourism dc .
the 68th anniversary of the end of world war ii is commemorated at the national world war ii memorial .
if you see any of the following changes , bring them to your doctor 's attention : cover the entire breast from top to bottom , side to side — from your collarbone to the top of your abdomen , and from your armpit to your cleavage .
how to apply : applicant will call 501-230-5662 for an interview .
l ’ édification d ’ un etat de droit , démocratique , soucieux de la dignité de la personne humaine , de la sécurité et de la prospérité pour tous. la priorité dans la politique du cndd et sa part du budget passera à 15 & percnt .
elle obéira au principe de la modernisation par l ’ introduction de la mécanisation et des acquis de la recherche scientifique ; au principe de la diversification des cultures vivrières et industrielles et au principe de la rationalisation avec agricoles sera encouragée .
pour cela , le gouvernement cndd va créer cinq centres pilotes de développement intégré dans les cinq régions du pays : nord , sud , processus de développement endogène local .
a cet effet , il va de l ’ agriculture , de l ’ elevage et de la nutrition organisé en un secrétariat d ’ etat à la production agricole et à l ’ alimentation et un secrétariat d ’ etat à l ’ etat sur toute l ’ étendue de la république .
cela permettra de réduire sensiblement les conflits récurrents entre les citoyens et l ’ etat sur informées , formées et sensibilisées sur le travail agricole et sur sa éleveur suivra une formation dans ces domaines pour maîtriser son savoir faire dans ces deux secteurs vitaux du pays , la formation sera sanctionnée par un choix des espèces plus productives .
équilibrage entre les bananes à cuire et les veillera au choix de nouvelles boutures de manioc et combattra la maladie de la du maïs et du blé connaîtra une forte augmentation afin de combattre la faim et de pouvoir vendre aux industries et aux particuliers .
les boulangeries seront les haricots , les arachides , le soja , les petits pois : leur production sera augmentée pour procurer à la population des protéines et pouvoir vendre aux industries .
les patates douces et les pommes de terre : nous allons sélectionner les espèces les plus résistantes et les plus rentables .
les palmiers à huile : mieux étudier les potentiels alimentaire et industriel du palmier à huile , organiser une meilleure distribution de l ’ huile de palme .
le riz : augmenter la production pour en limiter les importations .
les légumes et les fruits : production et procurer le pays les devises dont il a besoin , le cndd va formation et de l ’ information , ces techniciens seront orientés vers les pays production et lutter contre la contrebande , les prix d ’ achat au planteur seront encouragés à prendre des actions dans les coopératives , sociétés de fournis pour apporter un maximum de valeur ajoutée par transformation de développement seront gérées sous forme de coopératives .
la population des le cndd s ’ engage à encourager la production , la transformation , la conservation , la commercialisation et la distribution des produits agricoles pour garantir la sécurité alimentaire de la population .
a cette fin , le cndd envisage d ’ élaborer des programmes régionaux de développement pour exploiter au maximum les opportunités de spécialisation régionale dans la production agricole , de créer des offices de produits vivriers et réhabiliter la fête agricole .
de plus le cndd va encourager , par des mesures fiscales et réglementaires , la création des coopératives d ’ achat d ’ intrants agricoles et de commercialisation des produits agricoles .
pour redonner l ’ honneur à l ’ agriculture il sera instauré une fête nationale de l ’ agriculture. ainsi que la lutte contre l ’ érosion et les sols acides , l ’ utilisation des semences sélectionnées ( à l ’ exclusion des ogm ) , la modernisation des outils rationalisation des circuits des produits agricoles , la régulation des prix des produits agricoles en vue d ’ une juste rémunération et la transformation équipements agricoles .
le cndd assurera donc l ’ accès aux prêts pour la afin de permettre au monde rural d ’ épargner en sécurité .
il veillera à la micro-crédit sur tout le territoire burundais , à la création d ’ un fonds de agences de crédit agricole dans toutes les provinces pour augmenter l ’ accès du monde rural à l ’ épargne ainsi qu ’ à la garantie de la totalité de provinciales de crédit agricole seront des centres d ’ excellence en matière de données , de recherches et d ’ analyses des économies locales afin de mieux en matière d ’ élevage , le cndd s ’ engage à encadrer et à former les éleveurs , promouvoir la recherche d ’ espèces plus productives et résistantes , encourager la création des coopératives d ’ éleveurs et à faciliter leur accès aux crédits , repérer et aménager des zones d ’ élevage pour le petit et le gros bétail , introduire l ’ usage à large échelle des plantes fourragères , promouvoir la pisciculture et la culture des algues marines lacustres sur les lacs , protéger les espèces marines lacustres ainsi que les zones de pêche. élaborer une carte d ’ aménagement du territoire burundais dans son entièreté .
dans ce but , il va créer un ministère de l ’ aménagement du territoire et de l ’ environnement ( ou ministère du développement durable ) , mettre en place une naturelles du pays et élaborer un plan directeur d ’ aménagement du territoire prévoyant l ’ implantation des villages , des centres urbains , des pistes rurales , des routes d ’ intérêt régional , y compris les chemins de fer. organisée dans la capitale et en province .
il sera créé des écoles et instituts spécialisés ainsi qu ’ une garde chargée de faire respecter les codes de l ’ industrie , aux routes et autres infrastructures sociales .
les zones destinées publics et privés ainsi que l ’ espace réservé à la construction des habitations pour les citoyens seront déterminées par la loi .
a bujumbura et dans toutes les villes du burundi , une zone dite & bdquo ; aire administrative « sera déterminée .
cœur de l ’ administration , il y sera érigé les grands bâtiments publics abritant les administrations de l ’ etat .
cela évitera la dispersion des services de l ’ etat. pour l ’ étude et la mise en exécution de ce programme. gestion de l ’ environnement passera par le choix d ’ énergies non polluantes , l ’ entretien des parcs nationaux , des aires et des espèces protégées , une politique de collecte et de traitement des déchets industriels et ménagers , une campagne soutenue de reboisement des espaces arides et des bordures des axes routiers , le tout s ’ appuyant sur une éducation des citoyens à la bonne des rivières et des lacs , notamment le lac tanganyika sera menée. en place un système de ramassage et de traitement des déchets : eaux matière de préservation de l ’ environnement et inciter les industries à de sécurité de l ’ environnement .
il s ’ appliquera à la réhabilitation des banlieues contre l ’ exclusion et la bidonvilisation ; ainsi qu ’ à la conservation et à l ’ utilisation durable de la biodiversité ( faune et flore ) , notamment celle du lac tanganyika et des autres réserves naturelles , par la généralisation des méthodes de protection de l ’ environnement , du maintien et de la restauration de s ’ engage à réhabiliter les réserves naturelles et le reboisement de tous les sommets , plantation des arbres permettant d ’ enrichir et de protéger les sols comme le neem , les bambous , les arbres fruitiers … ainsi il sera instauré moins une journée de travaux communautaires par mois et un service national pour le reboisement de tout le pays en trois ans et encourager toute personne physique ou morale ou collectivité locale qui se sera illustrée dans le projet de protection et de dépollution des rivières et des lacs , notamment le attention particulière sera attirée pour préserver la faune et la flore burundi a été coupé , transformé en bois de chauffage et vendu parfois à l ’ étranger .
cela a eu comme conséquence l ’ irrégularité des pluies et la du pays qui a déjà commencé dans la province de kirundo et qui a déjà fait de allons mettre sur pied un programme de reboisement du pays .
les arbres comme les eucalyptus qui appauvrissent le sol par la consommation de grandes quantités d ’ eau et dont les effets négatifs sont la diminution des nappes phréatiques the arrival of joe cluster , the son of a maryland delegate , was announced on monday .
the montgomery county council member wants to unseat incumbent isiah leggett in june ’ s primary .
votes are there to break shutdown , but not the will * the kochs at work : get a close-up look at one of the key figures behind the government shutdown .
he 's ...
plaintiffs are paul spencer , the teacher who heads the regnat populus ...
he noted that the issue at hand cannot be resolved by strikes but through discussions geared towards amending the law in question . ( b ) a renunciation or diminution by any contracting party of any basis of claim to territorial sovereignty in antarctica which it may have whether as a result of its activities or those of its nationals in antarctica , or otherwise ; ( c ) prejudicing the position of any contracting party as regards its recognition or nonrecognition of any other state 's right of or claim or basis of claim to territorial sovereignty in antarctica .
4 .
aerial observation may be carried out at any time over any or all areas of antarctica by any of the contracting parties having the right to designate observers . ( a ) all expeditions to and within antarctica , on the part of its ships of nationals , and all expeditions to antarctica organized in or proceeding from its territory ; ( b ) all stations in antarctica occupied by its nationals ; and ( d ) facilitation of the exercise of the rights of inspection provided for in article vii of the treaty ; each of the contracting parties undertakes to exert appropriate efforts , consistent with the charter of the united nations , to the end that no one engages in any activity in antarctica contrary to the principles or purposes of the present treaty .
1 .
the present treaty shall be subject to ratification by the signatory states .
it shall be open for accession by any state which is a member of the united nations , or by any other state which may be invited to accede to the treaty with the consent of all the contracting parties whose representatives are entitled to participate in the meetings provided for under article ix of the treaty .
4 .
the depositary government shall inform all signatory and acceding states of the date of each deposit of an instrument of ratification or accession , and the date of entry into force of the treaty and of any modification or amendment thereto .
6 .
the present treaty shall be registered by the depositary government pursuant to article 102 of the charter of the united nations .
youth of the week : heard of orange fleshed sweet potatoes ?
dar to stage uhuru marathon the second edition of uhuru marathon will be staged in dar es salaam on december 8 and has attracted international athletes as confirmed by the event organizing chairman who happens to be the dar es salaam regional commissioner , sadick m full story govt not to see ‘ big results now ’ in forestry sector if ... : the tanzanian forest industries federation ( tfif ) , the country ’ s main stakeholders in the forest has faulted the big crossing mighty kilombero to see new ' mosquito-perfume ' factory : a ferry boat arrives on the kilombero river northern bank .
i am one of the passengers coming from the ulanga ( district ) side dk .
bilal afungua kongamano la 6 la kimataifa la madaktari wananfunzi it was only a matter of time before the worlds of the cw ’ s & ldquo ; arrow & rdquo ; and dc comics ’ green arrow collided . & ldquo ; geoff johns offered to show me a couple of the first episodes [ of ’ arrow ’ ] , but i held off , & rdquo ; lemire tells comic riffs , referring to the dc entertainment executive . & ldquo ; i wanted to try and get all my own ideas and get my own take on the character [ of superhero oliver queen ] before getting too influenced by the show .
so i started my run that way .
and sometime last year , once i felt like i had my voice and what i wanted to say , i watched the show , and diggle kicked so much a - - .
i knew we had to put him in the comic . & ldquo ; hopefully i can capture the essence of the character , but still tell new adventures with him and give him a slightly different backstory .
we ’ re trying to keep what works . ...
there ’ s no point in bringing the character over if we ’ re not trying to use what ’ s so great about him on the show . & rdquo ; the character diggle — who we 've seen on the cw show " arrow " — joins the " green arrow " comic written by jeff lemire . & ldquo ; as an actor , you want to take the parameters that you ’ ve been given for the character , see how you can expand on that and just go with it as far as you can go , & rdquo ; ramsey tells comic riffs .
being in the comic , he says , & ldquo ; wasn ’ t in my line of sight .
when i was told by [ producers ] andrew [ kreisberg ] and marc [ guggenheim ] that this was going to happen , it was a big shock to me .
i had no idea it was coming . & rdquo ; nbc acquires amy and greg poehler comedy welcome to sweden à tel aviv , si vous voulez vous faire soigner , il faudra d 'abord prouver que le 1er juillet 2013 , gabi barbash , directeur du centre médical ichilov à tel aviv , fait circuler des instructions pour interdire l ’ accès aux immigrés ou aux réfugiés africains désirant rendre visite à des patients , sauf en cas d ’ urgence .
officiellement pour des raisons de santé publique , afin de & bdquo ; minimiser les risques pour la santé des patients et du personnel « , rapporte le quotidien les africains venus pour une hospitalisation , des examens ou des soins médicaux sont cependant autorisés à entrer , explique le site .
les parents d ’ enfants malades ou les maris de femmes en travail peuvent également accéder à — patients et visiteurs — doivent subir une radio de la poitrine pour prouver qu ’ ils ne sont pas porteurs de la tuberculose , apprend-on encore .
a l ’ intérieur même de l ’ hôpital , les patients se voient discriminés , ajoute haaretz : les femmes enceintes et les enfants d ’ immigrés sont placés dans un espace séparé du reste de la maternité ou de l ’ aile pédiatrique .
selon un responsable d ’ ichilov , cette directive n ’ a qu ’ un but purement médical , réduire les risques de contagion .
en effet , d ’ après le quotidien maariv , en 2012 , 15 israéliens ont été diagnostiqués de la tuberculose contre 65 africains .
cette maladie nécessite la mise en place d ’ une quarantaine , d ’ un personnel spécifique et de soins individuels très coûteux , explique l ’ article .
la direction de l ’ hôpital ichilov se plaint depuis plusieurs années de devoir prodiguer un grand nombre de traitements médicaux aux migrants et aux réfugiés sans aucune compensation financière , avance haaretz .
pourtant , d ’ après le trésor public israélien , le coût supplémentaire engendré par ces patients est négligeable par rapport à ce que rapporte l ’ activité de l ’ hôpital .
d ’ après maariv , le nombre d ’ immigrés africains clandestins à tel aviv est estimé à 80.000 , soit environ 15 & percnt de la population .
beaucoup d ’ entre eux ont besoin de soins intensifs , notamment parce que le taux de naissances prématurées est deux fois plus élevé chez les africains que pour le reste de la population , en plus de la tuberculose , ils sont aussi particulièrement touchés par d ’ autres maladies : la population africaine représente un tiers des nouveaux porteurs du sida en israël et la moitié des diagnostics de malaria , indique la pauvreté dans laquelle vivent ces travailleurs clandestins ne fait qu ’ empirer leurs problèmes de santé , contractés dans leur pays d ’ origine et aggravés durant le voyage jusqu ’ en israël , déplore gabi barbash , qui estime à environ 50 millions de nis ( plus de 10 millions d ’ euros ) par an les frais la mesure discriminante répond-elle donc à une problématique économique ou de santé publique ?
autre perspective , plus sombre , elle ne serait qu ’ un témoignage the two snowmobiles quickly turn to small specks on the white snowfield .
mountaineer brian mccullough is in the lead , a thick rope secures his machine to one driven by scientist stephen hasiotis .
the two men are also harnessed and roped together .
they ’ re making the first snowmobile traverse on this route to a feature called wahl glacier .
a trail from a large field camp in the central transantarctic mountains had led them more than halfway , threading through a crevasse field , and up and down rises in the valley .
now they ’ re in virgin territory , and mccullough expertly steers to a large rock outcrop the team has dubbed " the castle ” near wahl glacier .
hasiotis , a paleontologist from the university of kansas , hopes to add to an already impressive trove of finds based on previous reports of fossils in the area .
hasiotis isn ’ t your typical antarctic fossil hunter .
circumstance — not design — has conspired to reduce the workload of alfred morris , but the redskins rb insists he ’ s not frustrated .
outsider : blitzes vs. cowboysforbath prepares to return sundayrgiii ‘ rejuvenated ’ | bracing for romo it has been a pretty big week for the redskins lineman . & # 8221 ; milbank on the name debateobama : ‘ i ’ d think about changing ’ name steelers wr cotchery at home in pittsburgh as return to old stomping grounds looms the daughters of redskins owner dan snyder appear in national ads for the league ’ s new tween and juniors line .
washington trounces tampa bay 30-12 in its last preseason game .
are the redskins nfc east favorites ? — post sports live column | when the redskins owner addresses the fan base in a letter , what is the real message ?
thanks to changing dynamics and better technology , why would you go ever go to the stadium to watch an nfl game again ?
august 24 , 2013 st thomas , usvi -- governor john de jongh said on friday he shares the concerns of the aviation industry on st croix , which has warned the us virgin islands ’ elected leaders that continued air traffic to the island can be jeopardized by the planned shutdown of the hovensa facility .
" this in a huge way affects wildlife dispersal and a huge concern to the future of the area for wildlife conservation , " kws said .
thereare many resources available on the internet .
beloware a few sites recommended by the office of worship , diocese of duluth .
leann rimes slammed for bragging her stepson was singing & # 8216 ; spitfire & # 8217 ; & # 8212 ; song rumored to be about her husband & # 8217 ; s ex brandi glanville ‘ provocative ’ miley cyrus admits this is the ‘ craziest time in my whole life , ’ to ellen degeneres miley cryus is sticking her tongue out at the whole world , telling ellen degeneres that this is the “ craziest time in my whole life , ” since her raunchy twerking performance on & hellip ; readon teresa giudice has questioned whether her brother joe gorga and her sister-in-law melissa gorga joined the cast of the real housewives of new jersey with one goal in mind & # 8212 ; & hellip ; readon baby north west has become quite the beverly hills baby , with fancy dinners out and now a trip to the doctor ’ s office and radaronline.com has the photos of her mommy & hellip ; readon leann rimes ’ ex-hubby claims she blindsided him with cheating , declares ‘ i never saw it coming ! ’
brandi glanville has said that she figured out her husband eddie cibrian was cheating on her with leann rimes the first time she saw them together but the country singer ’ s & hellip ; readon teen mom star jenelle evans has called for her estranged husband courtland rogers to go to rehab after he attempted to release shocking footage of himself injecting heroin .
cory monteith ’ s death : coroner rules cause was ‘ heroin and alcohol toxicity ’ khloe kardashian is crying out for attention with her racy new outfit and radaronline.com has the revealing photos where she ’ s flashing her bra in a see-through shirt and wearing a & hellip ; readon marlo hampton slams close pal nene leakes !
the reason ‘ i ’ m not a housewife is because i ’ m not married yet ’ owen wilson ’ s married baby mama-to-be broke the news to him that he was going to be a father again in may but she kept her scandalous pregnancy a secret & hellip ; readon celebrity twitter pics of the week !
the good , the bad & the outrageous michaele salahi is gearing up for her wedding to journey rocker neal schon and only radaronline.com has the exclusive low-down on their upcoming nuptials .
kris jenner & khloe kardashian : one ring is on , one ring is off as both marriages crumble after being burglarized by the sensational & # 8216 ; bling ring & # 8217 ; teens in 2009 , orlando bloom rented out his hollywood hills home for a whopping $ 16,500 per month , but now the actor is & hellip ; readon at a time when kris jenner could use a little love and support , her sister , karen houghton spoke out earlier this week to bash the keeping up with the & hellip ; readon dump lamar !
khloe kardashian leaning on rapper the game during marriage crisis ; he has ‘ romantic feelings ’ for her lamar who ?
khloe kardashian parties with drug-using rapper the game as she drops odom from her surname victoria ’ s secret model alessandra ambrosio ’ s baby daddy put their little son noah in an incredibly dangerous position by taking him out of his car seat and holding him in & hellip ; readon drawing closer ?
authorities to release cgi photo of suspected madeleine mccann kidnapper & # 039 ; nymphomaniac & # 039 ; racy posters : did the actors really have sex on screen ?
criticizing obama : does it really get you blacklisted in hollywood ? & # 039 ; aliens & # 039 ; as a sitcom : in space no one can hear you scream , but they can hear the laugh track leann rimes ’ ex-husband says he was blindsided by her affair with eddie cibrian © 2013 radar online , llc | privacy policy | terms of use gov. nixon issues statement on missouri ’ s ranking as one of the most business-friendly tax climates in the nation the utility company ’ s communication manager badra masoud said yesterday that the blackout which occurred on monday in the city was due to a failure of a transformer at ubungo substation and pin insulator ’ s flush at one of steel poles of northern kinondoni region circuit .
scientists do not all agree on the precise explanation for the apparently catastrophic erosion by water , but the effects are nonetheless startling .
as in most regions of perennially frozen ground , permafrost patterns often form in the loose sand and gravel of the dry valleys .
chunks of ice of all sizes which break off continental ice sheets and ice shelves in a process known as " calving " .
individual icebergs range from a few meters to tens of miles in diameter .
how can there be a priest shortage when our diocese has more than twice as many seminarians as it had 10 years ago ?
any or all of these models could appear in the recommendations submitted by deanery planning groups .
who serves on the diocesan planning committee and how were they selected ?
liz hoefferle — a former director of religious education and member of the bishop ’ s committee on catechesis for the diocese of duluth deacon rodger brannan — serves as a deacon at the cathedral of our lady of the rosary ; experience as an accounting professor and with statistics expansion of the volume of the world 's oceans as they warm up the seas south of the antarctic convergence contain the coldest and densest water in the world .
the town in western loudoun county clings to its rural history .
an engineer at the company 's sydney office submitted a joke request for a monorail and got it -- well , a couple monorail cars , anyway. well , a couple monorail cars , anyway ....... they 're asked to go pick out a couple monorail cars from the junkyard to use as meeting rooms in the company 's newest building .
sometimes people are so obsessed with the " cost " of something ... that they can 't see the " value " of something . there is a lot of bang for the buck in this action by management . good on ya google sydney .
february 21 , 2013 philipsburg , st maarten -- the island of st martin and st maarten now has a free app for iphone and android in four languages , providing comprehensive and current information about what ’ s happening and is interesting for visitors and locals .
suspect arrested in deaths of us couple in st maarten joint central bank quarrel escalates between curacao and st maarten man hurt in motorcycle , car crash thu oct 10 , 2013 6 : 13 pm edt students using steamroller to create art thu oct 10 , 2013 6 : 13 pm edt pig amuses , annoys des moines neighborhood thu oct 10 , 2013 6 : 13 pm edt toronto staronline flu tracking not a substitute for shutdown cdcmashable1 hour agowritten bymeg wagneras cooler weather settles in and the season for sniffles and sore throats looms , the centers for disease control and prevention won 't be tracking the pattern of this year 's flu.shutdown leaves cdc handcuffed as flu season gets underwaynature world newsolder people may benefit from high dosage flu vaccinefox newssee all 380 sourcesrelated : influenza vaccine a seemingly improbable alliance between the ffs and fln parties - it was announced in a letter to ffs leader hocine ait ahmed by the fln ’ s boss , amar saadani on sept . ( ... )
named chief of cma cgm algerie in august , marc messana , a graduate of france ’ s st cyr military academy , inherited a load of trouble . ( ... )
changes are continuing at the top of algeria ’ s departement du renseignement et de la securite ( drs ) .
the surprise appointment of general ali bendaoud as boss of the direction de la ( ... )
hamed koffi zarour has emerged as one of the most active lobbyists in touting algerian ( ... )
a specialist in algeria ’ s oil industry , sadek boussena is presently being courted ( ... )
rejoicewith us as we continue our celebrations in honor of the canonization of st. kateri tekakwitha on october 21 , 2012 .
the diocese of duluth sent five representativesto rome for this festive occasion .
they were joined by 800 , 000 other pilgrims in rome for the canonization ofour seven new saints .
to bishop paul sirba , the bureau of catholic indian missions office , and the many contributions frommembers of the diocese of duluthand elsewhere we thank youfor this wonderful gift and assure you that you were present in our prayers as we made our pilgrimagein italy .
you were there as we received the special blessings fromthe holy father and at eachmass .
may st. kateri tekakwitha continue to walk with us as we strive to imitate her in reaching out to the young , our elders , and the sick and hold close to our hearts her devotions to jesus on the cross and to his mother .
reservations within the diocese of duluth : bois forte reservationfond du lac reservationgrand portage reservationleech lake reservationmille lacs reservation tackle avoidable blindness .
the challenge is to cross the length of the record being attempted by sir ranulph fiennes is a dangerous endeavour , but an the plan is to begin the expedition on the equinox of march 21st 2013 , temperatures .
dr mike stroud has been expeditions with sir ranulph before , and had this to say about the attempt .
" the challenge is whether it is possible to operate and be out there in the coldest place on earth at the coldest time of the year . ”
even for the boat journey to the pacific coast of antarctica sir on the icy continent this will not be enough .
new equipment is being invented fiennes was the first man to cross the entire continent of antarctica on foot , a record he set back in 1993 when he was 49 .
now sir ranulph is 68 , but his age old .
if you still are lucky enough to be able to walk around not stooped , no attention to exploring .
his list of records is far reaching and impressive , sleds fell through thin ice , and he had to pull them out using his hands .
all his fingers on his left hand were severely damaged by frostbite , and he had to abandon the attempt .
amputation of his fingertips was inevitable , but his back as possible .
sir ranulph couldn ’ t wait , and instead used a fretsaw to why he wanted to make this new record attempt , sir ranulph answered , " we do it ahead for sir ranulph and his team is a going to be an ultimate test of this was not the reason for the decision being made to attempt the winter rivalry is a good reason to head to the coldest place on earth at the coldest time of year is up for debate , but the challenge has now been set , and only time will tell if sir ranulph can accomplish the extraordinary feat he has set when one woman learnt she was entitled to a share of her father ’ s property , she fought for it , changing her life forever mwenyekiti wa chadema freeman mbowe ahutubia mkutano mkuu wa chama cha conservative denmark the two snowmobiles quickly turn to small specks on the white snowfield .
mountaineer brian mccullough is in the lead , a thick rope secures his machine to one driven by scientist stephen hasiotis .
the two men are also harnessed and roped together .
they ’ re making the first snowmobile traverse on this route to a feature called wahl glacier .
a trail from a large field camp in the central transantarctic mountains had led them more than halfway , threading through a crevasse field , and up and down rises in the valley .
now they ’ re in virgin territory , and mccullough expertly steers to a large rock outcrop the team has dubbed " the castle ” near wahl glacier .
hasiotis , a paleontologist from the university of kansas , hopes to add to an already impressive trove of finds based on previous reports of fossils in the area .
first , there ’ s the headgear — a worn , leather cowboy hat that stays as firmly on his pony-tailed head as indiana jones ’ fedora .
there ’ s also a bit of cowboy swagger in the first-generation greek-american , as well as an infectious enthusiasm for his work .
he ’ s quite eager to jump down onto his belly , arms and legs swinging , to illustrate how a burrowing critter that lived in a warmer antarctica long ago might have scurried and clawed through its underground home .
peter flaig is the team ’ s expert on those sediments .
his job is to put the trace fossils into context .
for example , if hasiotis spies what be believes are the swimming trails of a fish — where it might have settled on the sediment , leaving an imprint — flaig must determine if the sediment deposits indeed belong to a lake .
on " the castle ” outcrop , hasiotis is shouting for flaig , and a few expletives pepper his exclamations as he scrambles underneath an overhang on the castle-like outcrop near wahl glacier , which looks nearly sheer from this vantage point , a few bare rocks jutting out from the ice .
the blackened rock he displayed previously back at camp can only be one thing — fossilized charred wood .
the most well-accepted story of the period suggests that the climate shifted from wet and warm to dry and warmer at the boundary .
but those interpretations are inherently biased , based on the evidence at hand .
sedimentologists like flaig assume the triassic dried out based on the sand that filled the basin .
but so much of the evidence is covered by ice in today ’ s antarctica .
" trace fossils are like fingerprints .
they don ’ t tell you genus or species , but it can tell you horseshoe crab , ” he says .
" we ’ ve hit the jackpot on this trip between the tracks of animals we don ’ t even know about , the horseshoe crabs , and the small burrowing therapsids or reptiles . ”
dkt .
bilal azindua miradi ya ukarabati wa vituo vya kupoza umeme kilimanjaro abc news correspondent ann compton described obama as the “ least transparent of the seven presidents i ’ ve covered in terms of how he does his daily business . ”
obama on big governmentconsolidate a " whole bunch " of federal agencies dealing with business issues into one new department led by a secretary of business .
( text by the < a href = " http : / / www.huffingtonpost.com / huff-wires / 20121104 / us-presidential-campaign-promises / " > associated press < / a > ; jewel samad / afp / gettyimages ) best buy stock soars , but why ?
thu oct 10 , 2013 3 : 16 pm edt minnesotans malleable on copper mining , polls show thu oct 10 , 2013 3 : 16 pm edt turning point : tatortot saves the day thu oct 10 , 2013 5 : 16 pm edt state patrol investigating call to whistleblower saying , ’ you ’ re marked ’ thu oct 10 , 2013 11 : 16 pm edt electricalheating & coolingremodelingsafety & securityhousehold itemsmovingplumbingpoolsreal estatereal estate lawroofingwater treatmentpest controlmortgage guideinterior designfurniture are you better off buying your home , or should you continue to rent ?
use this calculator to see how much interest you can save by refinancing your mortgage .
the clouds and periodic rain / drizzle are in it to win it .
for a few more days still .
the patuxent community rallied around rafiq douglas and his brother in a time of need .
now the panthers ’ star running back is excelling for his community .
what you can buy for $ 1 million in d.c. area for $ 1 million , you can buy a variety of housing types in the washington region .
osteria elisir hires former chef geoff ’ s toque to run the kitchen guinea ’ s government has retained the services of sheila khama , who heads the extractive ( ... )
lb robinson to miss virginia gameedsall to diggs : don ’ t be frustrated patuxent community rallied around rafiq douglas and his brother in a time of need .
now the panthers ’ star rb excels for his community .
post tv | da ’ shawn hand and woodbridge vikings cope with tragedy off the field by coming together for a win on it .
column | nationals ’ main task in evaluating cal ripken jr. is finding out how much he wants to be their manager.wise : oates opines on ripken | would ripken go to d.c. ? baker interested in nats job | revisiting best , worst cases column | maryland football has improved , and saturday ’ s game at florida state will show how much .
fsu quarterback jameis winston is living up to the hypemd .
oc on avoiding turnovers | takeaway | washington ’ s defense goes from maligned to relentless in one afternoon vs. oakland.takeaway : a win before the byelive online q & a : ask boswellredskins get out of the hole column | as hofer and first-time coach , adam oates knows what cal ripken would be getting into , sort of .
boswell : does he want it ? | bowden on ripkendusty baker is interested in managing the nats china overtakes the us to become the biggest importer of oil in the world , us government data shows . ( 10 / 10 / 2013 8 : 18 : 50 am ) michael dirda is a pulitzer prize-winning columnist for the washington post book world and the author of the memoir “ an open book ” and of four collections of essays philip kennicott is the art and architecture critic of the washington post .
hank stuever is the post ’ s tv critic and the author of two books .
vicky hallett has been one of the misfits since the column began in 2007 a syllabus for navigating the college social scene .
capital weather gang » more than a city .
not quite a state .
enough for a blog.michael rosenwald » tom jackman is a native of northern virginia who writes the state of nova blog .
the column “ john kelly ’ s washington ” is a daily look at washington ’ s less-famous side .
award-winning columnist al kamen created “ in the loop ” in 1993 .
editor of the post ’ s editorial page , hiatt also writes a biweekly column and contributes to the postpartisan blog .
katrina vanden heuvel writes a weekly column for the post .
fareed zakaria writes a foreign affairs column for the post .
thomas boswell is a longtime sports columnist for the post.norman chad | couch slouch » jk wants laboratories in all schools by end of next year na amri lugungulo the tourney winds up on sunday and as usual amateur winner will be garlanded by the green jacket .
golfers are expected to come all the way from missenyi club of kagera , morogoro and arusha gymkhana clubs , moshi , lugalo and zanzibar .
eccb takeover of anguilla banks could end up in court april 11 , 2013 the valley , anguilla -- anguilla is one of the friendliest places in the caribbean and exploring its nooks and crannies can be great fun on your own .
but it ’ s even more rewarding when you ’ re sharing your discoveries and enjoying the island ’ s dining spots .
cruz 's campaign to defund the affordable care act helped drive the government shutdown , and has led even members of his own party to criticize his actions .
" and if it were up to you , those single moms would be staying up at night with no hope and no help for them or for their children , " jones said , " you have yet to put on the table anything that you would do about that . "
" the huffington post " is a registered trademark of thehuffingtonpost.com , inc .
all rights reserved.right turn morning bitsmorning bitsmorning bitsmorning bitsmorning bitsmorning bitsview all tag posts from the pope ’ s interview to the virginia gubernatorial race , atheists are at the center of our debates .
president rouhani must show the world that his nation can respect the religious liberty of its own people if we are to trust that his nation is changing .
the pope ’ s extraordinary initiatives give us hope in our time of conflict and show us compassion in an age of indifference .
is the age-old sin of pride behind today ’ s grandstanding from congress ?
we are at a moment in history where it is clear that new religions are going to be created in a big way .
kay warren on god : ’ there are times that i feel it ’ s all a big cosmic joke ’ author colm toibin talks about his book ‘ the testament of mary ’ rabbi shaul praver of the adath israel congregation in newtown , conn . , discusses comforting the mom of sandy hook shooting victim noah posner on saturday .
eckhart tolle on losing trust in god , being in the now rosy lee is 37 , had a baby nine months ago , and a sinus infection three weeks ago that nearly knocked her out of the marathon ....
the big storywhite houselatest news and coverage involving the obama white house un calls iraq death penalty ’ obscene and inhuman ’ fri oct 11 , 2013 07 : 20 am edt syrian lawmaker lauds nobel prize for inspectors fri oct 11 , 2013 07 : 20 am edt french states bluster belies alcatels job-cutting reality fri oct 11 , 2013 06 : 40 am edt dozens of students hurt when bus hit by truck overturns fri oct 11 , 2013 05 : 00 am edt ’ glee ’ says goodbye to cory monteith fri oct 11 , 2013 01 : 30 am edt taliban : we ’ d target malala again wed oct 9 , 2013 08 : 50 am edt un says 42 people executed in iraq in 2 days was an ’ obscene and inhuman ’ use of death penalty fri oct 11 , 2013 07 : 20 am edt gop plan to extend debt limit raises hope of end to impasse thu oct 10 , 2013 10 : 10 pm edt bay area averts a transit system strike , for now fri oct 11 , 2013 04 : 40 am edt african union condemns ’ unfair ’ icc fri oct 11 , 2013 07 : 00 am edt coroner denies ohio captor sex death fri oct 11 , 2013 06 : 10 am edt in the loop : shutdown cancels glitzy london bash for u.s. envoy matt barzun fri oct 11 , 2013 06 : 10 am edt govbeat : in oregon , dr. no gets to yes fri oct 11 , 2013 06 : 10 am edt costs of investments in china on the rise fri oct 11 , 2013 12 : 20 am edt mtoto wa kike asibaguliwe kielimu wakati leo dunia ikiadhimisha siku ya mtoto wa kike , bado kuna baadhi ya jamii za tanzania na afrika kwa ujumla , hazijampa mtoto wa kike fursa zote muhimu ikiwamo elimu habari kamili elimu zaidi kuhusu risiti za mashine itolewe kwa umma kuepusha vurugu ajali zaua 14 wiki ya usalama ikianza .
kwa mwanzo huu usalama wa kweli barabarani utafikiwa ?
maisha ndivyo yalivyo : mke anapomgeuza mume gari la kuzoa majitaka !
waziri mkuu , mizengo pinda , akizungumza na waandishi wa habari ( hawapo pichani ) , ofisini kwake jijini dar es salaam jana . pinda ampiga stop magufuli waziri mkuu , mizengo pinda , ametengua maamuzi yaliyofanywa na waziri wa ujenzi dk .
john magufuli ya kuongeza tozo ya asilimia tano kwa wasafirishaji wa malori na mabasi kwa uzito unaozidi habari kamili abiria atishia kuishtaki fastjet kampuni ya ndege ya fastjet imedaiwa kukiuka agizo la mamlaka ya usafiri wa anga ( tcaa ) ya kutakiwa kukutana na mfanyabiashara majaliwa mbasa kumaliza mgogoro uliopo kufuatia kampuni hiyo kushindwa kumsafirisha kutoka dar es salaam kwenda johannesburg , afrika kusini habari kamili hatma ya henry joseph , redondo simba leo hatma ya wachezaji henry joseph na ramadhani chombo ' redondo ' ambao wametemwa katika kambi ya simba inayojiandaa kwa mechi yao ya ligi kuu ya bara dhidi ya prisons itajulikana leo wakati kocha wa timu hiyo abdallah kibadeni atakapozungumza na wanahabari jijini dar es salaam habari kamili jaji mutungi apewe ushirikiano : msajili wa vyama vya siasa , jaji francis mutungi amefanya mambo mawili yanayodhihirisha kuwa rais kikwete hakukosea kumteua tuutibu muungano vinginevyo utakuwa dola ya warusi : ilikuwa novemba 7 mwaka 1989 pale serikali ya ujerumani ya mashariki kwa wakati huo majira ya saa 1 : 00 usiku ilipotangaza mapambano haya hayataleta katiba bora : alhamisi wiki iliyopita jaji joseph warioba , mwenyekiti wa tume ya mabadiliko ya katiba alikutana na waandishi wa habari , ajira kwa walemavu , dhamira njema inayotekelezwa kwa porojo : ingawa tanzania inasisitiza haki kwa walemavu , dhamira hiyo inatekelezwa kwa nadharia tu .
baada ya kutelekezwa , sekta ya maji imezaa mgao wa umeme : umeme ni nyenzo kubwa ya kuchochea maendeleo ya jamii , ndiyo maana mahitaji ya nishati hiyo yanaongezeka kila mwaka .
tusiyaenzi ya mwalimu nyerere kinafiki : bado siku saba tu ili taifa liadhimishe miaka 14 tangu baba wa taifa mwalimu nyerere alipofariki , nakumbuka matukio ya wakati yanayoibuka katika sakata la bandari : kwa muda mrefu kumekuwa na usiri unaoficha mambo yanayoendelea mamlaka ya bandari tanzania ( tpa ) .
jitihada hizo zinazolenga wasichana waelimishwe kukwepa mimba za utotoni : wanafunzi mabinti wanapopata mimba hulazimika kukatiza masomo na ndoto zao za kufanikiwa kupitia elimu huzimika .
mimba pata kibonzo chako kila siku toka kwa kabwela , the flexibles na dogo luninga na redio severesevere weather alerts dayssevere weather guideweather alertsweatherbuglive camsinteractive radarweather alertsschool closingsreceive closing alertstell us about closingshour by hourweather mapsgreen housetips archivegood earth giveawayblogforecast tanzania wants to renegotiate some sections of the deal it inked with its ugandan neighbour in september 2011 for the construction of a hydro-electric dam . ( ... )
talks between orca exploration and the tanzanian government to double the amount of gas produced on songo songo are dragging on . ( ... )
the government in dar es salaam is investigating the affairs of around 200 tanzanians suspected of dissimulating some $ 196 million in swiss banks . ( ... )
the chama cha mapinduzi ( ccm , ruling party ) mp for the nzega constituency in the ( ... )
the saints and crs rice bowl-week by weekhow to send a letter to the editor - ask the post - the washington post where can i find letters to the editor on washingtonpost.com ?
wine and dine , florida style , at rosa fiorelli winery in east manatee fri oct 11 , 2013 02 : 10 am edt fennelly : no surprise , but captaincy fits st. louis to a t fri oct 11 , 2013 02 : 10 am edt crist mum on run for young ’ s seat ; others say no thanks thu oct 10 , 2013 6 : 10 pm edt mrsa infection returns to bucs guard carl nicks thu oct 10 , 2013 6 : 10 pm edt dog mistakenly euthanized on day of adoption thu oct 10 , 2013 4 : 10 pm edt get your crane fix here thu oct 10 , 2013 4 : 10 pm edt classic casserole to the rescue wed aug 7 , 2013 2 : 10 pm edt new tampa library showcases artist ’ s acrylics wed oct 9 , 2013 4 : 10 pm edt so much for responsibility .
the big opportunity slipped away , and fiscal planning has since devolved into a series of standoffs verging on defaults and shutdowns .
the latest one has washington paralyzed right now .
such as curbing the government 's addiction to debt and deficits .
airlifted motorcyclist in satisfactory condition fri oct 11 , 2013 03 : 19 am edt common core meeting to be held in epping fri oct 11 , 2013 03 : 19 am edt teacher ’ s association to hold two food drives fri oct 11 , 2013 03 : 19 am edt selectmen ok $ 10,000 to improve ice rink , pond fri oct 11 , 2013 03 : 19 am edt haunted tours offered in newmarket fri oct 11 , 2013 03 : 19 am edt whs girls place eight in top 10 , run away with win fri oct 11 , 2013 03 : 19 am edt north hampton briefs fri oct 11 , 2013 03 : 19 am edt around the town fri oct 11 , 2013 03 : 19 am edt hampton selectmen vote to distribute lgc funds fri oct 11 , 2013 03 : 19 am edt roger brown ’ s first and 10 the stars come out for concord-pinkerton fri oct 11 , 2013 03 : 19 am edt small quake rattles central nh fri oct 11 , 2013 03 : 19 am edt vin sylvia of sox and lack of sleep fri oct 11 , 2013 01 : 19 am edt nashua river cleanup unearths years of debris fri oct 11 , 2013 01 : 19 am edt giguere stops 39 shots in avs ’ shutout of bruins fri oct 11 , 2013 03 : 19 am edt unh shakes things up in effort to end losing ways fri oct 11 , 2013 03 : 19 am edt three dead in pflugerville crash thu oct 10 , 2013 10 : 27 pm edt lawmakers demand change in va painkiller prescriptions thu oct 10 , 2013 10 : 27 pm edt man accused of posting stolen laptop on craigslist thu oct 10 , 2013 8 : 27 pm edt sentencing friday for man found guilty of murder in toddlers death thu oct 10 , 2013 8 : 27 pm edt rose to run for chief justice thu oct 10 , 2013 8 : 27 pm edt georgetown to consider citywide spraying for mosquitos tue sep 25 , 2012 4 : 27 pm edt premier : u.s. may not act sat sep 15 , 2012 12 : 27 am edt new brushy creek pedestrian bridge now open mon sep 10 , 2012 6 : 27 pm edt torchy ’ s fires back in taco cannon feud thu oct 10 , 2013 4 : 27 pm edt ut ticket demand plummets for red river rivalry game thu oct 10 , 2013 4 : 27 pm edt red river cultural district on the horizon thu oct 10 , 2013 2 : 27 pm edt offices fit for royalty on the market in westlake - slideshow thu oct 10 , 2013 12 : 27 pm edt shutdown a hangover for breweries thu oct 10 , 2013 10 : 27 pm edt big delays can mean big business and big bucks thu oct 10 , 2013 10 : 27 pm edt updated : 3 killed in sh 130 rollover thu oct 10 , 2013 10 : 27 pm edt cdc affected in midst of flu season fri oct 11 , 2013 12 : 27 am edt 3 killed in rollover crash on sh 130 thu oct 10 , 2013 10 : 27 pm edt keeton in austin women ’ s hall of fame thu oct 10 , 2013 6 : 27 pm edt in this bethesda house , giuliana rancic dreamed of someday being on tv depuis le deuxième assassinat politique en moins de 6 mois , les laïcs manifestent contre ennahda et demande la dissolution de l 'assemblée constituante .
un islamiste présumé a été tué , cinq autres arrêtées au cours d 'une opération de police dimanche matin dans une maison dans la banlieue de tunis .
les opérations de démantèlement de groupes terroristes se multiplient depuis le second assassinat politique dans le pays et la mort de soldats à la frontière les habitants de ouardia , banlieue au sud de la capitale ont été réveillés par des tirs à 5h30 par une opération commando visant une maison qui abritait cinq suspects ont été arrêtés , un homme a été tué et un autre blessé au cours moins d 'une semaine après une ambuscade au mont chaambi où 8 soldats tunisiens ont été retrouvés fusillés et égorgés , les autorités tunisiennes ont depuis promis une plus grande fermeté dans la lutte anti-terroriste .
a chaambi , frontière tuniso-algérienne , l 'armée a eu recours à des dix jihadistes auraient été tués , chiffres non encore confirmés par le on a appris dans la soirée dimanche qu 'un soldat tunisien a été tué , sept autres blessés par l 'explosion d 'une mine près de la frontière algérienne , où ces derniers jours , le pays a été secoué par plusieurs alertes terroristes : - un colis suspect et une menace de mort ont été retrouvés devant la maison samedi à l 'appel d 'ennahda , majoritaire au sein de la coaltion gouvernementa le , plusieurs dizaines de milliers de personnes ont manifesté à tunis . - un homme a tiré sur une patrouille de police dans l 'est du pays .
dans les centres commerciaux , lieux publics et ambassades , la vigilance est accrue et l 'insécurité dans le pays ne cesse d 'accroitre les passions chez les si l 'identité des hommes tués au mont chaambi n 'a pas encore été révélée , le premier ministre , ali laarayedh a révélé placer la lutte anti-terroriste au-dessus " rendez les armes , rendez vous à la police et la société et la justice le prendra en considération " , a déclaré le premier ministre ali larayedh , cité par ce crime attribué à la mouvance jihadiste , et dont l 'exécutant et le commanditaire n 'ont pas été arrêtés , avait entraîné la chute du premier depuis l 'assassinat de l 'opposant politique mohamed brahmi le 25 juillet dernier , la tunisie est de nouveau ébranlée sur le plan sécuritaire , politique cela fait maintenant 10 jours que des manifestations géantes se tiennent quotidiennement devant le parlement pour demander la dissolution du gouvernement .
dimanche soir une manifestation de femmes étaient prévues à tunis .
elles devaient s 'habiller en blanc et rouge en signe de condamnation du tv highlights : ‘ arrow ’ back for season 2 plus , mtv ’ s ‘ big tips texas ’ and directv ’ s ‘ full circle ’ debut .
tue oct 08 22 : 00 : 13 utc 2013 miley week : catch up on the madness leading up to ‘ bangerz ’ miley ’ s been in the news all the time , thanks to an “ snl ” hosting gig and twitter feud with sinead o ’ connor .
tue oct 08 14 : 00 : 18 utc 2013 tv highlights : ‘ cassadee pope : frame by frame ’ on cmt plus , “ say yes to the cure : lori ’ s fight updated . ”
thu oct 03 21 : 51 : 26 utc 2013 tv highlights : ‘ nashville , ’ ‘ modern family , ’ ‘ revolution ’ return plus , “ criminal minds ” and “ csi ” are back on cbs .
wed sep 25 01 : 35 : 00 utc 2013 emmys ratings rise , while ‘ breaking bad ’ breaks records of its own the emmys appeared to have a ratings rise .
mon sep 23 21 : 24 : 00 utc 2013 tv highlights for sept .
23 : ‘ how i met your mother ’ returns for the final season plus , the premieres of ‘ 2 broke girls ’ and ‘ castle . ’
mon sep 23 04 : 01 : 00 utc 2013 house of the week | georgetown row house for $ 4.2m call your lender to find out what the ramifications of the government ’ s actions will be for you .
why a high-interest loan may be advantageous to a house flipper claims for jobless benefits jump thu oct 10 , 2013 11 : 26 am edt judge shuts down memphis convenience store and gas station as a public nuisance thu oct 10 , 2013 7 : 26 pm edt pryor campaign calls on cotton to pull down tv ad thu oct 10 , 2013 1 : 07 pm edt 5 in race for flaggs ’ seat in legislature fri oct 11 , 2013 04 : 17 am edt miss .
appeals court reverses northbay rental ban thu oct 10 , 2013 6 : 17 pm edt problems continue for obamacare enrollment fri oct 4 , 2013 9 : 26 pm edt memphis man convicted of raping woman in wheelchair fri oct 4 , 2013 7 : 26 pm edt haslam pledges to increase tenn .
teacher salaries thu oct 3 , 2013 11 : 26 pm edt mom charged with theft in connection to fundraiser wed oct 2 , 2013 3 : 26 pm edt man fights back for stolen lawn mower thu oct 10 , 2013 9 : 26 pm edt batesville murder suspect on the run after second murder thu oct 10 , 2013 7 : 26 pm edt sixty-year-old man accused of raping 14-year-old girl thu oct 10 , 2013 7 : 26 pm edt a man at kirando village in rukwa region waits for his wife who had gone to attend clinic .
( photo : correspondent george nyembela ) the small town of kirando is 56 kilometres from the district headquarter of namanyere in nkasi district .
the town is also 150 kilometres from the regional headquarter of sumbawanga .
he added according to the tradition of the fipa tribe , it was regarded as a sin for men to take part in matters related to maternal health of their wives .
the enrolled nurse said men are accompanying their wives to the clinic voluntarily .
tmep has done a great job in its awareness activities in most of the areas around kirando and its suburbs . & ldquo ; community members have received srhr knowledge and are applying it in family planning , hiv and sti prevention and the use of condoms as well , & rdquo ; the in – charge of kirando health centre , dr kisimba added .
the rukwa vmmc coordinator , asubisye andobwisye said the region has been implementing the project as part of minimum packages of male circumcision for hiv prevention services .
one single set for male circumcision amounts to 100,000 / - , but the costs are taken care of by the government and donors .
the service is given free of charge in the rukwa and other regions where male circumcision was regarded as a taboo .
moodys says abq has turned the corner , but warns on federal cuts thu oct 10 , 2013 5 : 20 pm edt pearce invites yellen to visit nm thu oct 10 , 2013 11 : 20 am edt claims for jobless benefits jump thu oct 10 , 2013 11 : 20 am edt navajo version of ’ a new hope ’ comes to the kimo thu oct 10 , 2013 9 : 20 pm edt bad gas from gallup refinery is bad news thu oct 10 , 2013 9 : 20 pm edt gop meeting with obama called ’ very useful ’ thu oct 10 , 2013 7 : 20 pm edt pnm works to restore power on windy day thu oct 10 , 2013 7 : 20 pm edt bcso : man waved gun at gas co. worker thu oct 10 , 2013 7 : 20 pm edt attorney general ’ s office may need to respond to ’ bad gas ’ complaints fri oct 11 , 2013 01 : 20 am edt glowdeo canceled , fireworks still on for tonight thu oct 10 , 2013 9 : 20 pm edt miss. executes former butcher who dismembered man thu jun 21 , 2012 12 : 17 am edt ap news alert thu jun 21 , 2012 12 : 17 am edt bond now $ 1m for female suspect in stripper case thu jun 21 , 2012 12 : 17 am edt barbecuers to compete in annual octoberfest event wed oct 9 , 2013 6 : 17 pm edt shelby citizens to clean up wed oct 9 , 2013 6 : 17 pm edt grant to aid leland clinic thu oct 10 , 2013 2 : 17 pm edt the blotter for 10 / 10 thu oct 10 , 2013 4 : 17 pm edt company to bring up to 40 jobs thu oct 10 , 2013 4 : 17 pm edt asbury foundation donates $ 1.5m for hospice fri oct 11 , 2013 02 : 17 am edt hpd swears in 2 new officers fri oct 11 , 2013 02 : 17 am edt rally at flowood hospital targets state ’ s largest insurer fri oct 11 , 2013 02 : 17 am edt pike gop fundraiser set for thursday wed aug 28 , 2013 4 : 17 pm edt officials mum on chief tue aug 27 , 2013 4 : 17 pm edt cemetery rocked by damage fri oct 11 , 2013 06 : 17 am edt lamar schools sharing news in new ways fri oct 11 , 2013 06 : 17 am edt asbury foundation donates $ 1.5m for hospice fri oct 11 , 2013 06 : 17 am edt mississippi power warns of scammers fri oct 11 , 2013 06 : 17 am edt cemetery rocked by damage fri oct 11 , 2013 02 : 17 am edt hope ?
boehner offers a short-term debt extension thu oct 10 , 2013 8 : 17 pm edt update : pannell to enter new plea in minor-sex case thu oct 10 , 2013 6 : 17 pm edt searchers find overdue west fork hikers thu oct 10 , 2013 8 : 07 pm edt feds considering offers to reopen grand canyon thu oct 10 , 2013 6 : 07 pm edt feds agree to let states pay to reopen national parks thu oct 10 , 2013 2 : 07 pm edt flagstaff glass recycled at last thu oct 10 , 2013 10 : 07 am edt feds considering offers to reopen grand canyon thu oct 10 , 2013 8 : 07 pm edt student fee for sports programs discussed at asu thu oct 10 , 2013 6 : 07 pm edt pit bulls : aggressive or misunderstood ?
fri oct 11 , 2013 02 : 07 am edt ’ baywatch ’ star makes ’ thyroid sexy ’ thu oct 10 , 2013 10 : 07 am edt ’ baywatch ’ star makes thyroid sexy ’ thu oct 10 , 2013 02 : 08 am edt hookah lounges pervasive near ua campus fri oct 11 , 2013 04 : 07 am edt ’ it ’ s suspicious ’ up to 10 javelinas found killed in tucson area fri oct 11 , 2013 04 : 07 am edt fed shutdown closes madera canyon fri oct 11 , 2013 04 : 07 am edt tucson man dies in rockslide fri oct 11 , 2013 04 : 07 am edt comet ison is looking pretty good as it approaches the sun fri oct 11 , 2013 04 : 07 am edt radar van locations thu oct 10 , 2013 04 : 07 am edt man arrested in fatal tucson rollover was victim ’ s best friend fri oct 11 , 2013 02 : 07 am edt az game and fish investigating javelina killings fri oct 11 , 2013 12 : 07 am edt trojans have too many horses for arizona fri oct 11 , 2013 06 : 07 am edt disabled vet robbed of his way to get around town fri oct 11 , 2013 02 : 07 am edt arrest in deadly weekend rollover fri oct 11 , 2013 12 : 07 am edt up to 10 javelina found dead on the eastside fri oct 11 , 2013 12 : 07 am edt cocopah cultural celebration set for saturday fri oct 11 , 2013 02 : 07 am edt kecy currently not available on directv fri oct 11 , 2013 02 : 07 am edt that is why carbon dioxide is called a " greenhouse gas . "
of course , too much of the greenhouse gases can cause too much heating of the atmosphere : " global warming . "
sangduen & ldquo ; lek & rdquo ; chailert is trying to save her country ’ s most sacred animal .
nfl players may be the best positioned to tackle the issue .
the question is where the benefits end and the disadvantages might begin .
after a video went viral of a worker ’ s resignation , the company put forward its own song and dance on screen .
a new study looks at what an interesting job is really worth to workers .
we may be heading toward a & ldquo ; mutually hurting stalemate . & rdquo ; ( yes , that ’ s a real thing . )
there ’ s new research on women and minorities who are first-time directors .
susan cain , author of ’ quiet , ’ on how our offices are built for the extrovert .
lillian cunninghama thai sanctuary for elephantsthe science of introverts and the workplacemore by lillian cunningham the fed coachthe best , brightest , youngestadvice on leading during changing , challenging timesmore by tom fox the women who do it all but don 't have it all & ldquo ; the blindness was terrifying .
but it also forced pierson to expand her ability to solve puzzles in her mind . & rdquo ; click to see on bloomberg businessweek & ldquo ; what do you call the man who is trying to sabotage chrysler ’ s initial public offering ? & rdquo ; click to see on new york times find out more about our section , our staff and how to get in touch .
yet there is a different dimension to the problem , and that is the use of minerals for much needed government revenue , and to an extent , some auxiliary industries one of which , to start with , should not be the generation of nuclear power .
if you find our content useful you can help us out by recommending the site to your friends and / or by liking our page on facebook .
wedding attirebudgetslegal affairsengagementetiquetteevent planninghoneymooninvitationskinds of weddingsother eventsphotographerreceptionsprofessionalsshowers & partiesthe ceremonygifts & flowers have you tried a tabata-style workout ?
let us know what you think in the comments below !
tabata training what is tabata training ? | tabata training tabata training | shape magazine the unbelievable 4-minute cardio workout | men 's health tabata training 101 | sparkpeople tabata : is this workout worth the pain ? - telegraph ask the ripped dude : what the heck is tabata training ?
these high intensity workouts in group setting terrify me ... injuries . and , i hate to say it to people : you cant out train a bad diet ... the heavy lifting happens in the kitchen . a good balance of quality lean proteins , low glycemic carbs and healthy fats is 80 % of the battle ... .. aand we now have a new catchphrase buzzword marketing term : tabata been reading a ton of motivational material. the latest i found was in scientific american august 2013 .
if i can keep myself psyched it helps me go excellent approach . i too got bored with p90x . it 's a great program but the hour long workouts just don 't engage me .
i don 't mind working out for an hour but i need variation and a mix of cardio and strength . i still use p90x but only occassionally substitute the workouts into my normal routines .
the one p90x routine that i use the most now is the yoga one . it 's one of the best yoga workouts i 've done and is a great recovery workout . i found that insanity had too much plyo . the tapout xt workout is must better and diversified . the supreme series has a really good tabata workout . but basically i mix up my routines .
some days i run , some i do a video , some i mix up , and sometimes i do alternative workouts like crossfit or mountain biking . the main thins is i keep moving and stay active .
can do the same w / a stationary bike or elliptical machine ( use the one w / the arm attachment ) .
the benefits of hiit are pretty profound , and include the boosting of testosterone and human growth hormone .
how deep cuts in government spending are transforming europe as it grapples with debt.portugal tries to transformin greece , austerity kindles deep discontenteuropean social benefits are untouchable no more looking back at the major developments of the last six months of the u.s.s.r. how a decade at war is changing the u.s. military .
the mental wounds of wardrone operators climb on winds of changeworking with the insurgents 4 key lessons from some of nashville ’ s top entrepreneurs thu oct 10 , 2013 3 : 26 pm edt after-school programs reach out to middle schoolers mon oct 7 , 2013 11 : 26 pm edt middle schoolers get their moment mon oct 7 , 2013 7 : 26 pm edt midstate man says he ’ s being targeted by union workers thu oct 10 , 2013 7 : 26 pm edt now that the new ipad is here , it ’ s much easier to compare its specifications against a host of competitors .
the offices of facebook and google go far beyond cubicles .
here ’ s a look at how canon ’ s newest dslr camera stacks up to its competition .
facebook ceo is on track to become the youngest ceo of a fortune 1000 company .
here ’ s a look at the tech titan over the years .
here ’ s a collection of some of cool uses of technology. set a page titleset a page titleset a page title hippos under threat as lake babati declines na lusekelo philemon & ldquo ; this lake was one of the best habitats for hippopotamuses in northern tanzania . & rdquo ; a fish vendor in babati town , mariam palakani , describes the situation as an appalling , as fish are no more in the lake . & ldquo ; i have been doing this business for three years , but , i am now thinking of changing the business as this one is not paying any more , & rdquo ; she says as chasing for fish customers at the babati central bus station .
mariam is among thousands of people , who depend on the lake for their own survival .
a farmer-cum-trader in babati , mustapha akoisu recounts that in the past , one just had to stand at the shore to get a glimpse of the hippos , hundreds of them , but now it may take hours of intensive search on water to trace just a few .
an 87-year-old man hamidu juma points his fingers on increased number of people in the area as one of the reason for the dwindling of water levels in the lake .
manyara regional police commissioner , akili mpwapwa says the pig-shaped ’ water horses ’ are now dangerous than before .
in his recommendations , kahurananga proposed the need for local authorities to put permanent demarcations of 100 meters from the lake .
babati town director , omar mkombole admits that hippos in the lake are the victims of circumstance , as the lake is threatened by environmental degradation .
babati district commissioner , khalid mandia describes hippos as an important icon for lake babati and & ldquo ; as leaders , we ’ re taking it as an important product to sell it for tourists . & rdquo ; & ldquo ; in the past , one just had to stand at the shore to get a glimpse of the hippos , hundreds of them , but now it may take hours of intensive search on water to trace just a few , & rdquo ; he says .
rabid raccoon discovered in anne arundel park wed oct 9 , 2013 4 : 15 pm edt traffic stop leads to arrest of two severn men on handgun charges tue oct 8 , 2013 8 : 15 pm edt business district in catonsville community welcomes revitalization mon aug 12 , 2013 10 : 15 am edt pikesville grad primed for u.s. amateur golf championship mon aug 12 , 2013 10 : 15 am edt hampstead woman charged in death of her 4-year-old daughter fri sep 6 , 2013 6 : 15 pm edt some boston marathoners will run baltimore ’ s race ’ because there are other people who can ’ t ’ thu oct 10 , 2013 12 : 15 am edt man shot in east baltimore wed oct 9 , 2013 10 : 15 pm edt comptroller to audit baltimore ’ s tax billing mon oct 7 , 2013 8 : 15 pm edt nj woman charged in death of father thu oct 10 , 2013 08 : 15 am edt les forces de sécurité ont tué par balles au moins 70 partisans du président déchu mohamed morsi , tôt samedi , affirme la confrérie des frères musulmans .
son porte-parole , gehad el-haddad , a déclaré que la police avait ouvert le feu peu avant la prière matinale , non loin de la mosquée de rabba al-adawiya , où les partisans de mohamed morsi organisaient un sit-in permanent depuis la reprise en main du pays par l 'armée il y a plus de trois semaine .
" ils ne tirent pas pour blesser mais pour tuer " , soutient-il .
la télévision qatarie , al-jazeera , donne un bilan de 120 morts et d 'environ 4 les partisans et opposants de morsi , incarcéré depuis le coup d 'etat , avaient le chef d 'état-major , le général abdel fattah al-sisi , qui a joué un rôle déterminant dans le coup qui a chassé du pouvoir mohamed morsi , devenu très impopulaire , avait lancé un appel aux egyptiens à descendre dans la rue afin de lui donner un mandat " pour lutter contre les violences et le terrorisme . "
le ministre de la défense et vice-premier ministre dans le nouveau gouvernement a été entendu puisque plusieurs centaines de milliers d 'egyptiens vendredi le ministre de l 'intérieur , mohamed ibrahim , avait déclaré qu 'il serait bientôt mis fin légalement au sit-in des pro-morsi autour de la mosquée les occidentaux sont de plus en plus inquiets par la tournure des événements jeudi il a été annoncé que morsi devra répondre de charges de complot avec un groupe étranger , en l 'occurence le hamas , qui aurait participé à l 'attaque d 'une prison où il était incarcéré au début du soulèvement populaire contre le plusieurs détenus et gardiens avaient été tués et des soldats enlevés .
if we hit the debt ceiling , can obama choose which bills to pay ?
wabunge wamesema serikali imekuwa ikipoteza fedha za kigeni katika sekta ya utalii kutokana na watalii wengi wanaofika kulipia kiwango kidogo cha fedha , huku wakilipa fedha nyingi katika nchi wanazotoka kwa ajili ya kutembelea vivutio vya utalii nchini .
walisema hayo katika kikao kati ya kamati za bunge ya ardhi , maliasili na mazingira na bajeti na viongozi wa chama cha mawakala wa utalii tanzania ( tato ) , kujadili mazingira ya ufanyaji wa biashara nchini katika sekta ya utalii .
habari kamili kamati ya kudumu ya bunge ya tawala za mikoa na serikali za mitaa ( tamisemi ) imemuagiza mkuu wa wilaya ya arusha , john mongella kumsaka mstahiki meya wa arusha , gaudence lyimo , ili apelekwe kwenye kamati hiyo kwa ajili ya kusuluhishwa mvutano wake na mkurugenzi wa jiji la arusha , sipora liana .
rais jakaya kikwete na wenyeviti wa vyama vya chadema , cuf na nccr-mageuzi , sasa watakutana kwa ajili ya mazungumzo kuhusu muswada wa sheria ya marekebisho ya sheria ya mabadiliko ya katiba ya mwaka 2013 , unaodaiwa na vyama hivyo kuwa una kasoro , ikulu , jumanne wiki ijayo .
mbunge wa dodoma mjini , david malolle ( ccm ) , ametangaza rasmi kujitoa kwenye ujumbe wa bodi ya mamlaka ya ustawishaji makao makuu ( cda ) na kuwataka wananchi kuandamana ili mamlaka hiyo ifutwe kwani imekuwa ikibomoa mji na si kuuboresha .
uhuru wa vyombo vya habari umezidi kutiwa kitanzini kufuatia serikali kupanga kuwasilisha katika bunge mwezi huu , muswada wa marekebisho ya sheria ya mbalimbali ya mwaka 2013 ikiwamo sheria ya magazeti ya mwaka 1976 ambayo sasa faini itaongezwa kwa chombo cha habari kinachofanya kosa kwa kiwango cha asilimia 3,233 .
bunge limesema limepokea taarifa rasmi iliyowasilishwa na mbunge wa kigoma kaskazini ( chadema ) , zitto kabwe , ya kukusudia kuwasilisha bungeni muswada binafsi wa marekebisho ya sheria ya magazeti ya mwaka 1976 , kwa lengo la kuifuta kabisa sheria hiyo .
licha ya jeshi la polisi kutumia nguvu kubwa ya kumsaka mbunge wa arusha mjini , godbless lema ( chadema ) kwa kumvamia nyumbani kwake usiku , kuizingira wakiwa wamejihami kwa silaha nzito na mabomu ya machozi kisha kumkamata na kumfunga pingu , baadaye kumfungulia mashitaka ya uchochezi , serikali imeamua kufuta mashitaka hayo .
mahakama ya hakimu mkazi wa sokoine drive , jijini dar es salaam , jana ilishindwa kutoa uamuzi dhidi ya kesi ya kuuza sukari iliyo haribika inayoikabili kampuni ya tanzania pharmaceutical industries limited ( tpi ) baada ya wakili wa utetezi , dennis msafiri , kushindwa kufika mahamani hapo kwa madai ya kuumwa .
mahakama kuu tanzania , kanda ya dar es salaam , imesema itatoa uamuzi desemba 12 , mwaka huu dhidi pingamizi zitakazowasilishwa na upande wa mlalamikiwa kwa njia ya maandishi dhidi ya katibu mkuu wa ccm , abdulrahman kinana .
tume ya mabadiliko ya katiba imelishangaa bunge kwa ’ undumila kuwili ’ wake wa kupitisha sheria mbili zinazokinzana kuhusiana na mchakato unaosimamiwa na tume hiyo .
mwenyekiti wake , jaji joseph warioba alitoa kauli hiyo jana jijini dar es salaam wakati akizungumza na waandishi wa habari , kwa lengo la kuwapa taarifa ya uendeshaji wa mabaraza ya katiba , ngazi ya serikali za mitaa ulivyofanyika .
wizara ya ardhi , nyumba na maendeleo ya makazi imesema kwa sasa haina fedha za kutekeleza agizo la kamati ya hesaba za serikali ( pac ) la kurudia upya zoezi la utoaji wa hati za ardhi , pamoja na kuziweka katika mfumo wa kielektroniki badala ya mfumo wa karatasi ( analojia ) .
waziri wa nchi ofisi ya rais ( mahusiano na uratibu ) , stephen wassira , amekoleza mjadala wa mchakato wa katiba mpya baada ya kuyataka makundi vikiwamo vyama vya upinzani kama vina hoja za msingi zitakazofanya usisainiwe muswada wa marekebisho ya mabadiliko ya katiba wampelekee rais .
tunaondoa wahamiaji haramu , siyo wakimbizi , kikwete aliambia bunge la marekani rais jakaya kikwete ameiambia kamati ya bunge la marekani kuwa tanzania haijafukuza mkimbizi hata mmoja kutoka nchini na wanaoondolewa ni wahamiaji haramu walioingia na kuishi nchini bila kufuata taratibu na sheria za uhamiaji .
mchakato wa kupata katiba mpya umeendelea kupingwa , baada ya wanaharakati kuungana na kutoa tamko la kutaka usiharakishwe huku na rais jakaya kikwete , kutousaini muswada wa sheria ya marekebisho ya mabadiliko ya katiba kutokana na kutokuwapo kwa uelewa mpana hususani maeneo ya ukinzani likiwamo suala la muungano .
vyama vya nccr-mageuzi , cuf na chadema , vimeungana kupinga mchakato wa katiba mpya kwa madai kuwa umehodhiwa na chama cha mapinduzi ( ccm ) na kutawaliwa na ubabe wa kanuni na sheria za bunge kwa kuunyima upande wa zanzibar haki ya kushiriki .
serikali imesema miongoni mwa wanaokwamisha vita dhidi ya ujangili ni wabunge kutokana na baadhi yao kujihusisha na biashara ya pembe za ndovu .
pamoja na kuwataja wabunge ambao ndiyo watunga sheria nchini , serikali imesema pia vita hiyo inashindwa kupata mafanikio kutokana na kuwa na mtandao mkubwa wa wafanyabiashara wakubwa na maofisa wa serikali kujihusisha na biashara hiyo .
mahakama ya rufani tanzania imeombwa kutupa rufaa ya kupinga hukumu ya mahakama kuu iliyothibitisha mbunge wa singida mashariki kupitia chama cha demokrasia na maendeleo ( chadema ) , tundu lissu , kuwa alishinda kihalali katika uchaguzi mkuu wa mwaka 2010 kwa madai kuwa mlalamikaji wa kwanza katika kesi hiyo , shaaban selema amehamia chama hicho .
upelelezi wa tuhuma zinazomkabili mbunge wa mbeya mjini , joseph mbilinyi maarufu kama sugu ( chadema ) , bado unaendelea .
sugu aliripoti kituo cha polisi mjini hapa majira ya asubuhi akiwa ameongozana na wakili wake , mbunge wa singida mashariki ( chadema ) , tundu lissu .
mhadhiri wa chuo kikukuu cha dar es salaam , profesa chris maina , amesema kuna hofu ya kuwa na katiba yenye mtazamo wa chama kimoja cha siasa kutokana na utaratibu uliowekwa wa wajumbe wanaotakiwa kushiriki kwenye bunge la maalumu la katiba .
mbunge wa arusha mjini , godbless lema ( chadema ) , amewataka waumini wa dini kujifunza wajibu wao wa kutoa sadaka nzuri na kuacha kupokea fedha chafu .
alisema hayo mwishoni mwa wiki akiwa mgeni rasmi wakati wa harambee ya kuchangia mfuko wa maendeleo wa parokia ya mtakatifu francis xaver , iliyopo olosipa eneo la sakina kwa iddi .
muswada wa marekebisho ya sheria ya mabadiliko ya katiba wa mwaka 2013 umezidi kuibua mapya , baada ya chama cha demokrasia na maendeleo ( chadema ) kudai kwamba , kikao cha bunge kilichofanya maamuzi ya kuupitisha hakikuwa halali .
wakati mbunge wa mbeya mjini ( chadema ) , joseph mbilinyi , maarufu kwa jina la sugu , akielezewa kujisalimisha polisi , huenda akakabiliwa na hatari ya kufikishwa mahakamani kwa makosa ya jinai .
muswada wa sheria wa mabadiliko ya sheria ya katiba wa mwaka 2013 , umepitishwa ' kiulani ’ na wabunge wa chama cha mapinduzi ( ccm ) huku wenzao wa upinzani wakisusia .
tofauti na ilivyotarajiwa na wengi kwamba muswada huo ungekwamishwa ama kupita kwa mbinde , lakini ulipitishwa jana kwa kufanyiwa mabadiliko madogo na wabunge wa ccm walioshiriki kikamilifu kuujadili kwa kuzungumza na wengine kwa maandishi .
muswada wa sheria ya marekebisho ya mabadiliko ya katiba wa mwaka 2013 umeligawa bunge , baada ya wabunge kutoka vyama vya chadema , nccr-mageuzi na cuf kususia mjadala wa muswada huo na kutoka nje ya ukumbi wa bunge na kuwaacha wabunge wa ccm na augustine mrema wa tlp .
baadhi ya washiriki wa mkutano wa 10 wa umoja wa kamati za bunge za hesabu za serikali kwa nchi za jumuiya ya maendeleo ya kusini mwa afrika ( sadcopac ) , wamevitaka vyama vilivyounda serikali zilizopo madarakani kuwapa uhuru wa majadiliano na usimamiaji wa hoja zenye maslahi ya umma ndani ya vikao vya bunge .
tanzania kwa mara ya kwanza katika historia ya bunge la afrika mashariki imefanikiwa kupata kikao rasmi katika ratiba ya vikao vya bunge hilo .
mwenyekiti wa wabunge watanzania katika bunge la afrika mashariki , adam kimbisa , alisema tanzania kama nchi pia imefanikiwa kupata kikao chake .
daftarila kudumu la wapigakura linapaswa kufanyiwa maboresho kila wakati ili kuwawezesha watanzania wanaofikisha umri wa miaka 18 waandikishwe , mmoja wa wajumbe wa mabaraza ya katiba amependekeza .
wabunge wamekishambulia vikali chama kilele ( apex ) , cha kusambaza pembejeo kwa wakulima nchini na kuitaka serikali kukifutilia mbali kutokana na sababu kadhaa ikiwamo ya kuwanyonya wakulima .
bunge limeishauri serikali kuweka utaratibu wa kuwabana wabadhirifu wa fedha za vyama vya ushirika na kama watathibitika kuhusika na kosa hilo , wafilisiwe mali zao zote pamoja na kufidia hasara iliyopatikana .
kambi ya upinzani bungeni imemshushia tuhuma nzito waziri wa maliasili na utalii , balozi khamis kagasheki ( pichani ) , ikiwamo ya kushinikiza mradi upewe msaada wa sh. milioni 10 kutoka mamlaka ya hifadhi ya ngorongoro ( ncaa ) kinyume cha taratibu .
kikao cha bunge kinatarajia kuendelea leo mjini hapa baada ya mapumziko ya mwishoni mwa wiki huku miswada miwili ya sheria kati ya sita iliyopangwa kuwasilishwa katika mkutano wa bunge wa 12 , kujadiliwa ikiondolewa .
baraza la kitaasisi la wanawake wanahabari , limesema katiba mpya iainishe suala la usawa katika nyanja zote za uongozi ikiwa ni pamoja na uongozi wa mihimili mikuu mitatu ya utawala yaani serikali , bunge na mahakama .
mvutano uliokuwapo kati ya wabunge wa rwanda , uganda na kenya kutaka vikao vya bunge la afrika ya mashariki ( eala ) vifanyike kwa mzunguko kwa nchi wanachama , huku tanzania wakipinga umemalizika kwa makubaliano kila nchi kifanyike kikao kimoja katika kalenda ya mwaka .
mbio za kugombea urais katika uchaguzi mkuu wa mwaka 2015 kupitia chama cha mapinduzi ( ccm ) zimeanza kuchukua sura mpya , baada ya baadhi ya vigogo kujitokeza hadharani kumpigia debe spika wa bunge , anne makinda .
kauli iliyotolewa juzi bungeni na waziri wa nchi , ofisi ya waziri mkuu ( sera , uratibu na bunge ) , william lukuvi , kuwa wabunge wengi ni miongoni mwa orodha ya majina ya wanaojihusisha na biashara ya dawa za kulevya , imeoonekana kuwachefua wabunge .
sakata la biashara ya dawa za kulevya sasa limechukua sura mpya baada ya jana waziri wa nchi , ofisi ya waziri mkuu ( sera , uratibu na bunge ) , william lukuvi , kulieleza bunge kuwa iwapo serikali itaamua kuwataja vigogo wa biashara hiyo nchini kama inavyopewa taarifa kutoka vyanzo mbalimbali , hakuna atakayepona kwani miongoni mwao wamo wabunge wengi .
wakati wananchi wakiwa hawajajua majaliwa yao juu maamuzi ya serikali kuhusu kilio chao dhidi ya kodi ya simu ya sh .
1,000 kwa mwezi iliyopitishwa na bunge la bajeti ya mwaka 2013 / 14 , kuna habari kwamba mzigo huo sasa unaweza kuhamishiwa kwenye ununuaji wa vocha .
mkutano wa 12 wa bunge la jamhuri ya muungano wa tanzania unatarajiwa kuanza mjini hapa leo ambapo pamoja na mambo mengine , utajadili miswada sita .
kwa mujibu wa ratiba iliyotolewa na ofisi ya bunge hapa jana , kikao kitaanza saa 3 : 00 asubuhi kwa kipindi cha maswali na majibu na baadaye kufuatiwa na muswada wa sheria ya taifa ya umwagiliaji wa mwaka 2013 ambao utajadiliwa hadi kesho jumatano .
tegemeo la umma kwa serikali kuwasilisha bungeni muswada wa mabadiliko ya sheria iliyoanzisha tozo la shilingi 1,000 kwa mwezi kwa watumiaji wa simu za kiganjani , limetoweka .
hali hiyo inatokana na bunge kupanga ratiba ya shughuli zake kwa mkutano wa 12 unaoanza jumanne wiki ijayo mjini dodoma , pasipo kuwapo muswada wa mabadiliko ya sheria ya fedha inayoanzisha tozo za simu .
kamati ya kudumu ya bunge ya hesabu za serikali ( pac ) , imesema kuwa taarifa ya matumizi ya fedha katika wizara ya ujenzi , ina shaka kwani kuna fedha ambazo ziliombwa kwa ajili ya miradi ambayo haipo .
shirika la nyumba la taifa ( nhc ) , limesema baadhi ya wanasiasa walioko katika mamlaka za juu serikalini , watu maarufu pamoja na matajiri , wamekuwa wakiendesha vitendo vya hujuma za makusudi kwa nia mbaya ya kukwamisha kasi ya utendaji kazi mzuri wa shirika .
kamati ya hesabu za serikali ( pac ) , imeiagiza wizara ya ardhi , nyumba na maendeleo ya makazi kurudia upya zoezi la utoaji wa hati za ardhi zote , pamoja na kuziweka katika mfumo wa kielektroniki badala ya mfumo wa karatasi , yaani analojia .
kamati tatu za bunge zimelalamikia sheria ya maadili ya viongozi wa umma kwamba haiweki uwazi wa kutangaza umiliki wa mali za viongozi hivyo kusababisha viongozi kutoweka wazi mali wanazomiliki .
mbunge wa urambo mashariki ( ccm ) , samuel sitta , amesema mahasimu wake kisiasa , wameimarisha mkakati wa kumchonganisha na wabunge , ili kufifisha jitihada zake za kupambana na ufisadi .
kamati ya bunge ya ardhi , maliasili na mazingira imesema vigogo wakubwa wa serikali wanaongoza kwa kujihusisha na biashara ya pembe za ndovu ndiyo maana zoezi la kuzuia majangili halifanikiwi kwa miaka mingi .
madudu zaidi yamebainika katika wizara ya elimu na mafunzo ya ufundi , baada ya kuwapanga baadhi ya wanafunzi wa kidato cha tano kwenye shule ambazo hazina masomo ya michepuo yao .
hii ni baada ya wanafunzi 1,189 waliochaguliwa kujiunga kidato cha tano katika shule mbalimbali nchini kubadilishwa na kupangiwa shule nyingine .
mahakama ya hakimu mkazi mkoa wa mtwara imetupilia mbali mashtaka ya uchochezi yaliyokuwa yakimkabili mbunge wa mtwara mjini ( ccm ) , hasnain murji , hivyo ameachiwa huru .
murji alikuwa akikabiliwa na tuhuma za uchochezi wa vurugu za kupinga kujengwa bomba la kusafirisha gesi asilia kutoka mkoani mtwara hadi jijini dar es salaam , zilizosababisha vifo vya watu watatu na wengine kadhaa kujeruhiwa mei , mwaka huu .
mbunge wa masasi mjini , mariam kasembe ( ccm ) , amemwaga machozi mbele ya waziri wa maji , profesa jumanne maghembe , baada ya kutembele nyumba yake iliyoteketezwa kwa moto na wananchi katika vurugu zilizotokea machi , mwaka huu .
wajumbe wa kamati ya bunge ya hesabu za serikali za mitaa ( laac ) wamekuja juu kutokana na ujenzi wa soko la mwanjelwa la halmashauri ya jiji la mbeya kusuasua na kuiomba serikali kuingilia baada ya mkandarasi kudaiwa kuandika barua ya kuomba kusitisha mkataba .
wakati jeshi la polisi likitoa visingizio kwamba linashindwa kunasa watuhumiwa wanaosafirisha dawa za kulevya wanaopitia uwanja wa ndege wa kimataifa wa julius nyerere ( jnia ) , kutokana na kukosekana kwa vitendea kazi , mbunge wa kinondoni ( ccm ) , idd azzan , amesema yupo tayari kupigwa risasi au kunyongwa hadharani kama itathibitika anahusika na biashara hiyo .
serikali sasa imekubali kuwa kodi mpya ya laini ya simu ni mgogoro na inakusudia kurejesha muswada wa sheria ulioazisha kodi hiyo bungeni kwa mjadala zaidi .
waziri wa ushirikiano wa afrika mashariki , samuel sitta ( pichani ) , amesema litakuwa jambo la kuchekesha duniani iwapo nchi maskini kama tanzania itakuwa na marais watatu kama muundo wa serikali tatu uliopendekezwa kwenye rasimu ya katiba mpya utapitishwa .
waziri wa uchukuzi , dk .
harrison mwakyembe , ametoa misaada yenye thamani ya zaidi ya sh. milioni 40 jimboni mwake yakiwamo madawati 315 yatakayogawanywa kwa shule za msingi za jimbo la kyela mkoani mbeya .
hatimaye serikali imetoa tamko kuhusu kuwatoza watumiaji wa simu za mkononi kiasi cha sh.1000 kama kodi kila mwezi kwa madai ya kwamba kodi hiyo ilisharidhiwa na kupitishwa na wabunge wenyewe na kwamba inalenga kuboresha huduma mbalimbali za kijamii nchini .
naibu spika , job ndugai , amewataka wananchi kutoa taarifa katika ofisi ya bunge pale wanapobaini kuwapo kwa matumizi mabaya ya fedha za mfuko wa maendeleo ya jimbo ( cgf ) .
ndugai alisema zipo taratibu zinazotakiwa kufuatwa katika matumizi ya fedha hizo ambazo pamoja na kwamba mbunge ni mwenyekiti wa mfuko huo , lakini haruhusiwi kufanya manunuzi mwenyewe .
mahakama ya hakimu mkazi mkoa wa dodoma , imemfutia mashtaka na kumwachia huru , mbunge wa mbeya mjini , joseph mbilinyi , ( chadema ) , maarufu sugu baada ya kuthibitisha kuwa hati ya mashtaka ina mapungufu ya kisheria .
hofu ya kutopatikana tija kwa fedha nyingi zinazoidhinishwa katika bajeti kwa ajili ya miradi ya kupambana na ukimwi imesababisha makadirio ya matumizi ya ofisi ya makamu wa kwanza wa rais zanzibar maalim seif sharif hamad , kukwama kupitishwa .
mbunge wa iringa mjini ( chadema ) , mchungaji peter msigwa ameitaka serikali ieleze ni lini itawajengea askari nyumba bora ili waweze kuishi katika mazingira mazuri .
msigwa alitoa kauli hiyo jana bungeni alipokuwa akiuliza swali la nyongeza kwa kuitaka serikali ieleze ni lini itawaboreshea makazi askari wa jeshi la polisi hususani askari wa iringa mjini kutokana na kuishi katika nyumba alizosema hazina hadhi .
chama cha demokrasia na maendeleo ( chadema ) kimetajwa kuwa kimeongoza kwa wabunge wake 48 kutoa michango 57 kwenye vikao mbalimbali vya bunge vinavyoendelea mjini dodoma .
tathmini hiyo ya miaka miwili ya bunge ilifanywa na shirika lisilo la kiserikali , twaweza kwa kushirikiana na kituo cha economic prosperity ( cep ) kwa kuzingatia ushiriki wa wabunge katika vikao kwa miaka miwili ya kipindi cha ubunge cha 2010 – 2015 .
jana bunge lilipitisha bajeti ya serikali kwa mwaka wa fedha wa 2013 / 14 huku ikiweka kiporo suala la kupunguza kodi ya mafuta ya petroli , dizeli na taa , kodi ya lipa kadiri unavyopata ( paye ) na bodaboda , badala yake kodi hizo zitatolewa ufafanuzi katika muswada wa fedha utakapowasilishwa bungeni kesho kutwa .
waziri wa fedha , dk .
william mgimwa , leo atakuwa kikaangoni atakapoanza kujibu hoja za wabunge hasa ongezeko la ushuru wa mafuta ya petroli ambalo limelalamikiwa na baadhi ya wabunge wa chama cha mapinduzi ( ccm ) kuwa ina mapungufu kadhaa .
mbunge wa nkasi kaskazini , ali keissy ( ccm ) , amewataka watanzania kuwa makini na sheria mpya ya ndoa inayotarajiwa kuletwa bungeni .
mbunge huyo amesema sheria hiyo mpya inaweza ikasababisha nchi kuongozwa na rais , wabunge na madiwani wanaojihusisha na vitendo vya mapenzi ya jinsia moja ( mashoga ) .
mbunge wa korogwe vijijini , stephen ngonyani maarufu profesa majimarefu ( ccm ) , ametahadharisha wanasiasa kuacha kupandikiza mbegu ya ukabila nchini kwa sababu hali hiyo inakwamisha jitihada za kuwaletea wananchi maendeleo .
mbunge wa kasulu mjini , moses machali ( nccr-mageuzi ) , amejeruhiwa baada ya kupigwa na watu wasiojulikana karibu na nyumbani kwake wakati akitokea kuhudhuria vikao vya bunge .
aidha , kijana mmoja aliyekuwa akimsaidia machali , alijeruhiwa kwa kung ’ atwa meno mgongoni .
mbunge wa viti maalum , clara mwatuka ( cuf ) , amelikana swali lake na kudai kuwa hakuwahi kuuliza swali linalohusu rada hata siku moja . & ldquo ; mheshimiwa spika & hellip ; tangu niingie bungeni hapa sijawahi kuuliza swali linalohusu masuala ya rada hata siku moja kwa hiyo hilo si swali langu , & rdquo ; alisema hata hivyo , spika wa bunge , anne makinda alipoona mbunge huyo amelikana swali hilo alisema : & ldquo ; waziri naomba basi hilo swali liwe langu .
mbunge wa bukene , seleman zedi ( ccm ) , ameitaka serikali kuliwezesha shirika la maendeleo ya petroli ( tpdc ) , ili lidhibiti na kusimamia kampuni zinazojishughulisha na utafiti wa mafuta na gesi nchi ipate faida .
kamati maalum ya kuchunguza mgogoro wa ujenzi wa bomba la gesi asilia kutoka mtwara kwenda dar es salaam , imesema imefikia katika hatua nzuri baada ya kuwasikiliza watu wengi wanaohusika na mgogoro huo .
wakati mbunge wa dole , sylivester mabumba ( ccm ) , akiomba serikali kuunda tume ya kuwachunguza maofisa wa mamlaka ya mapato tanzania ( tra ) wenye mali za kupindukia , mbunge wa manyoni magharibi , john lwenje ( ccm ) ameomba wafanyakazi wa wizara ya fedha waondolewe badala yake wakodiwe wataalam wazungu kufanya kazi hiyo .
serikali sasa isikilize hoja hizi za wabunge kuhusu bajeti ya 2013 / 14 jumatatu ijayo wabunge wa bunge la jamhuri ya muungano wa tanzania watapitisha bajeti ya serikali kwa mwaka wa fedha wa 2013 / 14 iliyowasilishwa bungeni wiki iliyopita .
mbunge wa kawe , halima mdee , ameanza mazoezi makali kwa ajili ya kumkabili nyota wa filamu nchini , jacqueline wolper , katika moja ya mapambano ya ndondi za utangulizi yatakayofanyika kwenye tamasha la matumaini kwenye uwanja wa taifa jijini dar es salaam julai 7 .
mbunge wa sumbawanga mjini ( ccm ) , hillary aeshi , amemlipua mbunge wa zamani wa jimbo la kwela , chrisant mzindakaya , akidai amemilikishwa nyumba 15 za serikali peke yake wilayani sumbawanga .
taarifa ya serikali iliyosomwa bungeni jana na waziri wa nchi , ofisi ya waziri mkuu ( sera , uratibu na bunge ) , william lukuvi , kuhusiana na tukio la shambulizi la bomu jijini arusha jumamosi iliyopita , imemchafua mwenyekiti wa chama cha demokrasia na maendeleo ( chadema ) , freeman mbowe .
kambi ya upinzani bungeni jana ilishindwa kuwasilisha bajeti mbadala bungeni kwa mwaka wa fedha 2013 / 2014 baada ya wabunge wake kutohudhuria kikao hicho .
hata hivyo , kambi hiyo ilitoa hotuba yake kwa vyombo vya habari ikieleza kutumia sh .
mbunge wa mbozi mashariki , godfrey zambi ( ccm ) , ameitaka serikali kutoa tamko kuhusu kauli ya mkurugezi mkuu wa taasisi ya kuzuia na kupambana na rushwa ( takukuru ) , dk .
edward hosea , kuwa amefungwa mikono kuwashtaki vigogo wanaojihusisha na rushwa kubwa kubwa badala yake amepewa uwezo wa kushitaki makosa madogo madogo ongezeko la manunuzi na matumizi makubwa ya serikali , ambalo hayaendi sambamba na ongezeko la juhudi za ukusanyaji wa mapato , yataendelea kuwa mzigo mzito kwa taifa iwapo hatua hazitachukuliwa kurekebisha hali hiyo .
mbunge wa kisesa ( ccm ) , luhaga mpina , amesema hataiunga mkono bajeti ya serikali ya 2013 / 2014 kwa sababu haina jipya ikiwamo kukosekana kwa vyanzo vipya vya mapato na nidhamu katika upangaji wa matumizi .
spika wa bunge , anne makinda , amewashukia wabunge akisema kwamba hawana mtandao wa pamoja katika kusimamia masuala yanayogusa maslahi ya nchi .
amesema wengi wao kila mmoja huwa anajibu hoja yake mwenyewe bila kuwashirikisha wenzake ili aonekane ndiye mwanzilishi .
serikali imetangaza bajeti yake ya mwaka wa fedha wa 2013 / 14 ambayo imepandisha kodi za & hellip ; & hellip ; ili kufanikisha lengo la kukusanya jumla ya sh. trilioni 18.249 kutoka kwenye vyanzo vya ndani na nje .
wabunge wamelalamikia ongezeko la kodi katika mafuta ya petroli wakisema litachangia kupandisha zaidi gharama za maisha kwa wananchi .
lawama hizo walizitoa jana wakati wakitoa maoni yao kuhusu bajeti ya serikali kwa mwaka 2013 / 2014 iliyosomwa na waziri wa fedha , dk .
serikali imebuni mfumo mpya wa usambazaji wa pembejeo utakaotumika katika msimu wa kilimo wa 2013 / 14 .
naibu waziri wa kilimo , chakula na ushirika , adam malima aliliambia bunge mjini hapa jana kuwa , mfumo huo umejadiliwa katika semina ya usambazaji wa pembejeo iliyofanyika mei mwaka huu .
zao la mwani limeanza kukosa soko visiwani hapa na kutokana na mahitaji yake kuwa madogo katika soko la dunia ikilinganishwa na kiwango kikubwa kinachozalishwa na wakulima wa unguja na pemba .
katibu wa mbunge wa mtwara mjini , hasnain murji , meckland millanzi , ameiomba mahakama ya wilaya ya mtwara kutenda haki , bila kushinikizwa na upande wowote ili haki itendeke dhidi ya mbunge huyo , ambaye yuko rumande kwa kushindwa kutimiza masharti ya dhamana .
macho na masikio ya wananchi kesho yanaelekezwa dodoma kusikiliza bajeti ya serikali kwa mwaka 2013 / 14 itakayowasilishwa majira ya saa 10 jioni .
hii ni bajeti muhimu sana kwa wananchi kwa sababu ndiyo itakayofafanua mipango ya maendeleo ya serikali kwa mwaka wa fedha wa 2013 / 14 .
mbunge wa mkinga , dastan kitandula , amesema serikali inapoteza sh. bilioni 26 kwa mwaka kutokana na makampuni matano ya uchimbaji wa madini ambayo yamegoma kulipa kodi .
kutokana na hali hiyo , mbunge huyo ametaka kujua hatua za haraka zinazochukuliwa na serikali kuhakikisha kampuni hizo zinalipa kodi hizo .
mbunge wa jimbo la kilwa kusini , selemani bungara , amewataka wachezaji wa soka kujituma zaidi wawapo mashindanoni kutokana na mchezo huo sasa kugeuka ajira inayolipa .
hayo yalisemwa na diwani wa kata ya masoko , abdallah abbas kwa niaba ya mbunge huyo wakati wa ufunguzi wa mashindano ya kombe la bungara yanayoshirikisha kata mbili za kivinje na masoko zilizopo wilayani kilwa .
wabunge wamepinga marekebisho ya sheria ya uchaguzi wa mamlaka za serikali za mitaa yanayolenga kuongeza muda usiozidi miezi sita inapoonekana kwamba kesi za uchaguzi wa madiwani haziwezi kuhitimishwa ndani ya miezi 18 .
mbunge wa viti maalum ( chadema ) , susan lyimo amependekeza kuwa rais ambaye anamaliza muda wake wa utawala huku akiwa ameshindwa kutekeleza ahadi alizotoa kwenye kampeni za uchaguzi kupelekwa mahakamani .
waziri wa nchi katika ofisi ya waziri mkuu , tawala za mikoa na serikali za mitaa ( tamisemi ) , hawa ghasia , amesema wakaguzi wa ndani ambao watabainika kuwa ripoti zao hazina mapungufu ambayo yameainishwa na mkaguzi wa nje watachukuliwa hatua .
hatimaye hali ya amani katika eneo la kiwanda cha kusindika chai cha mponde imeanza kutengemaa baada ya kikundi cha ushirika wa chai cha kwaminyasa waliokuwa wamezingira kiwanda hicho kwa kuzuia kuendelea kwa shughuli za uendeshaji kuamriwa kuondoka mara moja na serikali ya mkoa wa tanga .
tamashala matumaini ambalo mwaka jana lilifanyika kwenye uwanja wa taifa , dar es salaam , mwaka huu tena linarejea kwenye uwanja huo julai 7 ambapo kutakuwa na burudani na michezo mbalimbali .
mgawanyiko umeibuka miongoni mwa wabunge kupitia chama cha mapinduzi ( ccm ) , ukihusishwa na masuala ya udini katika kupitisha bajeti za wizara zilizowasilishwa bungeni .
vyanzo vya habari kutoka ndani ya kamati ya wabunge hao , vimeeleza kuwa , licha ya chama hicho kuwa katika makundi yanayopingika kwa misimamo , wameibuka wabunge wanaotumia mianya ya kidini kupenyeza ajenda zao .
ile ’ nyundo ’ inayotumiwa kuwashughulikia wabunge wanaotokana na vyama vya siasa , inaelekea kuzikwa rasmi , baada ya rasimu ya katiba mpya ya mwaka 2013 , iliyozinduliwa jumatatu wiki hii , kupendekeza kwamba uamuzi wa vyama hivyo wa kuwafukuza au kuwavua uanachama , hautapoteza ubunge wao .
kambi ya upinzani imeibua sakata la ufisadi wa shilingi bilioni 133 kwenye akaunti ya madeni ya nje ( epa ) ikihoji mambo kadhaa ikiwamo kiasi cha fedha zilizorejeshwa hadi sasa .
mwenyekiti wa chama cha nccr-mageuzi , james mbatia , ameitaka serikali kusitisha usambazaji wa nakala za vitabu na mihutasari inayofikia milioni 18 , akiviita kuwa ni ’ sumu kwa kizazi cha tanzania ’ .
mbunge wa viti maalum ( chadema ) , suzan lyimo , ameibana serikali akiitaka ilielezea taifa kwanini mawaziri wametoa kauli mbili tofauti kuhusiana na upangaji wa matokeo ya kidato cha nne kwa kutumia mfumo mpya wa fixed grade ranges , ambao unaelezwa kusababisha wanafunzi wengi kufeli .
bunge juzi lilipitisha makadirio ya mapato na matumizi ya wizara ya elimu na mafunzo ya ufundi baada ya kuwako kwa mjadala mkali na wa kina juu ya utendaji wa wizara hii .
mambo mengi ya kimsingi yaliwekwa wazi hasa juu ya kuendelea kuporomoka kwa ubora wa elimu nchini .
waziri wa nchi ofisi ya rais ( mahusiano na uratibu ) , steven wassira na makamu mkuu wa chuo kikuu cha mtakatifu agustino ( saut ) , dk.charles kitima , wametoana jasho kwenye mhadhara wa jumuiya ya wanafunzi wa saut , wakati walipokuwa wakijadili dhana ya maendeleo na amani ya nchi .
wakati umma ukiendelea kujadili rasimu ya katiba mpya iliyotolewa na tume ya katiba , kundi ambalo linaelekea kukumbwa na kimbunga kikubwa ni watu waliokuwa wanausaka ubunge ili kupata nafasi za uwaziri .
mbunge wa rombo ( chadema ) , joseph selasini , ’ amemshukia ’ mbunge wa mbinga magharibi ( ccm ) , john komba , kwa kutunga na kuimba nyimbo zinazochochea kuvuruga amani , umoja na mshikamano nchini .
kuna dalili kwamba tume ya katiba mpya chini ya mwenyekiti wake , jaji joseph warioba , imetaga yai la dhahabu .
pamoja na kila aina ya udhaifu ambao unaweza kutajwa kuwamo ndani ya rasimu ya katiba mpya ya jamhuri ya muungano wa tanzania iliyowekwa hadharani jumatatu wiki hii , bado ukweli mmoja unabakia umesimama wima na kuonekana wazi na kila muungwana na anayeitakia nchi hii mema .
mbunge wa ccm ailipua serikali matokeo mabaya kidato cha nne kasi ya wabunge kupitia chama cha mapinduzi ( ccm ) , kukosoa utekelezaji wa serikali ya rais jakaya kikwete inazidi kuongezeka ndani ya bunge .
jana , mbunge wa ngara ( ccm ) , deogratias ntukamazina , aliikosoa serikali hiyo kwa kuyafuta matokeo ya mtihani wa kidato cha nne kwa mwaka 2012 , kisha kuyatangaza utangaza upya hivi karibuni .
vyama vya wafanyakazi , wanasheria na walemavu vimesema rasimu ya katiba mpya utaleta katiba nzuri .
katibu mkuu wa chama cha walemavu tanzania ( shiviwata ) , elias masamaki , amesema rasimu ya katiba mpya inaonyesha kuwatendea haki walemavu kwa kupendekeza kuwa rais ateue wabunge walemavu kwa kuwa watasaidia kuwakomboa walemavu wenzao .
tabia ya utoro wa mawaziri na wabunge bungeni sasa limegeuka kuwa maisha ya kawaida hata wakati wa kujadili masuala nyeti yenye maslahi kwa taifa .
kuna wakati mbunge wa mwibara ( ccm ) , kangi lugora aliwahi kuomba bunge liahirishe mjadala wa bajeti ya wizara ya kilimo baada ya kuona idadi ndogo sana ya wabunge na mawaziri bungeni .
kumezuka tabia ya baadhi ya wabunge kujigeuza wasemaji wa serikali bungeni kazi ambayo kwa kawaida hufanywa na mawaziri .
kuna baadhi ya wabunge ambao wamesahu kwamba wajibu wao wa msingi ni kuikosoa na kusimamia serikali kuhakikisha inatimiza wajibu wake wa kutimiza ahadi na kuwaletea wananchi maendeleo .
wiki iliyopita , kikao cha bunge la bajeti katika kujadili hotuba ya waziri wa mambo ya nje na ushirikiano wa kimataifa , bernad membe , lilichafuka .
vurugu zikatokea kati ya wabunge wa vyama vinavyoungwa mkono kwa wingi nchini , chama cha demokrasia na maendeleo ( chadema ) na chama cha wananchi ( cuf ) .
mbunge wa kondoa kaskazini , zabein mhita ( ccm ) , amedondosha machozi bungeni baada ya kukumbuka jinsi alivyolazimika kupanda kwenye mti ili kupokea simu ya msiba wa mwanae .
mhita ambaye aliwahi kuwa waziri wa sayansi na teknolojia na elimu ya juu , katika serikali ya awamu ya tatu iliyoongozwa rais mstaafu benjamin mkapa , alimwaga machozi jana wakati akichangia hotuba ya bajeti ya wizara ya mawasiliano , sayansi na teknolojia kwa mwaka 2013 / 2014 .
waziri mkuu mstaafu , edward lowassa , amewataka watanzania kujenga utamaduni wa kuchangia masuala ya maendeleo katika maeneo walikotoka na sio kusubiri kurudishwa katika masanduku wakiwa marehemu .
spika wa bunge , anne makinda , ameshiriki ibada ya maombi maalum kwa ajili ya kumuombea hayati baba wa taifa , mwalimu julisu nyerere .
maombi hayo yalifanyika katika mji wa namgongo nchini uganda yakiwa na lengo la kumtangaza mwalimu nyerere kuwa mwenye heri na hatimaye mtakatifu kulingana na na imani ya dhehebu la kikatoliki .
mbunge wa ngara , deogratias ntukamazina ( ccm ) , amesema baadhi ya watumishi wa halmashauri wana uwezo wa kuwaweka mfukoni wakaguzi wa mahesabu na kupewa hati safi na kuficha mapungufu .
wakati tume ya mabadiliko ya katiba ikizindua rasimu ya katiba ya jamhuri ya muungano wa tanzania jijini dar es salaam leo , wananchi wengi wanashauku kubwa kujua kama itajibu masuala nyeti kama mfumo wa muungano , rasilimali , madaraka ya rais na mengine mengi .
wakati watanzania wakilalamikia mwenendo usioridhisha wa uendeshaji wa vikao vya bunge , naibu spika , job ndugai , ameibuka na kusema kuanzia sasa mbunge kutoka chama cha upinzani akifanya kitendo chochote cha utovu wa nidhamu bungeni hatachukuliwa hatua za kinidhamu .
chama cha demokrasia na maendeleo ( chadema ) na chama cha wananchi ( cuf ) , vimeliangukia bunge na kuomba msahama kwa ’ machafuko ’ waliyoyasabisha jana bungeni mjini dodoma .
dalili za kukwama kwa bajeti ya wizara ya maendeleo ya mifugo , zimeonekana jana , baada ya wabunge kuitaka serikali kuongeza shilingi bilioni 40 katika bajeti ya wizara hiyo kwa mwaka 2013 / 2014 .
hotuba ya kambi rasmi ya upinzani kuhusu bajeti ya wizara ya mambo ya nje na ushrikiano wa kimataifa jana ilisababisha mtafaruku mkubwa bungeni na siku nzima bunge likakwama kufanya shughuli zake .
wabunge wameitaka serikali kuangalia upya misamaha ya kodi nchini ili kuokoa mabilioni ya fedha yanayopotea kila mwaka kutokana na misamaha hiyo .
walitoa rai hiyo jana katika mdahalo ulioandaliwa na asasi za kiraia nchini ( azaki ) , ikiwa ni sehemu ya shughuli zinazofanyika katika maonyesho ya asasi hizo yanayoendelea katika viwanja vya bunge mjini hapa .
mbunge wa jimbo la ludewa ccm ) , deo filikunjombe , amejikuta akibebwa juu juu na wananchi wake baada ya kuwasili katika kijiji cha lupingu , kilichopo katika tarafa ya mwambao wa ziwa nyasa , wilayani humo .
nchi za afrika zimetakiwa kuridhia na kusaini mkataba wa kupinga matumizi yasiyo sahihi ya silaha ambazo hazina alama yoyote ili kupunguza uhalifu katika nchi hizo .
hayo yalielezwa jijini dar es salaam na mbunge wa korogwe mjini ( ccm ) , yusuph abdallah nassir , wakati akifungua mkutano wa mtandao wabunge wanaopigania demokrasia , amani , utawala wa sheria , na haki za binadamu duniani .
upelelezi wa kesi ya kuchochea kutenda kosa na kusababisha uvunjifu wa amani katika chuo cha uhasibu njiro inayomkabili mbunge wa arusha mjini godbless lema umekamilika .
naibu waziri wa sayansi na teknolojia , january makamba , anatuhumiwa kushiriki kuchochea wananchi ili wafanye uasi na kujichukulia sheria mkononi kwa kuwahamasisha kuvamia kiwanda cha kusindika chai cha mponde ambao wamefanya uharibifu mkubwa wilayani lushoto .
mjumbe wa kamati teule ya bunge iliyoundwa na spika anne makinda , wiki iliyopita kwa ajili ya kuchunguza kiini cha mgogoro wa ujenzi wa bomba la gesi kutoka mtwara kwenda dar es salaam , ramo makani , ’ amewatuliza ’ wanafunzi wa vyuo vya elimu ya juu wanaotoka mikoa ya kusini , akiwataka kukaa pembeni na kuiachia kamati hiyo kutafuta ukweli wa madai ya wakazi wa mkoa wa mtwara .
wabunge wameijia juu serikali wakitaka wawekezaji na vigogo waliojilimbikizia ardhi kubwa bila kuiendeleza wafutiwe umiliki ili igawiwe kwa wananchi wasio na ardhi .
walitoa ushauri huo jana wakati wakichangia makadirio ya mapato na matumizi ya wizara ya ardhi , nyumba na maendeleo ya makazi .
mbunge wa kisesa ( ccm ) , luhaga mpina leo anatarajia kuwasilisha bungeni maelezo binafsi kwa spika , juu ya matumizi ya kawaida ya serikali kuwa makubwa kuliko mapato ya ndani na hivyo kusababisha deni la taifa kuongezeka .
spika wa bunge , anne makinda , jumamosi aliunda kamati ya bunge kwenda kuchunguza chanzo cha vurugu mtwara , uamuzi huo wa spika , umepingwa na mbunge wa ubungo , ( chadema ) , john mnyika ambaye amezungumza na mwandishi wetu kuhusu mambo aliyodai kuwa spika amekiuka kanuni za bunge .
bila kumung ’ unya maneno naweza kurudia yaliyowahi kusemwa , yanayosemwa na yanayoendelea kusemwa kuhusu upendeleo wa spika wa bunge , anne makinda , dhidi ya wabunge wa ccm .
yamesemwa mengi kuhusu namna anavyoliendesha bunge kishabiki , inavyoonekana hafanyi hivyo kwa matakwa yake bali kwa shinikizo la waliomweka madarakani .
kambi ya rasmi ya upinzani bungeni , imeorodhesha mashamba 36 yenye ukubwa wa maelfu ya hekta za ardhi ambayo wananchi waliporwa kimabavu na serikali kwa kutofuata sheria na kisha kupewa wawekezaji .
mbunge wa tabora mjini ( ccm ) , aden rage , ameitaka serikali kuongeza ada ya usajili wa magezeti hadi kufikia sh. milioni 500 badala ya sh .
500,000 ilivyo sasa .
rage alitoa kauli hiyo jana bungeni alipokuwa akiuliza swali la nyongeza , akiitaka serikali kuongeza ada ya usajili hadi kufikia sh .
mbunge wa mtwara mjini , hasnain mohamed murji , amesema wananchi wa mtwara hawazuii gesi asilia kusafirishwa kwenda dar es salaam , bali wanachotaka ni kuwapo kwa mchanganuo wa jinsi watakavyonufaika na mradi huo .
katibu mkuu wa wizara ya nishati na madini , eliakim maswi , amezozana na mbunge wa simanjiro ( ccm ) , christopher ole sendeka , kwa kile kinachoelezwa kuchukizwa na tabia ya mbunge huyo ya kuipiga ’ mawe ’ mazito hoja za wizara hiyo .
mbunge wa arusha mjini ( chadema ) , godbless lema , amelishutumu jeshi la polisi mkoani arusha kwamba limekwa kipeperushi cha mkuu wa mkoa wa huo , magesa mulongo , kutokana na kutumika katika kumsafisha katika sakata la kutumiwa ujumbe wa vitisho katika simu yake ya mkononi .
uamuzi wa spika wa bunge , anne makinda , jumamosi kuunda kamati ya bunge kwenda kuchunguza chanzo cha vurugu mtwara umepingwa na mbunge wa ubungo , ( chadema ) , john mnyika .
mnyika anasema bunge lilipaswa kuunda kamati teule badala yake spika ameunda kamati yake maalum ambayo haitazingatia kwa ukamilifu matakwa ya sheria ya kinga , haki na madaraka ya bunge katika kuwahoji mashahidi na kuitisha ushahidi .
baraza la habari la tanzania ( mct ) , limemshukia mbunge kondoa kusini ( ccm ) , juma nkamia , kwa hatua yake ya kulipuuza baraza hilo wakati alishawahi kunufaika nalo kwa kupelekwa india yeye na wadau wengine wa habari kujifunza sheria na haki za kupata habari ziara iliyogharimu sh .
wabunge jana walijadili rasimu ya sera ya elimu huku wakitofautiana kuhusiana na suala la watoto wenye umri wa miaka mitatu kuanza shule ya awali kutokana na mazingira ya vijijini kutofautiana na yale ya mijini .
mjadala wa bajeti ya wizara ya nishati na madini kwa mwaka 2013 / 14 umesitishwa na kuondolewa bungeni ili kuepuka kuchochea vurugu za mtwara .
bajeti hiyo ambayo ilianza kujadiliwa juzi na kupangiwa kumalizika jana , sasa itajadiliwa katika tarehe itakayopangwa kutokana na kuhofia michango ya wabunge kuwa inaweza kuchochea vurugu za gesi mkoani mtwara .
kambi rasmi ya upinzani bungeni imeibua upya sakata la aliyekuwa katibu mkuu wa wizara ya nishati na madini , david jairo na richmond , huku ikilishutumu bunge kwamba , limeshindwa kusimamia utekelezwaji wa maazimio yake .
kamanda wa polisi wa mkoa wa arusha , liberatus sabas , amedai uchunguzi wa awali kuhusu ujumbe unaodaiwa kutumwa na mkuu wa mkoa wa arusha , magesa mulongo , umetumwa na mtandao wa simu wa nje ya nchi .
mbunge wa viti maalum ( chadema ) , rebecca mngodo , amesema ameshangaa kuona hotuba yote ya bajeti ya wizara ya habari , vijana , utamaduni na michezo kutozungumzia kutekwa , kuteswa na kuuawa kwa waandishi wa habari ingawa wako chini ya wizara hiyo .
jukwaa la wahariri tanzania ( tef ) limesema halioni kama kulikuwa na hali ya uchochezi kwenye hotuba iliyowasilishwa na msemaji wa kambi ya upinzani bungeni dodoma juzi , kuhusu makadirio ya mapato na matumizi ya wizara ya habari , vijana utamaduni na michezo .
wanasheria wana usemi kwamba katika kusimamia sheria siyo kutenda haki tu bali haki ionekane ikitendeka ’ .
wanatoa usemi huu wanapojenga hoja kwamba katika kutenda haki ni lazima mchakato wote wa kusimamia haki hiyo uonekana ukisimama kwenye mstari wa haki .
kwa muda mrefu sasa , wananchi nchini nikiwamo mimi , wamekuwa wakishangazwa na baadhi ya wabunge wanaotoa michango na maoni bungeni , wanapokuwa wakichangia hoja , wanasoma kama hotuba ; hali inayoashiria tuamini huenda miongoni mwao wana uelewa mdogo wa kujenga hoja .
mbunge wa iringa mjini ( chadema ) , mchungaji peter msigwa , ameachiwa kwa dhamana baada ya kufikishwa katika mahakama ya hakimu mkazi wilaya ya iringa na watuhumiwa wengine 74 kufuatia vurugu zilizotokea juzi kati ya wafanyabiashara wadogo maarufu kama wamachinga na polisi mjini hapa .
hotuba ya kambi ya upinzani kuhusu makadirio na mapato na matumizi ya wizara ya habari , vijana , utamaduni na michezo , jana ilisababisha shughuli za bunge kusitishwa kwa muda , kwa kile kilichoelezwa kuwa imejaa maneno ya uchochezi .
vurugu kubwa zimezuka kati ya wafanyabiashara ndogo ndogo ( machinga ) na jeshi la polisi mkoani iringa na kusababisha maduka kufungwa , huduma mbalimbali ikiwamo ibada za jumapili kusitishwa baada ya jeshi hilo kutumia nguvu , kuwatawanya wafanyabiashara hao katika eneo la mashine tatu , manispaa ya iringa .
mkutano wa 11 wa bunge la bajeti kwa mwaka wa fedha wa 2013 / 14 unaoendelea wiki hii utatawaliwa na moto mkali utakaowashwa dhidi ya wizara ya nishati na madini kutokana na kukabiliwa na changamoto mbalimbali , miongoni mwake , suala la gesi asilia , upatikanaji wa umeme na kiporo cha hatma ya aliyekuwa katibu mkuu wa wizara hiyo , david jairo .
wabunge waipasha serikali kuacha papara ya kuingia kwenye mikataba ya uchimbaji gesi asilia , kwani itaipeleka nchi pabaya na kuiingiza kwenye hasara kama ilivyotokea kwenye mikataba tata ya madini .
kambi zinazipongana ndani ya chama cha mapinduzi ( ccm ) kuelekea uchaguzi mkuu wa 2015 , zajiimarisha ndani ya bunge , nipashe jumapili limebaini .
mkakati huo unadaiwa kutekelezwa kupitia kamati kadhaa za bunge , mojawapo ikiwa ni kamati ya kudumu ya miundombinu inayoongozwa na mbunge wa kigoma mjini ( ccm ) , peter serukamba .
mbunge wa igunga ( ccm ) , dk .
peter kafumu , amewataka polisi kuwakamata wapinga maendeleo wa jimbo hilo bila kujali wanatoka chama gani .
serikali imetakiwa kuboresha mamlaka ya bandari tanzania ( tpa ) kwakuwa ni tegemeo kubwa la mapato na uchumi wa taifa .
wakichangia bajeti ya wizara ya uchukuzi jana na juzi , wabunge mbalimbali waliozungumza walisema tanzania ina bahati kwa kuzungukwa na nchi sita ambazo zinategemea bandari hiyo .
juhudi za mbuge wa viti maalum ( ccm ) , zarina madabida , kukinusuru kiwanda cha tanzania pharmaceutical industries limited ( tpi ) na kashfa ya kuhusika na dawa bandia za kupunguza makali ya ukimwi ( arv ) , zimeendelea kugonga mwamba baada ya taasisi mbili za serikali kusisitiza kwamba kinahusika na janga hilo .
ofisi ya bunge mjini dodoma , imewataka wabunge wote kuanzia jana kutoegesha magari yao nje ya ukuta wa jengo la bunge kutokana na matishio ya kiulinzi na kiusalama .
tangazo hilo lilisomwa jana ndani ya ukumbi wa bunge na mwenyekiti wa bunge , musa azan zungu .
chama cha wananchi ( cuf ) kimesema kinaungana na watanzania walioonyesha shaka juu ya mchakato wa kupata katiba mpya kwani hakioni nia njema na utayari wa tume kuwa na katiba inayotokana na maoni ya wananchi .
waziri mkuu mstaafu na mbunge wa monduli , edward lowassa ametoa wito wa kuwepo kwa mjadala mpana na wa kina zaidi juu ya tatizo la ajira kwa vijana nchini .
akizungumza katika uzinduzi wa kitabu kinachozungumzia na kutathmini mzozo wa kiuchumi duniani kwa kuiangalia tanzania , jijini dar es salaam jana , lowassa alisema ni muhimu kwa wadau wote wakiwepo wasomi , wanasiasa , wafanyabishara na wananchi wasiyo na ajira hususan vijana , kushiriki katika mjadala huo na kutoa mapendekezo ya suluhisho la tatizo hilo .
wakati rais jakaya kikwete akifikia nusu ya kipindi chake cha pili cha utawala cha miaka mitano na mawaziri wake wakiwasilisha bajeti zao bungeni dodoma , mwishoni mwa wiki hii atakutana na wabunge wote wa chama cha mapinduzi ( ccm ) pamoja na mambo mengine kujadili utekelezaji wa ilani ya uchaguzi ya chama hicho kwa kipindi cha 2010-2015 .
kambi ya upinzani bungeni imeibua kashfa nzito dhidi ya wabunge na waziri kumiliki mradi wa kuzalisha umeme wa upepo , singida na kwenda kuuombea dola za marekani milioni 134 kwa ridhaa ya serikali .
wananchi waliowekeza fedha zao katika kampuni ya development enterpreneurship for community initiative ( deci ) , wametakiwa kuendelea kuwa na subiri wakati sakata la kampuni hiyo likiwa linashughulikiwa .
msemaji mkuu wa kambi ya upinzani katika wizara ya ujenzi , said arfi ( chadema ) , ameonya tabia ya baadhi ya wabunge kuziponda hotuba za kambi za upinzani hata pale zinapotoa mwelekeo wa kujenga maendeleo ya nchi .
mbunge wa nkasi ( ccm ) , ally keissy , jana alisutwa na baadhi wabunge wa ccm kwa hatua yake ya kutounga mkono bajeti ya wizara ya ujenzi .
hatua hiyo ilifuatia wakati kessy akichangia bajeti ya wizara hiyo jana , tofuati na wabunge wengine wa chama hicho kuipongeza wizara ya ujenzi kwa kazi nzuri ya ujenzi wa barabara , alisema haiungi mkono mpaka waziri atakapompa maelezo kuhusu ujenzi wa barabara za sumbawanga .
mbunge wa ludewa , deo filikunjombe ( ccm ) , ( pichani kuliau ) amewataka mawaziri nchini kuiga mfano wa waziri wa ujenzi dk .
john maufuli , wa kugawa rasilimali za nchi kwa watu wote .
filikunjombe aliyasema hayo jana wakati akichangia hotuba ya bajeti ya wizara ya ujenzi kwa mwaka 2013 / 14 .
serikali imesema kuwa itapiga marufuku uuzaji wa ngozi ghafi nje ya nchi kutokana na tanzania kuwa nchi pekee inayouzwa ngozi ambayo haijasindikwa tofauti na nchi nyingine .
uamuzi huo ulitangazwa na waziri wa viwanda na bishara , dk .
mbunge wa kawe , halima mdee ( chadema ) , ( pichani ) ameitaka serikali kutoa maelezo kuhusu utata wa uuzaji wa nyumba 150 za kiwanda cha saruji , wazo , jijini dar es salaam .
alisema mwaka 2011 alipeleka barua kwenye wizara husika kutaka maelezo kuhusu nyumba hizo , ambazo zilikuwa zimewekwa kwenye mchakato wa kuuzwa .
wabunge jana walikuja juu na kuishambulia mifuko ya hifadhi ya jamii wakisema kuwa haiwanufaishi wanachama wake .
moja ya mambo ambayo wabunge hao walilalamikia katika semina hiyo iliyoandaliwa na mamlaka ya usimamizi na udhibiti wa mifuko ya jamii ( ssra ) , ni kuwa wanachama hawanufaiki ni bei kubwa za nyumba zinazouzwa na mifuko hiyo .
halmashauri ya wilaya ya nzega mkoani tabora imeingia katika kashfa ya ufujaji wa fedha kwa kuandaa ziara za ’ ulaji ’ pamoja na kuunda kamati za uchunguzi zisizo na manufaa .
wakati wizara ya fedha ikiwa haijawasilisha bajeti yake ya 2013 / 2014 , mamlaka ya mapato tanzania ( tra ) inadaiwa kupandisha ushuru wa forodha kinyemela .
uchunguzi umebaini kuwa ushuru wa forodha uliopandishwa ni kwa bidhaa zinazotoka nje ya nchi , hali ambayo imezua malalamiko kutoka kwa wafanyabiashara wanaoagiza bidhaa kutoka nje .
mahakama ya rufaa nchini imetengua maamuzi ya mahakama kuu na kumrudishia ubunge wake dk .
peter dalali kafumu ( ccm ) wa jimbo la igunga baada ya kuridhika ha hoja za upande wa mrufani kuwa jaji aliyesikiliza shauri hilo , hakuzingatia matakwa ya kisheria .
juzi jioni wakati wa mjadala wa hotuba ya bajeti ya wizara ya afya na ustawi wa jamii , mbunge wa viti maalum kupitia chama cha mapinduzi ( ccm ) , zarina madabida , alitumia fursa adhimu ya kujadili masuala ya kitaifa kuhusu afya ya watanzania kushambulia watu na taasisi nyingine ambazo haziwezi kufika bungeni kujibu tuhuma hizo .
mahakama ya rufaa imemrejeshea , aeshi hilary ( ccm ) kiti cha ubunge katika jimbo la sumbawanga mjini .
hukumu hiyo ilisomwa jana mahakamani hapo kwa takribani saa 1 : 30 na naibu msajili wa mahakama ya rufaa , zahra maluma .
kambi ya upinzani bungeni , imeionya serikali kuacha kufanya mzaha na amani ya nchi kwa sababu kutoshughulikia wahalifu wanaoivunja amani ni sawa na kuivunja amani moja kwa moja .
akisoma hotuba ya upinzani kuhusiana na bajeti ya wizara ya mambo ya ndani kwa mwaka 2013 / 14 , msemaji wa kambi hiyo , vincent nyerere , alisema kuna umuhimu wa kutafakari jambo hilo kwa mustakabali wa taifa .
kampuni saba za mawasiliano nchini zimeunganishwa kwenye mkongo wa taifa kwa ajili ya kutoa huduma zao kwa wateja .
akizungumza bungeni jana , naibu waziri , ofisi ya makamu wa rais , charles kitwanga alisema mkongo huo wa mawasiliano ulianza kutumika tangu julai , 2010 .
wabunge wametakiwa kupeleka ofisi ya waziri mkuu , tawala za mikoa na serikali za mitaa ( tamisemi ) orodha ya halmashauri ambazo hazitengi fedha za mafunzo kwa wenyeviti wa mitaa na vijiji .
naibu spika wa bunge , job ndugai , amesema karibu nusu ya watumishi wa taasisi ya bunge ni mzigo .
aliyasema hayo jana wakati akichangia katika semina ya wabunge ya mfumo mpya wa usimamizi na ufuatiliaji wa miradi ya maendeleo ili kupata matokeo makubwa sasa .
mbunge wa viti maalum ( ccm ) , vicky kamata , ( pichani kulia ) amatarajiwa kugawa vitabu 5,000 vya masomo ya sayansi , kiingereza na hesabu kwa shule mbalimbali za kata za mkoa wa geita kwa lengo la kuendeleza elimu .
ni jambo lisilopingika kwamba , serikali ya awamu nne chini ya uongozi wa rais jakaya kikwete imekwenda mbali zaidi katika upanuzi wa demokrasia nchini .
bunge la jamhuri ya muungano wa tanzania ni mfano mmojawapo wa ustawi wa demokrasia nchini .
maryamu salum msabaha : wabunge wa zanzibar wasigeuzwe ' mbuzi wa albadiri ' ni mbunge wa kwanza wa bunge la jamhuri ya muungano wa tanzania wa viti maalum kutoka zanzibar , ambaye ameamua kujitokeza hadharani kupinga kwa nguvu zake zote kile anachokiita & ldquo ; wabunge kutoka visiwani zanzibar kugeuzwa ’ mbuzi wa albadiri ’ .
kamati ya watu saba iliyoundwa kuchunguza mfumo mzima katika sekta ya ujenzi hapa nchini , imeongezewa muda wa wiki mbili baada ya kushindwa kukamilisha kazi yake kutokana na kukosa nyaraka mbalimbali .
kiongozi wa kambi rasmi ya upinzani bungeni , freeman mbowe , amelalamikia kitendo cha wabunge wengi wa chama cha mapinduzi ( ccm ) waliokuwa wamepangwa kuchangia mjadala wa bajeti ya wizara ya maliasili na utalii kwa mwaka 2013 / 14 , kutofanya hivyo na hivyo , kusababisha muda pamoja na mamilioni ya shilingi za kuendesha shughuli za bunge kupotea .
mbunge wa nkenge , assumpter mshamba ( ccm ) , amelitaka shirikisho la soka tanzania ( tff ) kutoa nafasi kwa wataalam wake wa ufundi kuzunguka katika mikoa yote nchini kusaka vipaji vipya vitakavyojiunga na timu ya taifa & ldquo ; taifa stars ’ .
naibu waziri wa ujenzi , gerson lwenge , amegeuka mbogo baada ya mmoja wa wamiliki wa magari ya mizigo kumwambia amewadanganya wabunge kuwa hafahamu ucheleweshaji wa vibali vya magari ya kunyanyulia vitu vizito .
tuhuma dhidi ya katibu mkuu wa chama cha mapinduzi ( ccm ) , abdulrahman kinana , ( pichani ) kuhusika katika usafirishaji wa pembe za ndovu , zimewalazimisha wabunge kadhaa wa ccm kumsafisha .
kambi rasmi ya upinzani bungeni , imemlipua katibu mkuu wa chama cha mapinduzi ( ccm ) , abdulrahman kinana , ikidai kuwa shehena ya pembe za ndovu zenye uzito wa tani nne kutoka tanzania na kenya zilizokamatwa nchini vietnam mwaka 2009 , zilisafirishwa na kampuni inayomilikiwa na yeye pamoja na mkewe .
mbunge wa jimbo la msalala , ezekiel maige , amesema anakusudia kuikataa bajeti ya wizara ya ardhi , nyumba na maendeleo ya makazi ikiwa haitatenga fedha za kupima viwanja vya wilayani kahama . & ldquo ; nguvu za mayonda hufilia nyangwani . & rdquo ; nyani wawapo kwenye kiini cha msitu au mikoko huwa stadi ila watokapo n-nje karibu na bahari huwa rahisi kushambuliwa .
methali hii hutumiwa kwa mtu au watu wanaotumia vyeo vyao vibaya .
nikihesabu kwa haraka haraka , hii ni mara ya tatu sasa katika kipindi kisichopungua miaka miwili , wabunge wa bunge la jamhuri ya muungano wa tanzania kuikatalia serikali kupitisha bajeti zake zinazowasilishwa bungeni .
umati mkubwa wa wakazi wa jiji la arusha wakiwamo wanachama wa chama cha demokrasia na maendeleo ( chadema ) , jana ulifurika eneo la mahakama ya hakimu mkazi arusha wakati mbunge wa jimbo la arusha , godbless lema ( chadema ) , alipofikishwa mahakamani hapo na kusomewa tuhuma za uchochezi .
wakati serikali ikijikusanya huko na huko ili kuongeza bajeti ya wizara ya maji kwa mwaka wa fedha wa 2013 / 2014 kutoka sh. bilioni 398.4 zilizokuwa zimetengwa awali hadi sh. bilioni 582 .
mbunge wa mtera , livingstone lusinde ( ccm ) maarufu kibajaji , amesema atawaongoza wananchi wa jimbo lake kwenda kuvamia shamba la zabibu na kugawana , iwapo serikali itashindwa kuliendeleza eneo hilo hadi kufikia mwishoni mwa mwaka huu .
wiki iliyopita nilinukuu barua pepe ya mwalimu kuhusu viboko mashuleni , na mimi nikaongezea ya kwangu .
nilipigiwa simu na mwalimu mwenzangu mmoja , maana mwandishi wa habari nawe ni mwalimu wa umma .
kambi rasmi ya upinzani bungeni imeitaka serikali kusitisha mara moja mpango wake wa kuruhusu watu wachache kuagiza mchele kutoka nje ya nchi , ambao haulipiwi ushuru .
kiongozi wa kambi hiyo , freeman mbowe , alisema hayo alipozungumza na waandishi wa habari katika ofisi za bunge na kutangaza uamuzi wa kambi yake wa kuanzisha utaratibu mpya wa kuzungumza na vyombo vya habari kila wiki juu ya mambo yanayojiri bungeni .
mkutano wa 11 wa bunge la bajeti kwa mwaka wa fedha wa 2013 / 2014 unaendelea leo , huku shauku kubwa ya watanzania ikijielekeza zaidi kutaka kujua kama bajeti ya wizara ya maji imeongezewa fedha za kutosha , ili kulipatia ufumbuzi wa uhakika tatizo kubwa la maji nchini , hasa katika maeneo ya vijijini , lililolalamikiwa na wabunge wote na kusababisha kutoiunga mkono .
wabunge wa chama cha mapinduzi ( ccm ) , jana walishambuliana huku waliokuwa mstari wa mbele kuikosoa serikali katika vikao vya bajeti vinavyoendelea mjini dodoma wakituhumiwa kukiua chama na kukipa nguvu chama cha demokrasia na maendeleo ( chadema ) .
wabunge wamempa wakati mgumu waziri wa maji , profesa jummanne maghembe , baada ya kumtuhumu kuwa anajipendelea kutokana na kupeleka sh. bilioni 32 katika miradi ya maji kwenye wilaya ya mwanga anayotoka huku fedha za uchangia wa miradi ya maji katika vijiji 10 kwa kila halmashauri nchini ikitengewa sh .
bunge limeingilia kati kuunusuru mfuko wa pensheni kwa watumishi wa serikali ( pspf ) , ambao umeelezwa kwamba umefilisika huku serikali ikikiri kuwa chanzo cha hali hiyo , na kuomba radhi .
serikali imepinga hoja ya mbunge wa moshi vijijini ( ccm ) , dk .
cyril chami , kuhusu kasi ya maendeleo katika jimbo la hai linalowakilishwa na freeman mbowe ( chadema ) .
jopo la majaji watatu wa mahakama ya rufaa ya tanzania wanatarajia kuanza kusikiliza rufaa ya aliyekuwa mbunge wa igunga ( ccm ) , dk .
dalaly kafumu , aliyevuliwa ubunge na mahamaa kuu kanda ya tabora .
mbunge wa kisesa , luhaga mpina ( ccm ) , amekabidhi uthibitisho wa takwimu zinazoonyesha kuwa deni la taifa linaongezeka kwa sababu matumizi ya serikali yanazidi mapato ya ndani .
tanzania imesafirisha jumla ya tani 371,317 za samaki na mazao ya uvuvi nje ya nchini .
naibu waziri wa maendeleo ya mifugo na uvuvi , benedict ole nangoro , alisema hayo alipokuwa akijibu swali la mbunge wa wawi , hamad rashid mohamed ( cuf ) .
wabunge watano wa chama cha demokrasia na maendeleo ( chadema ) waliofukuzwa bungeni wiki iliyopita na kupewa adhabu ya siku tano ya kutohudhuria vikao vya bunge la bajeti , wameanza kukusanya orodha ya wananchi katika mikoa minne , wakiomba ridhaa yao kuunga mkono hoja binafsi itakayowasilishwa bungeni baada ya aprili 30 , mwaka huu .
mbunge wa kawe ( chadema ) , halima mdee , ameshangazwa na baraza la mawaziri kwa kushindwa kumshauri rais jakaya kikwete , ambaye anahofiwa kudanganywa kuiruhusu kampuni ya kimarekani ya mosanto inayozalisha mbegu za vyakula zinazosababisha watoto kuzaliwa taahira .
mbunge wa mwibara ( ccm ) , kangi lugola , jana alilazimika kuomba mwongozo wa spika kutokana na baadhi ya mawaziri na naibu mawaziri , ' kukacha ' mjadala wa bajeti ya wizara ya kilimo , chakula na ushirika ya mwaka 2013 / 2014 .
kuna methali isemayo : & ldquo ; mchimba kisima huingia mwenyewe . & rdquo ; maana yake mtu anayemchimbia mwenziye shimo kwa dhamira mbaya huishia kuingia mwenyewe .
methali hii hutumiwa kumshauri mtu anayekusudia kumfanyia ubaya mwenzake kuwa huenda ubaya huo ukamrudia yeye .
wabunge wanne kati ya sita wa chama cha demokrasia na maendeleo ( chadema ) ambao wiki iliyopita walifukuzwa bungeni kwa utovu wa nidhamu , wamesema watanzabia watarajie kutokea mwa mambo mamkuwa ikiwa kiti cha spika kitaendelea kuwabeba wabunge wa chama cha mapinduzi ( ccm ) na kuwanandamiza wa upinzani .
serikali imetangaza neema kwa wakulima ikisema katika msimu wa mwaka wa fedha wa 2013 / 14 , kupitia vikundi na vyama vya ushirika , watapata mikopo ya muda mfupi na yenye riba nafuu kwa ajili ya kununulia pembejeo .
uchaguzi mdogo katika jimbo la chambani , pemba , unatarajia kufanyika juni 16 , mwaka huu .
uchaguzi huo unafanyika kufuatia kifo cha aliyekuwa mbunge wa jimbo hilo kupitia chama cha wananchi ( cuf ) , salum hemed hamis , kufariki dunia machi 28 , mwaka huu .
pata kibonzo chako kila siku toka kwa kabwela , the flexibles na dogo & ldquo ; the only available job for people of my age who didn ’ t go to school is to collect plastic bottles in the streets and sell them , & rdquo ; she said .
silaa condemns ilala council for contravening presidential directives na devota mwachang 'a he said the move was not only contrary to ilala ward councillors ’ resolutions , but also to president jakaya kikwete ’ s order .
a physical or electronic signature of a person authorized to act on behalf of the owner of an exclusive right that is allegedly infringed ; identification of the material that is claimed to be infringing or to be the subject of infringing activity and that is to be removed or access to which is to be disabled , and information reasonably sufficient to permit us to locate the material ; a statement that you have a good faith belief that use of the material in the manner complained of is not authorized by the copyright owner , its agent or the law ; and a statement that the information in the notification is accurate , and under penalty of perjury , that you are authorized to act on behalf of the owner of an exclusive right that is allegedly infringed .
if you are seeking permission to use our content , do not contact us at this address .
instead , please see our reprint and reuse policy or visit www.djreprints.com.
so far on capitol hill , no end in sight over shutdown so far on capitol hill , no end in sight to shutdown support all around on back pay for furloughed federal workers the eu has also raised concern on the restrictions on publication of news on their websites .
according to a statement , press freedom and freedom of expression are fundamental rights of the people which call for circumspection and proportionality in the application of the laws that govern the media .
the said : & ldquo ; it is the duty of the media to work within the law and to make every effort to adopt and adhere to professional standards . & rdquo ; the press has a key role to play in informing society and in promoting values and rights .
the role of the press is also important to continue deepening the democratization process , reads part of the statement . & ldquo ; i am informed that the new information bill is already on the table and that in the process of discussing the issue of the repeal of the newspaper act of 1976 some changes might be amended , & rdquo ; he said .
he said he has decided to take a normal way to present the bill and avoid a long procedure so as to pave the way for information stakeholders to participate effectively in the currently constitutional review process .
in view of this , he said he has presented the bill so that it is printed in the government gazette in accordance with the parliamentary procedures and rules so that it might be read for the first time and then be passed over to the stakeholders for discussion for its review and then later on to be read in parliament .
usplabs issued a statement regarding oxyelite pro regarding the cases : widespread _ panic : " she was put into a medically induced coma and required at this point the fda said it did not force usp labs to recall the oxyelite pro product .
that ´ s why i always say the best way to loose weight is eating the half , take long walks , try to do some excercises instead of sitting in front of the tv or the computer .
apologetics " always be prepared to make a defense to any one who calls you to account for the hope that is in you , yet do it with gentleness and reverence ; and keep your conscience clear , so that , when you are abused , those who revile your good behavior in christ may be put to shame . " ( 1 peter 3 : 15-16 ) his right ear cut off and his penis and testicles shoved into a gourd .
he was later moved to the central prison but the damage has their crime was to be members of msd , the movement for the house of a frodebu leader killing his 7-year-old son and leaving him gravely later , in the far east of the country , in the small town of the result was the death of four and the hospitalisation of member of a political party that is not the one that is in power is a crime and the third option is to return to the violence and permanent this is not a choice that the opposition , or any citizen turned a blind eye to all these manoeuvrings and abuses of human rights and of the party in power to stop arresting , torturing and assassinating the political boys ' club and no one was going to rock the boat in this period of multiple and the results of the elections known before the populace even goes to the polls .
the eac has chosen to support the perpetrators of abuse and not the we realise that if democracy is to be saved , it is for us and courageous in burundi .
we cannot return to the dictatorships that have to be an example to the region .
we need to show how political pluralism can what is the value of the east african community if its if we are serious about democracy in africa we need to stop the naiveté of the foreign ministers in the region was is he said , " the eac will insist on the democratisation of all member states to we need to hold our leaders accountable so that all can will pay it for them .
nor will they obtain it on credit . "
tmz first reported the existence of the documents on thursday .
centerville resident bernadette coutain plair recently returned from trinidad and tobago , where she spoke at the premiers of a documentary on her efforts to reintroduce the blue and gold macaw to her native trinidad . ( 10 / 9 / 2013 12 : 00 : 00 am ) pre-registration is appreciated but walk-in ’ s are always welcome.sponsored by the diocese of abilene ’ cheerleader ’ glenn dromgoole is 2013 abilene citizen of the year fri oct 11 , 2013 12 : 27 am edt ’ my name is jim and i ’ m a recovering politician ’ : foundation chief demint speaks at chamber banquet fri oct 11 , 2013 12 : 27 am edt two of three big country congressmen won ’ t take pay during government shutdown thu oct 10 , 2013 10 : 27 pm edt city of abilene ’ s calculation of october sales tax rebate is close to state ’ s numbers thu oct 10 , 2013 10 : 27 pm edt sunland inc. shuts its doors thu oct 10 , 2013 8 : 27 pm edt san benito ready for market day fri oct 11 , 2013 12 : 27 am edt motorcyclist dies of crash injuries fri oct 11 , 2013 12 : 27 am edt borderfest set for saturday thu oct 10 , 2013 4 : 27 pm edt police arrest man with axe wed oct 9 , 2013 2 : 27 pm edt accused cat hoarder sentenced to probation fri oct 11 , 2013 12 : 27 am edt charges in gilmer shooting upgraded fri oct 11 , 2013 06 : 27 am edt fired lisd bus driver named fri oct 11 , 2013 06 : 27 am edt burley literacy night instills love of reading in k-2nd graders fri oct 11 , 2013 02 : 27 am edt feds will let states pay to reopen national parks fri oct 11 , 2013 06 : 27 am edt wednesday at the piney woods fair fri oct 11 , 2013 12 : 27 am edt commissioners nominate milstead to serve on appraisal board thu oct 10 , 2013 02 : 27 am edt 5 indicted in waco hilton atm theft wed oct 9 , 2013 4 : 27 pm edt robinsons road reconstruction off to strong start mon oct 7 , 2013 02 : 27 am edt envoy says guatemala to complete all pending child adoptions by us couples by end of year ( 9 / 25 / 2013 9 : 23 : 02 pm ) ( new york ) — a defiant 16-year-old pakistani girl whose advocacy for education made her the target of a taliban assassination attempt a year and a day ago told an audience in new york on thursday she one day hopes to become her country ’ s prime minister .
jk , kagame : let bygones be bygones na the guardian reporter the president sounded satisfaction on steps taken by the government in the wake of concerns he raised in his end of july speech concerning the spate of armed robberies and illegal immigration .
he said that his visit to the united states led to acceptance of a request for 2.4 million textbooks for science and math , to enable each secondary school student to have a book of his or her own in the subjects .
september 18 , 2013 i trust our fellow caricom brethren have maintained a watchful eye on the ongoing saga involving the government of belize ’ s implausible call for belizeans to vote , via referendum , on whether or not to take guatemala ’ s unfounded claim on our sovereign territory to the international court of justice ( icj ) .
september 9 , 2013 will she be like margaret thatcher ?
or as charismatic as benazir or as bold as portia simpson or trinidad ’ s kamla persad bissesar will it be she who stood up to oceana endorsed by mr machiavelli when he dubbed her persona non grata that she was destined to be belize ’ s first female ...
commentary : dugu for tourism is an insult to garinagu , but its potency could be useful elsewhere commentary : the return of justice to the people of dangriga town and the south commentary : a questionable future for the garifuna people in the south of belize commentary : it is not only about voting but all rights he called the new officials ’ puppets ’ who are being prepared to rig the forthcoming 2015 general elections .
idb approves up to $ 100 million for poverty alleviation in dominican republic bovada gives you a chance to win a seat at this year 's sizzling hot punta cana poker classic in dominican republic uk aid for trade helps pave the way for epa implementation weather gang | we bake and sweat a bit the next few days while we await a potential rainmaker .
warm and a bit muggy for playing chicago at rfk some clouds and a breeze won ’ t spoil our comfortable weather it is doubly ironical and unsettling that the misery due to the scarcity of a food item they still love and cherish is in part a consequence of the mushrooming of businesses out to feed an export market .
but one can only imagine the agony and bitterness of & ldquo ; ordinary & rdquo ; households in , say , villages dotting the shorelines of our lakes or bordering our rivers who used to get highly regarded fish such as tilapia , ningu and mbofu almost effortlessly but now make do with & ldquo ; inferior & rdquo ; species including sardines , furu and mudfish .
one may be tempted to downplay or brush off all this as part of what ought to be expected as globalisation digs in or as a demonstration of what usually happens in the course of industrialisation and when market forces hold sway .
man pleads not guilty to 50-plus sex crimes thu oct 10 , 2013 2 : 14 pm edt dunmor man enters not guilty plea to child sex crimes wed oct 9 , 2013 6 : 14 pm edt n.ky. shooting victim in ’ high spirits ’ tue aug 20 , 2013 12 : 14 am edt special session for redistricting in ky . tue aug 20 , 2013 12 : 14 am edt classes begin at nku with new changes tue aug 20 , 2013 12 : 14 am edt bailey dominates in 9-1 win over brewers mon aug 19 , 2013 02 : 14 am edt benefits in the works for hockensmith family fri oct 11 , 2013 04 : 14 am edt popular safety city and dare programs on the city ’ s chopping block wed jun 20 , 2012 02 : 14 am edt man admits beating his girlfriend ’ s grandmother to death wed jun 20 , 2012 02 : 14 am edt teen convicted in friend ’ s slaying to continue treatment fri oct 7 , 2011 10 : 14 am edt 2,300 in lexington for state ffa convention , and they ’ re not all farmers fri oct 7 , 2011 10 : 14 am edt car fire in jessamine co .
possible arson fri oct 11 , 2013 06 : 14 am edt vp debate memorabilia to be auctioned off to benefit murder victim ’ s fund fri oct 11 , 2013 12 : 14 am edt feds will let states pay to reopen national parks thu oct 10 , 2013 10 : 14 pm edt wis .
company holds annual ’ running of the roaches ’ thu oct 10 , 2013 10 : 14 pm edt pittsfield : bcc honors convocation set oct .
17 thu oct 10 , 2013 4 : 28 pm edt pittsfield : ’ christmas carol ’ audition call for children thu oct 10 , 2013 2 : 28 pm edt us , canada face off in women ’ s hockey before sochi thu oct 10 , 2013 6 : 28 pm edt proud patriots defense bracing for brees thu oct 10 , 2013 4 : 28 pm edt vt police : burglaries may be linked thu oct 10 , 2013 12 : 28 pm edt putney pharmacy open for business thu oct 10 , 2013 10 : 28 am edt community discussion on homelessness thu oct 10 , 2013 04 : 28 am edt florida man accused of assaulting guilford man thu oct 10 , 2013 04 : 28 am edt geico agrees to pay in borneman case thu oct 10 , 2013 6 : 28 pm edt what ’ s next for ’ calendar 2.0 ’ ?
thu oct 10 , 2013 6 : 28 pm edt armed robbery at st. johnsbury drugstore fri oct 11 , 2013 04 : 28 am edt n.y. man accused of raping 12-year-old girl fri oct 11 , 2013 12 : 28 am edt what forced rutland cop off the job ?
internal report provides answers thu oct 10 , 2013 8 : 28 pm edt new fahc maternity unit wins approval thu oct 10 , 2013 8 : 28 pm edt 4 americans meet snowden to give him an award fri oct 11 , 2013 04 : 28 am edt shumlin to maine gov . : push to reopen us gov ’ t thu oct 10 , 2013 8 : 28 pm edt rescuers find lost hiker thu oct 10 , 2013 12 : 28 am edt shopping for home and design in one of washington ’ s close-in shopping favorites .
knowing the style of a home can be helpful for buying , selling , remodeling or decorating .
fun and functional furniture and accessories for a welcoming entry .
u.s. botanic garden horticulturist adam pyle explains the benefits of potted herbs and demonstrates how to pot dry and moist herb gardens .
how to get musty odor out of an old dresser old cellphones and computers die , but they don ’ t fade away .
find out how to dispose of them responsibly .
a new movie looks at the lively life of healthy soil , and humans wouldn ’ t know it from a hole in the ground .
an arlington resident wants to give her daughter her own room but is worried a small playroom won ’ t accommodate her .
moms are exhausted , but would we want it any other way ?
a new study shows moms are more tired than dads .
would we change it if we could ?
melissa d ’ arabian shares her best ideas for pinching pennies on the family grocery budget .
how can we help new mothers ?
screen for postpartum depression .
miriam carey may have had postpartum depression .
so do at least 14 percent of new moms .
we need to help .
parenting coach meghan leahy on effective discipline for teens and tweens is it time to put timeouts in the naughty chair ?
family almanac | but you can draw a line in the sand with overbearing in-laws .
momspeak | harvard survey finds 42 percent of kids cheated on homework .
what ’ s the big deal ?
family almanac | how to be there for a sister who ’ s slipping — and for her husband .
family almanac | a mother is heartbroken after her 25-year-old daughter shuts her out .
momspeak | this school year , resolve to be a less meddlesome parent .
get the scoop on which movies are good for kids .
family almanac | a reader asks , are we spoiling our teens and raising a generation that is responsibility-phobic ?
it may be time to rethink the number of naps a baby gets tanzania gets hints on easing dar traffic jams na waryoba yankami for his part , ejec general manager in tanzania , tatsumi tokunaga said his company is planning on cooperating with local engineering consultants so as to attract more investors in the country .
underlining the increasing role of the luxembourg financial center in the internationalization of the chinese renminbi ( rmb ) , luxembourg 's finance minister luc frieden announced the launch of a new web portal dedicated to the development of activities linked to the currency in luxembourg . ( 9 / 20 / 2013 10 : 47 : 10 am ) envía aquí tus nominaciones para " héroes de mi barrio " , iniciativa de telemundo washington en reconocimiento de quienes trabajan para mejorar nuestra ...
deliciosa bebida de frambuesa , lechuga asada y otras ideas originales de la chef ...
lleva a tu hogar el sabor de la cocina mexicana , un símbolo de tradición que nos ...
una dieta que propone regresar a los orígenes y alimentarse como lo hacían nuest ...
¿ beber agua adelgaza ?
¿ cuántos litros debo tomar al día ?
¿ con sodio o sin sodio ? ...
la conductora de los premios billboard de la música mexicana aylín m ...
octubre es el mes de concientización del cáncer del seno méxico es una tierra de mujeres hermosas , ¿ cuál es tu favorita ?
descubre la belleza del otoño en estados unidos visitando alguno de ...
latinas que son orgullo y ejemplo a seguir en diferentes ámbitos : ac ...
an official of the dar es salaam based comprehensive community based rehabilitation in tanzania ( ccbrt ) was left perplexed one day as he entered a shop at karikaooo , dar es salaam .
from nowhere a woman gave her him a 200 / - coin apparently as alms to a ’ poor person .
limited access to legal aid services has been singled out as a key factor contributing to gross violations of women ’ s and girls ’ rights in many parts of tanzania .
on the slopes of udzungwa mountains , some 400 km south-west of dar es salaam in the heart of the kilombero valley lies a 10,000 hectare sugarcane plantation .
the kilombero valley is the cradle of sugarcane farming in the united republic of tanzania and the home of tanzania ’ s largest sugarcane estate – kilombero .
who would have thought that a less fortunate woman who sells doughnuts in the streets of mbagala , kijichi would one day own her own bajaj in the city of dar es salaam ?
current eac leadership crisis is this danger to the organization 's survival ?
technically , both were members of the authority , but operationally mwalimu would not sit at a table with iddi amin ( ’ simtaki muuaji huyu ’ ) .
for residents of matongo , nyangoto , kerende , kewanja and nyakunguru villages in tarime district , august is a dry month as evidenced by the blue skies that are not tainted by a white cloud even as early as ten o ’ clock in the morning .
mount kilimanjaro got its name from the swahili words kilima njaro meaning & ldquo ; shining mountain & rdquo ; , as revealed on its famous ice cap at the top .
the chinese characters boldly painted on a supermarket poster in tanzania ’ s commercial capital dar es salaam say a lot about the growing influence of china on this east african nation .
nit all out in educating local experts but challenges abound tycoons ’ children are not like those of common people .
for while some of the ordinary tanzanians ’ children are labouring in sisal fields or stealing their parents ’ fowls , the children of tycoons are employed in different sectors , including the central government .
a staggering youth entered a commutter bus recently in dar es salaam , his breath carrying the reek of alcohol .
ask zainab omar of misozwe village in muheza district why she takes part in conserving the village forests of mlinga , manga and kwizee and she will quickly give you several reasons – to get firewood , to sustain flows of water in streams around the village and to keep the rainy seasons stable .
she was in a big hurry and at times could run whenever she could do it .
shivji 's two-state solution : that 's the disease which it purports to cure the above statement was uttered by one retired female officer of the ministry of education and vocational training ( moevt ) in 2012 .
her name is mrs urassa aka mama meta .
she mentioned those words when we met at professor isaria kimambo ’ s residence in makongo juu , kinondoni district .
for robi chacha ( not her name ) , a mother of four who lives in matongo village of tarime district in mara region , tuesday and fridays are the best days of the week for the family especially between july and october .
rehema mbaruku ( 45 ) is one of the happiest women in foroforo village located 48 kilometres from korogwe district headquarters in tanga region .
thousands of youths enter the job market every year .
and of these , very few are likely to get employment .
so where do the rest go ?
self-employment is said to be an alternative to unemployment as it offers a steady income .
steve biko , mizengo pinda and problematics of an ' insurrectionist democracy ' prime minister mizengo pinda has lately come up for a pillorying following his comments in the august chamber of parliament that the state was fatigued with applying the flywhisk to trouble-prone gatherings of the leading opposition party , issuing a clarion call : the time for beating is now .
silt and water hyacinth are becoming a threat to mabayani dam , the main source of water for tanga city residents and those in the peripherals .
the two enemies are caused by human activities in the amani nature reserve ( anr ) located in the east usambara mountains .
citrix stock skids 12 % on reduced outlook fri oct 11 , 2013 06 : 10 am edt boynton cra selects new lawyers thu oct 10 , 2013 04 : 10 am edt from sea floor to south florida , artifacts of the titanic to go on display wed oct 9 , 2013 8 : 10 pm edt snag a job at sawgrass fair thu oct 10 , 2013 6 : 10 pm edt beasley ’ s burst helps heat to preseason win over pistons fri oct 11 , 2013 12 : 10 am edt woman guilty in dui death thu oct 10 , 2013 10 : 10 pm edt fla. says it won ’ t pay to reopen national parks thu oct 10 , 2013 8 : 10 pm edt fla : state won ’ t use its money on federal programs thu oct 10 , 2013 8 : 10 pm edt nepotism claims made at parks dept thu oct 10 , 2013 8 : 10 pm edt investigator didn ’ t meet kids : bso thu oct 10 , 2013 8 : 10 pm edt sentencing of gerard lopes postponed to next week thu oct 10 , 2013 6 : 10 pm edt suspect in sobe rape found in california thu oct 10 , 2013 6 : 10 pm edt fla : state won ’ t use its money on federal programs fri oct 11 , 2013 04 : 10 am edt fla. says it won ’ t pay to reopen national parks fri oct 11 , 2013 04 : 10 am edt man to be retried in baby ’ s death fri oct 11 , 2013 04 : 10 am edt fla .
gop raises $ 5.1m to dems ’ $ 1.4m in 3q thu oct 10 , 2013 10 : 10 pm edt school children pray for malala ’ s nobel win fri oct 11 , 2013 06 : 10 am edt cbs 12 gearing up for making strides against breast cancer events thu oct 10 , 2013 8 : 10 pm edt new mobile app lets you make cardless atm cash withdrawls thu oct 10 , 2013 8 : 10 pm edt prof mgonda who is also the tanzania ’ s technical committee chairperson said the aim is to satisfy consumers in the east african community .
smes are mostly involved in the processing of soaps and detergents and these products are available in the market .
viet nam + 3 others cinq morts après le passage du typhon wutip qui a ravagé le vietnam hanoï , 1 octobre 2013 ( afp ) - le typhon wutip , qui a ravagé le centre du vietnam , a fait au moins cinq morts et des dizaines de disparus en mer de chine méridionale .
wutip , qui a été rétrogradé mardi matin en dépression tropicale en se dirigeant vers le laos , a touché terre lundi en fin de journée sur la côte centrale du vietnam , inondant les routes , endommageant digues et lignes électriques .
rdc : & bdquo ; près de 90 & percnt des combattants du m23 sont des militaires rwandais « affirme un déserteur .
rdc : & bdquo ; près de 90 & percnt des combattants du m23 sont des militaires & bdquo ; pas loin de quatre vingt-dix pour cent ( 90 & percnt ) des combattants de la rébellion m23 qui se bat à l ’ est de la république démocratique du congo ( rdc ) , sont des militaires de l ’ armée rwandaise « , a affirmé à la bbc un des quatre rwandais recrutés et forcés de rejoindre les rangs des rebelles du m23 .
les ces quatre individus ont déclaré avoir été recrutés de force au rwanda par prêter main forte aux rebelles du m23 qui sévissent à l ’ est de la rdc depuis des mois.après s ’ être échappés , ils ont demandél ’ asile en ouganda , d ’ où ils ont livré leur témoignage à la bbcce mardi le 31 juillet .
un des déserteurs affirme que le mouvement m23 est constitué à 90 & percnt de militaires de l ’ armée rwandaise .
un autre transfuge quisuivaitdes études de médecine au rwanda lors de son recrutement forcé pour le compte du m23 , a indiqué à la bbc , qu ’ il a soigné plus de 300 combattants du m23 blessés au les témoignages de ces déserteurs corroborent le contenu du rapport de humanrights watch ( hrw ) publié le 22juillet dernier.dans ce rapport d ’ autres combattants , recrutés de force au rwanda et qui ont réussi à s ’ échapper , ont combattre de l ’ autre coté de la frontière rwandaise.dans ce rapport , ces combattants ont également rapporté que la rébellion m23 est constituée en grande partie de militaires de l ’ armée rwandaise et de combattants recrutés de force au ce n ’ est pas la première fois que des recrues rwandaises pour le compte du m23 demandent asile en ouganda .
le 20 juin dernier , 16 étudiants rwandais ( 14 hommes et deux femmes ) y avaient encore demandé l ’ asile en déclarant être victimes du harcèlement des autorités de leur pays pour avoir refusé de se joindre auxrebelles du m23.deux de ces étudiants en fuite ont affirmé qu ’ ils avaient refusé de participer au programme parce que leurs amis qui y sont allés le rwanda continue de nier son soutien au m23 malgré l ’ accumulation des le porte parole de l ’ armée rwandaise , joseph nzabamwita , a déclaré à la bbc topics in the newsu.s.president barack obamanflnew yorkjan brewerwall streetlos angelesparadise valleymaricopa countysun devils browse categoriesbrandscultureevents and awardshealth and wellnesslegislation and actsnatural and physical sciencesorganizationspeopleplaces , geographyreligion and beliefs the following is an extract of a case from the international commission of jurists in geneva : hernandez was dismissed as manager of the dr giraldi home following her disclosure of a string of abuses alleged by members of her staff the pirate of bgtw – which has been the instigator of the present conflict which the spanish govt is using for its political advantage and evidently is a symbiotic relationship ....
hmgog restates it express goodwill and disposition to enter “ constructive and collaborative dialogue ” with spain in the immediate future on trilateral or “ ad hoc ” terms .
the aim of the conference is to highlight the different areas of work in which the uk overseas territories and crown dependencies are involved in relation to gis and its application in environmental management , particularly in the field of marine resources was carracao not the same individual who advised the previous administration not to make a big fuss over her hrh the princess royal visit ?
far be it for me to advise any politician as to their choice of friends but ... ...
new jobless numbers are a bit of a mixed bag for president obama and his re-election bid .
by catherine reagor and ronald j. hansen , the republic | azcentral. com © 2012 usa today , a division of gannett co .
inc .
