home | about | search | site map | blog ( an rma is not required but helps expedite things for you ) we will send you a ups return shipping label ( by email ) to affix to the package dropthe package at any ups location , see www.ups.com ( be sure to include a copy of your receipt and instructions for refund or exchange ) - if you don 't want to use our prepaid label , or you live outside the us you can mail the products back with the carrier of your choice does it cost anything to return an item for a refund ?
what if i want to use usps or another carrier ? - we try to process refunds on the same business day we receive the item ( s ) , but it might take a few days to appear in your account what if i used a freight forwarding service to ship my items internationally ?
we treat our customers with care and respect , the same way we want to be treated .
we stand behind the products we sell 100 % . if for any reason you are not satisfied with your purchase simply return it for a full refund her majesty the queen celebrates the 60th anniversary of her coronationthis year - and she is working as hard as ever ! issues and politics of the race to county hall for 2013 and lawyers to overthrow centuries of tradition in order to curtail at km groupwe ’ re proud to pay tribute to the brave men looking for something to do at the weekend ?
had a big clear-out at home ?
car boot sale season is back !
click here to find your local event ...
play today 's quiz below to see if you can top the leader-board and return tomorrow for a new set of questions !
register your result and you could win £ 250 !
medway big quiz , 15 / 11 / 2013 .
a great evening of quizzing and fundraising ...
post an ad in our publications and onto the website , or search what is currently on offer in kent ...
btw , how much does that $ 17 trillion work out to per corporation ? ? ?
that 's where the money is " trickling up " to ...
not down to the citizens , as you frauds have claimed for decades !
i am tired of talk of corporations .
corporations represent all of us as we are shareholders .
old people depend on dividends .
the tea party republicans are not patriots : they are traitors and terrorists .
their agenda seems to be to screw up government so badly , make it so dysfunctional , that it paves the way for people to accept an open plutocracy ... and they seem to be winning .
appear intended ( i ) to intimidate or coerce a civilian population ; ( ii ) to influence the policy of a government by intimidation or coercion ; or ( iii ) to affect the conduct of a government by mass destruction , assassination. or kidnapping ; and the sequester could have been on the table right now except for obama 's " i 'm not going to negotiate " jive . that 's not a stance he can take in the next round , if he really wants to make the sequester go away .
there hasn 't been a hint of what would make the sequester go away so far that is acceptable to the democrats .
i wouldn 't expect it a week or so of negotiations .
evey one of these " wins " is a complete disaster for the tebaggers . as is this sudden embrace of post-modern " journalism " by the right wing media .
you also learn in econ 102 that when the velocity ( number of times a dollar is spent per year ) of money is low you have to create more money to maintain the gdp and avert a recession .
though i do agree with all of the four reasons of why our economy was hurt by this , i don 't agree that the tea party was helped . i believe that we won 't go through the protracted delay in january as we just did and i also believe that many americans are now aware of how dysfunctional the tea party members in congress are and that in 2014 a good number of them will be voted out . part of this hope is in the results of the senate race between the democrat and the tea party candidate in connecticut .
the tea party refuses to raise revenues of any kind to pay for our debts and therefore are being disingenuous about wanting to see the federal deficit cut .
between the antarctic circumpolar trough and the continent , a narrow ring of easterly winds exists .
cold winds flowing off the continent are diverted to the west as a result of the coriolis effect .
conditions here are often calmer and clearer than in the antarctic circumpolar trough .
the drake passage is the stretch of water between the most southerly tip of south america and the most northerly tip of the antarctic peninsula .
it has been described as the roughest stretch of water in the world .
it is the place where not only are there gale force winds that blow most of the time , but also where the " circumpolar current " is squeezed through its narrowest gap .
" antarctica is the coldest , highest , windiest , driest , and iciest continent on earth " using a mobile device ?
go to m.huffingtonpost.com for huffpost mobile .
if you have something to say ...
say it on the huffington post holder says the obvious -- the drug war is a war on minorities yet another study proves the war on drugs is failing marijuana legalization in california : gavin newsom to head aclu panel a week ’ s worth of stateline 's original reporting and analysis of key state issues .
delivered on mondays .
are you interested in customizing a range of email alerts using advanced tools ?
if so , we suggest you use the inboxrobot .
did you know there are 17 species of penguins in antarctica ?
homelatest newscosta blanca newscosta levante newscosta almeria newscosta del sol newsspanish national newsbritish scenecork talkinside spainmed tv guideliving in spainyellow pagesphoto gallery where in the story does it say he ' butchered ' her , & # 8230 ; please note : prices are for 4 weeks .
you can design your own advert or we can design it for you .
send your orders by e-mail to pcs.production.1.20130918.1036 ( pewsuwvmwapp02 ) country music legend mel tillis at the capitol civic centre in manitowoc | htrnews.com | manitowoc man-news | htr media you will be redirected to the page you want to view inseconds .
contact ussubscribecustomer servicesadvertise with htr mediacareers with gannettbusiness opportunity-delivery routesour commitmentmanage my subscriptionactivate your subscriptionabout us wisconsin badgersvarsitywisconsin outdoor funclubhouse livegridiron insiderpackersgameday live ! submit a sports photo self-driving cars of the future are sort of here now one of my favorite experiences of autumn is to witness the blooming of native witch hazel in the ... - 4 : 33 pm shingle recycling offers new use for tons of roofing waste are you currently a subscriber ? set up your digital access now .
log inare you currently a subscriber ?
set up your digital access now .
create an account or if you have a digital profile log in .
become a subscriber today to continue enjoying all of the products htr media has to offer or you can download any of the following supported modern browsers : newsobituariesschoolsnationalrecordsdataminespecial sectionsarchiveopinionsubmit a lettersportswisconsin badgersvarsitywisconsin outdoor funclubhouse livegridiron insiderpackersgameday live ! submit a sports photovideosvideo librarybusinessliving here 2012 / 2013photosvideophoto galleriesorder photo reprintsshare photoslife & stylemilestonesmy cozi calendarday trip videos2013 menu guidemovieshealthentertainment2013 menu guidemy cozi calendarcalendar events helpcontact ussubscribecustomer servicesadvertise with htr mediacareers with gannettbusiness opportunity-delivery routesour commitmentmanage my subscriptionactivate your subscriptionabout us this site uses cookies .
by continuing to browse the site you are agreeing to our use of cookies .
review our cookies information for more detailsthis site uses cookies .
by continuing to browse the site you are agreeing to our use of cookies .
review our cookies information for more detailsthis site uses cookies .
by continuing to browse the site you are agreeing to our use of cookies .
review our cookies information for more detailsthis site uses cookies .
by continuing to browse the site you are agreeing to our use of cookies .
review our cookies information for more detailsthis site uses cookies .
by continuing to browse the site you are agreeing to our use of cookies .
review our cookies information for more detailsthis site uses cookies .
by continuing to browse the site you are agreeing to our use of cookies .
review our cookies information for more detailsthis site uses cookies .
by continuing to browse the site you are agreeing to our use of cookies .
review our cookies information for more detailsthis site uses cookies .
by continuing to browse the site you are agreeing to our use of cookies .
review our cookies information for more details randy dishmon of oppenheimer is beating the index by looking past p / e. the road less traveled has led him to monsanto , bank of america , and more .
if your kid needs remedial help and you all need to go on vacation , taking a tutor on the road might be the best solution .
latam airlines got off to a bumpy start after it was formed by a merger last year .
but now it looks to be working out the problems .
why the stock could jump 20 % or more .
i have often wondered in the past few weeks why the establishment press has been so pro yellen and anti summers .
my suspicion is confirmed .
yellen is the driving force behind qe forever and summers is the skeptic .
on was continuation of bond buying the yellen fed 's first decision ?
at navy yard , the ‘ cube farm ’ had settled into its reassuring monday routine .
then , a jolt .
state commissioners ask epa for stricter vehicle and fuel standards saturday morning & the stalls are going up for the bangsaen bikeweek event from 2.30 pm many bikes rolled in so keep clicking on our pages to see it as it unfolded hey mc riders in the meantime if youre into buying one of our limited print edition sturgis by the way these pages are dedicated to all the foreign and thai mc clubs in thailand where one can " ride hard & live life to its fullest " if you are an mc in thailand send your banner & link to us .
more [ bang saen bike week page 3 ] more [ bang saen harleys for sale ] dec 6-7th 2008 chiangmai north comets bike week [ see pics ] december 13th formulate bike party sat chiangmai [ see pics ] vfrs & cbrs for parts ] [ new honda 125 waves , sonics ] [ new cbr honda 150cc ] [ honda bikes ] [ new cbr 2004 150cc ] [ thai & car t shirts ] [ kids mini racing bikes ] [ your own bike ] [ honda nsr 150cc ] [ vfr bikes ex china ] [ export crates ] [ new yamaha vehicles to thailand ] [ freight forwarding ] [ container cost ] [ sea freight ] [ air freight ] [ airlines in thailand ] [ back to exporters list ] [ container cost ] [ shipping to usa ] [ shipping personal items ] [ shipping cars ] [ shipping agent ] [ buddha images & food ] [ tariffs ] [ letter of credit ] [ fine arts license ] post co ltd by way of contract .
all infringements will be an infringement prime minister mizengo pinda made the statement yesterday in china where he is on a nine day visit .
pinda is also scheduled to meet a tobacco firm ’ s board on the same day and later in the evening , the prime minister will convene and dine with tanzanians living in beijing. code : pattaya ( 038 ) ; chiangmai ( 053 ) ; bangkok ( 02 ) .
when faxing do not use the view the ' kings of the north ' in the polar bear capital of the world by day and enjoy the beautiful northern lights by night .
view the ' kings of the north ' in the polar bear capital of the world by day and enjoy the beautiful northern lights by night.save $ 1,013 per person .
encounter the king of the arctic — the polar bear — in its natural habitat , as you follow in the wake of viking explorers from the comfort of a luxury expedition vessel.receive free airfare ( value up to $ 1,700 per person ) .
encounter the king of the arctic — the polar bear — in its natural habitat , as you follow in the wake of viking explorers from the comfort of a luxury expedition vessel .
voyage on a luxury expedition cruise through the rugged coastal regions of greenland marveling at majestic icebergs and the glacier of disko bay.save up to $ 2,540 per person .
us tsa official to present at state of the tourism industry conference in martinique snorkeling adventure at the end of the world - the bimini vortex commentary : one scapegoat does not fix liat or caribbean airlines no comments on this topic yet .
be the first one to submit a comment. provide .
if the address is not valid or you don 't click on the validation caricom desk to be established in st kitts-nevis to secure the rights of immigrants oecs spokespersons to learn to communicate key messages at seminar in grenada montserrat presents on use of ict in disaster management at un eclac workshop letter : input on grenada 's national debt and the way out to sustainability each lesson is meant to show how color can be used on a map to illustrate the vitol trading giant ’ s acquisition of a stake of slightly over 9 % at a cost of cad 10 million in cic energy at the end of march looks likely to give the company the push it needs . ( ... )
sasol had to ditch its plan to explore for shale gas in south africa but has launched itself into exploring for coal gas in botswana . ( ... )
the former general manager of de beers in congo-k is joining the board of tsodilo ( ... )
morocco ’ s brand new energy and mines minister , fouad douiri , is one of the rare ( ... )
the businessman abdourahman boreh is in court in dubai , at the request of the djibouti authorities . ( ... )
the franco-algerian lotfi otmani has just replaced the mauritanian ould amar yahya ( ... )
the ivorian nyckoss tommy tayoro created a new company in djibouti at the end of ( ... )
brunei boring ?
not to kiwi couple teaching locals the joys of rugby products ] [ new condos chiangmai ] place your banner on our website & get more hits add your banner to our website : of privacy and our company will act accordingly .
see faqsnoua „ piața universității ” | cadran politic protestele împotriva folosirii cianurilor pentru exploatarea aurului la roșia montana continuă .
și pe măsură ce ele continuă , devin din ce în ce mai bine organizate și cu un impact politic greu de evaluat în momentul de față . după douăzeci de ani , piața universității subminează din nou partidul lui ion iliescu .
la o primă vedere , principalul perdant este psd și liderii săi , victor ponta și sorin oprescu .
ambii au reușit să gafeze neforțat în situații simple .
eforturile lor de refacere a imaginii nu au făcut altceva decât să le arate și mai mult slăbiciunile .
psd ca partid de stânga se trezește cu o altă „ stânga ” , mai soft și mai umană , în vreme ce guvernarea lor este una de dreapta , deloc diferită de guvernarea pd .
spre deosebire de predecesorii săi incapabili de orice sentiment de compasiune , emil boc și mihai răzvan ungureanu , victor ponta a mimat convingător empatia , deși practic continuă politicile lor : acord cu fmi , grijă exagerată față de corporații și investitori , privatizare & # 8230 ; toate tezele favorite ale dreptei .
ponta a ales să tărăgăneze în speranța că protestele se vor stinge de la sine , însă rezultatul este cu totul altul , de la weekend la weekend crește numărul participanților .
prin vocea lui zgonea , psd a ales să fie pro-exploatare , pnl s-a poziționat contra .
traian băsescu preferă poziția atârnache încercând să-și promoveze „ oamenii noi ” .
ceea ce a deranjat în cazul roșia montană , la fel ca în 2012 în cazul legii sănătății , este modul în care se iau decizii , în cazul de față este favorizată o corporație printr-o lege specială exagerat de favorabilă .
sentimentul statului capturat de diverse interese potrivnice cetățeanului .
până la urmă , pentru toată lumea , roșia montană este un pretext .
pentru rmgc exploatarea aurului este pretextul pentru o foarte lucrativă speculație bursieră ( nici un investitor serios nu acceptă o tărăgănare de 10 ani a unui proiect dacă este interesat cu adevărat de acel proiect și nu de altceva ) , pentru cei din piață este doar un exemplu de guvernare inacceptabilă .
până nu a apărut această lege și bâlbâielile guvernului , proiectul interesa doar grupuscule mai degrabă nesemnificative de ecologiști .
ce se va întâmpla cu aceste proteste ?
depinde în ce grilă le analizăm .
protestele reprezintă un succes enorm prin numărul mare de participanți și calitatea organizării .
faptul că ele se deplasează în cartiere abandonând modelul falimentarului dans al pinguinului din piața victoriei este o idee excelentă , arătând ce & # 8230 ; nu se vede la televizor .
arătând că se poate , că vocea străzii trebuie să conteze .
nu trebuie uitat că aici discutăm de o problemă „ soft ” , nu ca în bulgaria sau grecia .
este , dacă vreți , un exercițiu înaintea liberalizării prețurilor la gaze și energie , a creșterii costurilor cu sănătatea .
faptul că o chestiune „ de principiu ” reușește să scoată în stradă atâta lume , după aproape două decenii de liniște socială , este un preview semnificativ pentru ce se va întâmpla când efectul politicilor din ultimii ani va ustura cu adevărat buzunarele .
este o presiune socială care nu are unde să se canalizeze .
un nou partid nu poate apărea datorită restricțiilor legislative pe care actuala clasă politică nu are nici un interes să le elimine .
partidele actuale nu pot prelua mesajele , încercările penibile ale unor lideri „ de dreapta ” eșuând lamentabil .
nu exclud ca evoluția politică să fie către un „ partid ” de independenți , fără organizare formală , fără organizații ( excluzând organizația facebook ) și care să participe la alegeri individual .
cu cât durează mai mult , cu atât cresc șansele coagulării unui program politic coerent cu șanse mari de reușită .
“ in anii ’ 80 capitalismul a triumfat asupra comunismului .
in anii ’ 90 capitalismul a triumfat asupra democratiei si economiei de piata .
pentru aceea dintre noi care au crescut in ideea ca fundamentul democratiei si libertatii pietei este capitalismul , realizarea faptului ca sub capitalism democratia este vanduta celui care plateste mai mult de pe piata si ca piata este planificata de catre megacorporatii mai mari decat cele mai multe dintre state , a reprezentat o cruda trezire la realitate ...
scapat de sub controlul opiniei publice , capitalismul este boala democratiei si a economiei de piata . ”
“ geopolitics of xxi century will be cosmo-humanist in its essence ” – about the power of information and policy of millennium iii with acad .
albert ignatenko “ geopolitica secolului xxi va fi una de factură cosmo-umanista ” – despre puterea informatiei si politica mileniului iii , impreuna cu acad .
albert ignatenko noua conducere de la beijing- o reală schimbare în politica chineză ?
revoluția din decembrie  89 : pacatul originar , sacrificiul fondator & # 8211 ; emil constantinescu a fi musulman .
islam , pace şi democratie & # 8211 ; alteţa sa regală prinţul el hassan bin talal © 2013 cadran politic · rss · designed by theme junkie · powered by wordpresssales growth can boost 3q profits - barrons.com scott wrote , " amputation is the least i can hope for " and , " we shall stick it out until the end but we are getting weaker , of course , and the end cannot be far . "
miller tabak upgraded the parent of dunkin ' donuts to buy from hold .
the websites offer powerful tools for figuring out how to finance a car , get a mortgage and fund retirement .
jefferies initiated coverage of manpowergroup and on assignment at buy .
sterne agee says antero is a close proxy for consol .
the reagan-era budget director caused an uproar when he attacked the economic strategy of his boss .
he now urges a huge tax on big earners .
localarkansas ' most wantedcounty by countyfamily healthneighborhood crime trackerhastings trial coverageeducation in arkansaslocal politicsnewslinksgood day arkansas90 seconds in the kitchenclass actfeel good fridayfox16 sweet 16mug shotsstatepoliticstalk politicscandidate trackermost popularfamily healthbreast self examhealth newsrace for the curewhat 's going arounddonna 's grief blogof interestfascinating factsthis day in historyslideshowsenvironmental newshealth newsnews calendarsnews right nowstate newsnewslinksslideshowshastings trial coverage antidepressants help treat fibromyalgia fda oks fibromyalgia drug savella naltrexone may ease fibromyalgia symptoms retrovirus linked to chronic fatigue syndrome short bursts of activity ease fibromyalgia sotomayor said the supreme court places a high bar for racially-based policies , but “ what you ’ re saying is if all those other measures fail , you ’ re by constitution saying you can ’ t go to the remedy that might work . ”
the meth has taken it 's toll on this skank , she could scare a buzzard off a meat truck the content has been reported and it will be reviewed by a moderator .
commentary : the us war on communism , drugs , and terrorism in colombia the 17 lawmakers from the opposition uprona party and three cndd-fdd .
nobody can bet on his independence because he will be judge and jury , " the position of ombudsman was a provision of the 2000 it had not previously been filled due to the lack of the the ombudsman is meant to play a key role in crisis resolution and can also arbitrate corruption and rights cases if the judiciary by insecurity which the government blames on " armed bandits " who emerged after a the government has now allowed trucks and upcountry buses to use the old system of a five per cent allowable axle-load for a month pending recommendations from a team of experts and stakeholders currently looking into the matter .
why now ?
do we always have to wait until there is a crisis in our hands before we get the resolve to act ?
we commend the son of a peasant , premier pinda , for his expressed empathy with the truck and bus owners over their concerns in what appears to be a & ldquo ; hole & rdquo ; in the way we run our weigh bridges .
we are told that at one weigh-bridge , the truck drivers are given a different figure from the one they got from the previous one – not having added an ounce of cargo in between !
we now discern that the man who prides himself as a man action is also a man of impulsive actions .
in vain attempts to defend his own viewpoint , the minister now wants all tanzanians to believe he is working in public interest .
right now , foreign ships calling at the dar port remain ’ stranded ’ at the outer anchorage .
even if we got a foolish donor support to bail us out , the damage to our landlocked neighbours cannot be calculated .
very few businesspeople will now have the level of confidence they previously had in the port of dar es salaam .
we shouldn ’ t blame anyone for opting to use mombasa , damn the cost and delayed deliveries .
calgary ted doesn 't care .
24 billion , plus continuing damage , is a small price to pay for his self-centered bow to the tea party .
ted didn 't even lead the charge .
yeah , he read dr suess into the record , but he stood on the side and let boehner and the house fall on their swords .
ted is a coward .
what you refer to as ' unsustainable borrowing ' is based on what ?
" the huffington post " is a registered trademark of thehuffingtonpost.com , inc .
all rights reserved.the new and improved bridgeway funds - barrons.com münchen - liebe grüße aus münchen !
ich bin zum start der huffington post deutschland hier in münchen .
wir freuen uns unsere zusammenarbeit mit tomorrow focus , teil der hubert burda media , verkünden zu können .
eines der am schnellsten wachsenden unternehmen für digitale medien zu dem das drittgrößte deutsche newsportal focus online ...
munich - bien le bonjour d 'allemagne !
je suis ici à munich pour le lancement du huffington post deutschland .
nous sommes heureux du partenariat avec tomorrow focus des médias hubert burda , une des compagnies multimédias allemandes dotée de la croissance la plus rapide d 'allemagne , qui détient le troisième plus ...
munich - bien le bonjour d 'allemagne !
je suis ici à munich pour le lancement du huffington post deutschland .
nous sommes heureux du partenariat avec tomorrow focus des médias hubert burda , une des compagnies multimédia allemandes dotée de la croissance la plus rapide d 'allemagne , qui détient le troisième plus ...
¡ saludos desde alemania !
me encuentro en múnich para el lanzamiento de the huffington post deutschland .
estamos encantados de asociarnos con tomorrow focus de hubert burda media , una de las empresas de medios digitales de más rápido crecimiento en alemania , que incluye a focus online , el tercer ...
monaco - saluti dalla germania !
sono qui a monaco per il lancio di huffington post deutschland .
siamo felici di collaborare con tomorrow focus di hubert burda media , una delle aziende tedesche più vitali nel campo dei media digitali , che include il terzo tra i maggiori siti di informazione in germania , ...
come migliorare immediatamente la propria vita ( un indizio : si comincia migliorando la vita degli altri ) el tercer parámetro en otros países : la redefinición del éxito se globaliza il terzo parametro varca i confini : la ridefinizione del successo diventa globale les " frappes signatures " et le discours creux d 'obama sur les drones les « frappes signatures » et le discours creux d 'obama sur les drones los " ataques distintivos " y la retórica vacía de obama sobre los ' drones ' i " signature strike " e la vuota retorica del presidente sui droni une carte postale du japon : zen , politiques « abenomiques » , réseaux sociaux et constitution en compagnie du premier ministre shinzo abe una cartolina dal giappone : chiacchierata con il primo ministro shinzo abe su zen , abenomics , social network e costituzione postal desde japón : una conversación sobre zen , abenomics , redes sociales y la constitución con el primer ministro shinzo abe how new and old are fighting for afghanistan 's future ( 10 / 17 / 2013 6 : 57 : 07 pm ) fehmina chaudhry , fehmina chaudhry beauty queen , fehmina chaudhry found , fehmina chaudhry kidnapped , fehmina chaudhry model , fehmina chaudhry murdered , fehmina chaudhry pakistani beauty queen , world news , an investigator from the aabpara and bani gala police told the express tribune waqar was arrested in the same hotel where waqar allegedly held his victim prior to murdering her in a car and dumping her body in a deserted area of islamabad .
that or the price of a porsche turbo in pakistan .
" the huffington post " is a registered trademark of thehuffingtonpost.com , inc .
all rights reserved .
this site uses cookies .
by continuing to browse the site you are agreeing to our use of cookies .
find out more here .
by lauren r. rublina change appears to be under way in the markets .
our experts explain the risks , and highlight the opportunities .
in addition to the email and password combination you may have used to sign in to this site , we now offer the ability to sign in with other login providers you may already be using .
click the logo for one of the login providers to the left to get started !
the support and nurture of healthy , vibrant parishes is paramount to our efforts .
it is important to have a vision of what we want in parish life .
all proposals for the future will be faithful to the teachings of the catholic church .
each parish in one way or another is to have a pastor assigned to it who is responsible for the pastoral care of that parish .
( canon law 517 ) every effort should be made to provide opportunities for all members of the parish to be aware of and involved in the planning process . * antarctic connection , llc and expedition trips have been established polar travel partners since 2000 .
trust the true polar experts ! “ geopolitica secolului xxi va fi una de factură cosmo-umanista ” – despre puterea informatiei si politica mileniului iii , impreuna cu acad .
albert ignatenko | cadran politic home interviu “ geopolitica secolului xxi va fi una de factură cosmo-umanista ” – despre puterea informatiei si politica mileniului iii , impreuna cu acad .
albert ignatenko considerat o somitate în unele cercuri ale oamenilor de știință , contestat abitir în altele , respectat și adulat de elevii săi , detestat și acuzat fără rețineri de oponenți , e o legedă vie , pe care el însuși o gestionează cu precizie de maestru , astfel încât chiar și cei care nu îl plac se văd nevoiți să recunoască că este cel puțin o figură interesantă .
știe să treacă cu eleganță de la show-urile facile de televiziune ( ce îl proclamă un fenomen al paranormalului ) la seriozitatea profesorului ce încearcă să le ofere cursanților săi o alternativă de viață și niște răspunsuri posibile la acele întrebări pe care , probabil , fiecare din noi și le-a pus măcar o dată în viață .
albert v. ignatenko , despre el fiind vorba , a avut amabilitatea de a răspunde întrebărilor adresate de power & politics world .
dacă răspunsurile sale uneori nu conving , cu siguranță însă ele nasc noi întrebări . atât pentru domnia sa , cât și deopotrivă pentru cititor .
domnule academician ignatenko , de la alvin toffler încoace , majoritatea știm că informația înseamnă putere sau mai exact , cine deține informația conduce lumea ( dicton aflat și pe fontispiciul site-ului dvs ) .
în același timp însă , ultimele decenii ne-au demonstrat că ( datorită în principal accesului la internet ) mai multă informație înseamnă , de fapt , mai puțină informație .
sistemul gândit de dvs. dorește în esență instituirea unei noi paradigme în care nu informația nudă ( și multă ) , ci modul în care înțelegem , clasificăm , utilizăm informația înseamnă putere ?
să începem cu niște date minime despre acest sistem .
eu sunt un om de știință , care se bazează în activitatea sa pe știința informațiologiei care s-a născut în 1992 ( întemeietorul acestei științe este savantul rus ivan yuzvishin ) și care a definit în termeni clari ce este informația . ca să folosim eficient informația , comunicarea sau , de exemplu , să disipăm norii , să îmbunătățim aptitudinile sportive , noi trebuie să definim cu precizie și să înțelegem ce este informația .
din punct de vedere științific . trebuie să știm legea conservării informației , să știm ce înseamnă energie , materie , mișcare .
și dacă dvs. acumulați aceste metode de comunicare , trebuie să cunoașteți și ce este omul ca sistem .
iar omul este un sistem energo-informațional .
în momentul în care știm aceste lucruri , putem forma comunicatori de succes , care vor folosi metode verbale , non-verbale , programe obișnuite sau matriceale , cu o densitate mai mare sau mai mică de informație .
acesta este alfabetul evolutiv al vieții pe care în general oamenii nu-l cunosc ( și nici nu e neapărat necesar să știe astfel de lucruri complicate ) .
e similar cum aș face eu un curs pe un supercomputer , dar eu nu știu programele sale de bază , pot să vă spun că acest computer este o super-mașină , dar atât , pentru că nu înțeleg modul în care el funcționează .
deoarece noi lucrăm cu capacitățile omului , dar capacitățile înseamnă în fapt informație , noi trebuie să știm clasificarea informației și cu ce viteză lucrează un tip sau altul de informație , cum să mărim capacitatea de penetrare a unei informații , cum să formăm programe informaționale prin care să lucrăm atât la nivel verbal cât și non-verbal .
da , au fost mulți cei care au prognozat că secolul al xx-lea și al xxi-lea vor fi informaționale , dar ca știință , aceasta i se datorează lui yuzvishin .
iar eu am transpus ideile sale pe individ , și am definit sistemul uman , am realizat clasificarea informației , modelul universului , mecanismele și legitățile de dezvoltare , și din 1999 aceste au început să fie studiate ca științe .
deci , cu toate că am început studiul potențialului uman încă din 1963 – adică acum jumătate de secol , acesta a primit statutul de știință abia în 1999 .
atunci , la începuturile activității mele , nu exista informațiologia , atunci eu eram adeptul materialismului , apoi am experimentat energia , psiho-sugestia și abia apoi informațiologia .
acum totul există ca știință și ne permite , fără a pierde foarte mult timp să oferim oamenilor abc-ul evoluției umane .
cosmo-umanismul este o nouă paradigmă , un nou drum .
noi am gândit planuri pe 36 de ani , din care au trecut deja 12 ani .
acum este următoarea etapă de 12 ani , iar la finalul celor 3 etape , ne-am propus atingerea veacului de aur .
un om care deține noul aparat de gândire poate lucra cu eficienta unui milion de oameni .
și automat poate ajuta milioane de oameni să-și prelucreze kharma .
de la distanță .
eu , de exemplu , în fiecare seară trimit asupra multor oameni programe , diferite programe , și miliarde de oameni primesc aceste programe .
și li se micșorează kharma .
eliminând kharma , informația negativă , acești oameni trăiesc mai bine , sunt mai sănătoși , își deschid capacitățile și își pot utiliza potențialul mai bine , primesc joburi mai bune , deci li se îmbunătățește viața în întregime .
totuși , iată , statelor unite ale americii , care sunt cea mai mare putere a lumii și care dispun probabil de cea mai completă bază de date ( am avut chiar recent dezvăluirile făcute de snowden privind programul prism ) , nu prea le-a folosit acest cumul uriaș de informații & # 8230 ; aici intervine capacitatea de a prevedea , de a prognoza , de aceea există și canale de prognoză .
însă dacă nu știm cum funcționează sistemul uman , evident că nu poți accesa acele canale de predicție .
poți să deții toată informația din lume , dar nu vei putea spune ce se va întâmpla într-un loc sau altul de pe mapamond .
fiecare nivel de conștiință umană are capacitățile sale : la primul nivel , de exemplu , este capacitatea de a te iubi pe tine , pe cei apropiați , la nivelul doi alte capacități & # 8230 ; intuiția , esențială în prognostice , se află pe nivelul șase .
dacă la nivelul șase specialistul este lipsit de kharmă , atunci canalul este deschis și atunci el poate prognoza cu acuratețe ce va fi în perspectivă .
dacă sunt deschise nivelele de mai sus , sau se folosesc toate nivelele de conștiință concomitent , putem să reprogramăm situațiile de criză ( de exemplu , existența unui tsunami – dirijând energia dinspre minus spre plus , efectele acestuia pot fi reduse considerabil ) .
sunt diverse variante de a lucra cu sistemul uman .
sistemul gândit de mine are precizat ce fel de capacități deține organismul uman și cum pot fi utilizate acestea la nivel maxim .
multă lume dispune de capacități nebănuite , dar sunt blocate de kharmă .
dacă avem multă informație negativă în lumea a șaptea , atunci omul nu-și va putea utiliza vocea , nu va putea cânta frumos , sau nu-și va putea folosi mâinile cu măiestrie .
neștiind cum este construit universul , noi nu am putea ști nici măcar unde este kharma și cu ce nivel de conștiință este aceasta legată .
știind aceste aspecte noi putem să îmbunătățim sănătatea și modul în care fiecare om își concepe existența .
acest lucru este valabil și la nivel de state / națiuni , pentru a prognoza creșterea economică , îmbunătățirea condițiilor sociale , a sistemului educațional sau să preîntâmpinăm declinul acestora .
omul având cheia devenirii sale poate orice .
și nu doar oamenii foarte dotați , orice om poate asta .
oamenii afectați de kharmă / informație negativă , vor învăța aceste tehnologii mult mai lent , iar ceilalți vor învăța mai repede .
nu pot să nu remarc modul de marketing a sistemul dvs . ( în esență unul cu reguli științifice și explicații austere ) & # 8230 ; eleganța generează credibilitate ?
eu am absolvit 3 facultăți și am 6 titluri academice .
una din specializările mele este psihologia managementului resurselor umane .
și se întâmplă să citesc lecții pentru persoane cu un statut important ( directori de bănci , manageri de top , specialisti în resurse umane ) și să îi învăț cum să comunice .
eu nu le spun că există univers , aură , kharmă , acestora le explic tehnocratic : iată , acesta este sistemul uman ! și le arăt imaginea .
omul are 12 niveluri de conștiință .
dvs. folosiți doar corpul fizic , intelectul .
dar partea de sus , unde viteza de realizare a programelor este mai mare , dvs nu o utilizați .
de aceea , atunci când dirijați un număr mai mare de persoane , dvs. aveți rezultate neînsemnate .
dar cei care au studiat deja aceste tehnologii vor obține rezultate cu 97 % procente mai mari .
astfel , timp de 6 ore eu le introduc noul aparat de gândire , îi învăț o serie de tehnologii foarte simple , sugestia , psiho-sugestia , cosmo-enio-psihosugestia la distanță , și toate acele metode psy-it prin care oamenii încep să lucreze mai ușor , se îmbunătățește calitatea muncii , sunt mai sănătoși , mai implicați și pentru binele celor din jur .
pentru pedagogi avem un program diferit , pentru medici alte programe s.a.m.d.
sistemul social care va decurge din sistemul de ansamblu al veacului de aur va fi unul bazat pe meritocrație ?
programul nostru are economiști de elită care vor da noile sisteme economice , avem pedagogi care vor gândi noi sisteme educaționale , politicieni care vor construi un alt mod de a face politică .
sună frumos .
dar ca să depășim stadiul ideatic , puteți să-mi dați și niște exemple concrete ?
noi avem un proiect , care s-a dovedit a fi funcțional .
el deja lucrează .
noi nu depindem de nimeni ca să îl punem în practică .
am înțeles asta .
dar eu sunt mai pragmatică din fire , deci voi insista pe exemple concrete & # 8230 ; de exemplu , ex-președintele slovaciei , rudolf shuster , când a dorit să devină președinte mi-a solicitat ajutorul .
iar eu l-am ajutat de la distanță și el a devenit președinte .
i s-a dat un program informațional pe care el l-a respectat și a reușit .
de obicei nu fac publice numele politicienilor pe care îi ajut decât după un interval minim de 5-7 ani .
la fel este în orice domeniu de activitate , economie , finanțe , educație , sănătate .
politicianul trebuie să aibă toate acele calități care să-l situeze în elita informațională .
am câteva țări în care pregătesc din rândul tineretului viitori candidați la președinție .
dacă veți întreba un psiholog , sau un profesor , sau chiar un politician ce este elita , nimeni nu ar putea să vă răspundă & # 8230 ; eu cred că majoritatea oamenilor pot spune ce este elita , doar că actuala “ elită ” se dovedește a fi extrem de departe de reperele valorice umane la care vă referiți dvs & # 8230 ; de aceea intreb cum va arăta viitoarea elită , prin ce se va deosebi de cea actuală ?
elita către care aspirăm înseamnă intelect , cultură , forța gândirii , a voinței dar și a spiritului , etică și estetică , și intuiție , bunătate și iubire de oameni , și desigur credința și respect față de creație .
când omul respectă , îndeplinește toate aceste cerințe , și știe ce înseamnă omul ca sistem , și cum lucrează informația în acest sistem și în planurile eterice , atunci el poate deveni un specialist , un profesionist absolut , indiferent de domeniu în care activează .
oamenii pe care îi pregătim noi vor fi elita .
sunt oameni de facturi diferite , sunt oameni foarte bogați care nu fac din bogația lor reperul principal , dar și oameni cu venituri obișnuite .
sunt medici de înaltă pregătire , care au clienți de la omul obișnuit și până la elita actuală , sunt pedagogi și profesori care educă copii din familii diferite ca statut social , sunt mulți artiști foarte cunoscuți .
lucrăm cu circa 20 de academii , cu universitatea de studii fundamentale din rețeaua oxford , unde există deja catedra mea de psiho-energo-informațiologie .
lucrăm cu multe țări din lume și avem 21 de specializări .
pregătim psiho-informațiologi , pedagogi psiho-informațiologi , etc . lucrăm și cu anumite structuri pentru care pregătim specialiști în domeniul securității etc .
pentru că ați amintit de specialiștii forțelor de securitate , care este relația dvs cu serviciile secrete ?
eu lucrez cu numeroase organisme internaționale din domeniu protecției și securității , de exemplu , comitetul internațional de luptă împotriva terorismului , dar nu numai .
sunt organizații transnaționale .
oficial , eu nu lucrez cu instituțiile de inteligence a niciunui stat .
nu , nici neoficial .
nu mă interesează asta .
eu lucrez cu organizații la nivel global , avem propria noastră organizație a națiunilor unite , care este înregistrată deja și unde vor lucra cosmo-umaniștii .
sunt de asemenea asociat la interpol .
am creat și niște comitete internaționale pentru protecția președinților de stat , avem și un proiect de poliție mondială , iar toate aceste organizații au fost înregistrate în sua .
există și un comitet internațional pentru lupta împotriva corupției , s.a.m.d.
oamenii deja vor să trăiască altfel , și majoritatea recunosc că vechiul sistem este unul perimat .
am făcut multe în viață , dar tot ce am făcut a fost pentru direcția mea , ca să fiu un om de știință , și pe nivel social eu nu lucrez pentru mine .
eu am totul , absolut totul .
deoarece organizația noastră se ocupă de un proiect mare , global , acesta se va consolida cu participarea tuturor celor implicați .
cu noi lucrează deja tot mai mulți savanți din toată lumea .
numai în ucraina avem peste 600 , vreo 400 din rusia , iar ca și comunitate noi deținem cele mai noi tehnologii informative .
tehnologii pentru a crea energie regenerabilă , aproximativ ca acelea gândite de nikolas tesla , ba chiar mai eficiente , avem o bogăție colosală , dar ecologică , pentru că pe viitor lumea nu va mai lupta ( pentru acapararea de resurse ) ci doar va evolua .
iar cel mai scump produs al organizației cosmo-umaniștilor : tinerețea .
nimeni în lume nu deține acest produs , indiferent de câți bani are .
din cei care se află în organizația noastră , circa 200 000 la nivel global , sunt însă câțiva care dețin acest produs , ei pot reîntineri organismul uman , și încet-încet mulți vor învăța asta .
și vor obține pentru acest produs milioane și miliarde de euro .
excelent , domnule profesor !
doar că ar fi o mică problemă totuși & # 8230 ; deja se pare că suntem prea mulți ( aspect confirmat chiar de onu ) !
ce ne facem dacă vom și trăi foarte mult ? & # 8230 ; atunci când populația va ajunge să trăiască foarte mult ( să zicem , peste 100 de ani ) , oamenii nu vor avea mulți copii , ci cel mult unu-doi , dar majoritatea populației care are foarte multă kharmă va pleca .
ei vor alege acest lucru .
pe oameni nu-i distruge nimeni , asta e o fantezie , oamenii singuri se auto-distrug , așa cum se întâmplă cu unele țări din africa , așa cum se întâmplă cu egiptul care a fost o țară înfloritoare cândva .
în viitor , vor rămâne oamenii care au kharma minimală , cam 1-2 miliarde și vor trăi foarte bine .
iar cei care vor veni , vor avea o kharmă minimă , vor gândi altfel decât în prezent .
acesta e un sistem preluat / prelucrat de noi , iar pe viitor vom pregăti câteva filme pe tema asta .
totul este construit simplu și genial .
obținând din sistem informația simplă și genială putem conduce omenirea pe un drum foarte scurt pentru a evolua .
dvs vorbiti de un program până în 2036 .
nu știu cât de atractivă poate fi o astfel de alternativă , dat fiind că , iată , noile generații par a fi cu mult mai puțin răbdătoare decât cei maturi .
tinerii de astăzi vor totul , fără prea mult efort și dacă se poate , acum .
ce le-ați spune acestora ?
nimic nu se poate fără un pic de efort .
până în 1991 , eu am publicat aprox .
600 de articole în toate publicațiile vremii din fosta urss , și chiar și acum am păstrat acest bun obicei de a scrie 15-20 de articole pe an .
după congresul comunității psihologilor din 1984 , jurnalele de știință din fosta urss au titrat că ignatenko a creat tehnica hipnozei prin metode non-verbale .
dar eu nu am folosit hipnoza .
hipnoza este un spațiu de lucru foarte îngust prin comparație cu psiho-sugestia .
mi-am dedicat mare parte din carieră studiului psiho-sugestiei , a cercetărilor prin care să demonstrez că aceasta merită statutul de știință cu acte în regulă ( și asta în țara cu un profund atașament către ideologia materialistă ) .
iar rezultatele s-au văzut abia în 1993 , când comunitatea oamenilor de știință a acceptat ca urmare a argumentelor aduse și a cercetărilor efectuate fundamentarea acestei noi științe umaniste , complet independente de orice tip de ideologie .
de asemenea , eu nu am avut o ascensiune fulminantă peste noapte , primul doctorat l-am obținut în 1996 , iar abia apoi au urmat celelalte .
e drept , că am avut parte de mari corifei ai științei ruse ( ivan yuzvishin , dar și alții ) care s-au arătat interesați de cercetările mele , iar acest aspect a contat foarte mult .
și desigur , am avut în vedere și faptul că tot ceea ce este nou și ieșit din tiparele tradiționale are parte de respingere , din cauza inerției și a rezistenței la schimbare a comunității umane în general .
acum toate aceste rezultate deja există și lucrurile se pot derula mult mai rapid .
cu ce categorie de cursanți lucrați cel mai bine ?
e mai usor dacă există un anumit background educațional , spiritual ?
nu există categorii de oameni mai buni sau mai răi , mai mult sau mai puțin capabili .
există doar profesori / pedagogi fără har !
eu lucrez cu oameni din toate categoriile sociale , fără niciun fel de discriminare .
de altfel , prima mea specializare este cea de pedagog .
cosmo-umanistă .
geopolitica secolului xxi va fi una universală , bazată pe știința despre om și în folosul omului , și pe legile informaționale după care este construit sistemul uman , analog celui universal .
iar politicienii vor înțelege că trebuie să lucreze în folosul omenirii și cu respectarea legilor universale .
câți politicieni știți dvs. astfel ?
căci mie , sincer , nu-mi par prea multi a da semne de „ trezire spirituală ” & # 8230 ; e o percepție greșită .
nu cantitatea , ci calitatea contează .
un politician bine pregătit poate schimba mentalitatea unor comunități întregi , poate lucra cu milioane de oameni .
vă asigur că în 2036 veți vedea aceste rezultate .
toți oamenii sunt buni , au un potențial extraordinar , și în rusia , și în românia , moldova , ucraina , în cealaltă parte de europa sau în america .
toți vor o altfel de viață , în acord cu valorile umanismului .
dacă toți oamenii sunt buni , atunci nu pot să nu întreb : cine-i vinovat de faptul că trăim într-o lume lipsită de repere umane solide , o lume aflată în disoluție ?
strămoșii noștri .
ei au purtat războaie de cucerire , de asuprire a altor popoare , au acumulat kharmă negativă .
ororile conflictelor din ultimii 2000 de ani și chiar anterior , au generat o uriașă acumulare de informație negativă , care a atras la rândul său informație negativă .
ați amintit într-un interviu anterior de un program de păstrare a genofondului româniei .
e un mod indirect de antenționare că națiunea noastră e în pericol ?
referitor la întrebarea dvs , acesta este un program de bază pe care eu îl derulez în toate țările cu care lucrez , iar pentru că românia se află printre țările cu care am vechi și statornice relații , e de la sine înțeles că nu putea lipsi din acest program .
în 1994 , când am venit prima dată în românia , am fost plăcut impresionat de dezvoltarea pe care o aveau cercetările parapsihologice și seriozitatea celor ce activau în acest domeniu .
apoi am observat că în țara dvs nivelul de spiritualitate este mai înalt , astfel că oamenii învață mai ușor , sunt mai deschiși la noile tehnici informaționale , iar din acest considerent , pe viitor dorim inițierea unei colaborări la nivel academic pentru studierea acestei științe și a programelor aferente .
next “ geopolitics of xxi century will be cosmo-humanist in its essence ” – about the power of information and policy of millennium iii with acad .
albert ignatenko © 2013 cadran politic · rss · designed by theme junkie · powered by wordpressburundi réalités les milices congolaises forceraient les civils à leur acheter des armes les milices congolaises forceraient les civils à leur acheter des dans l ’ est de la république démocratique du congo ( rdc ) , les groupes armés ont imposé une nouvelle loi aux familles des villages qu ’ ils contrôlent : chacune d ’ entre elles devra acheter une arme à feu auprès du groupe armé local , ce ne sont pas les armes qui manquaient déjà dans le masisi .
maintenant , et d ’ après de nombreuses personnes qui y ont fui la violence , posséder une arme à feu est devenu pratiquement une obligation dans certains des villages de ce ces personnes déplacées , qui appartiennent à différentes ethnies de la région , vivent dans un camp au village de shasha , non loin du masisi .
le soi-disant selon m. bonane , ceux qui essaient de retourner à leurs villages , pour s ’ occuper de leurs champs , se voient dire par les groupes armés qu ’ ils doivent acheter des armes à feu .
et une dizaine de ses compagnons , dont nyirumba vuleta , le m. vuleta affirme avoir été harcelé quand il est retourné à son village .
les hommes armés qui contrôlent le secteur lui ont dit que , puisqu ’ il a un champ , il doit avoir un fusil , et s ’ il n ’ en achète pas un , il devra partir .
mais ce n ’ est pas tout , explique m. bonane , il y a une troisième option : travailler comme un esclave .
selon lui , on force les villageois à acheter des fusils pour qu ’ ils puissent défendre leurs villages en cas d ’ attaque .
ceux qui ne se plient pas à cette décision sont obligés de travailler , sans paie , comme gardiens .
et si les désaccords avec le groupe armé local persistent , ils cette nouvelle loi sur les achats d ’ armes a été imposée en mai dans les territoires de masisi et de walikalé par les milices nyatura et raia mutomboki .
selon lui , des politiciens et certains officiers de l ’ armée fournissent ces armes , mais il a – comme beaucoup d ’ autres – refusé de s ’ armer , pour éviter parmi les politiciens identifiés par adolphe bonane : jean-bosco sebishimbo , un a la mission de l 'onu pour la stabilisation de la rdc , la monusco , une source dit qu ’ une équipe se rendra au camp de shasha pour enquêter sur ces allégations .
message de condoleances adresse aux familles vicimes des recents massacres de gatumba et au peuple burundais .
declaration du cndd au sujet de la question des negociations rapport du projet mapping concernant les violations les plus graves des droits de l ’ homme et du droit international humanitaire commises entre mars 1993 et juin 2003 sur le territoire de la république démocratique du congo memorandum sur les irregularites et fraudes massives des elections communales du 24 mai 2010 declaration du parti cndd au sujet de la greve des enseignants du primaire et du secondaire anglais | données | images | archives | contactez-nous | rendez-vous they don ’ t ask me , man .
i keep trying .
come on , i can do it .
i can do it .
even let me play a bad guy , let me play the bad guy against batman .
i ’ ll do anything , call me .
they ’ ve never asked .
what do i gotta do ?
god , i want to throw a shield at somebody .
i want that .
and i don ’ t want to play the guy in the suit who tells the superheroes what ’ s going on , i don ’ t want to be that guy .
‘ well , you know batman , captain america , iron man , here ’ s what we ’ ve discovered , ’ i don ’ t want to be that guy .
i want to get in there , i want to play the flash or something like that .
they ’ ll never give me a chance .
what is the primary reason you are reporting this message as abusive ?
lounging poolside at the westin verasa , soaking up the sun on a particularly warm monday , the group of 20- and 30-somethings certainly looked the part of wine country tourists .
but for these visitors this vacation was all work . ( 10 / 17 / 2013 6 : 28 : 00 pm ) hanoi , 17 okt ( bernama ) -- malaysia dan vietnam hari ini menandatanganimemorandum persefahaman ( mou ) bagi kerjasama dalam pengajian tinggi termasukpertukaran staf akademik , pakar dan penuntut institusi pengajian tinggi.mou itu ditandatangani timbalan perdana menteri merangkap menteri pendidikantan sri muhyiddin yassin bagi pihak kerajaan malaysia dan vietnam diwakilimenteri pelajaran dan latihan ... ( 10 / 17 / 2013 7 : 44 : 24 am ) malaysia perlu jadi negara mesra belia , kata bekas menteri umno malaysia seharusnya dijadikan " dunia bagi golongan 35 tahun ke bawah " , kata penyandang jawatan ahli majlis tertinggi ( mt ) umno , datuk seri jamaluddin jarjis dalam usahanya menawan pengundi yang majoritinya berada dalam lingkungan umur berkenaan .
sehubungan itu , bekas duta besar malaysia ke amerika syarikat itu , berkata pergerakan pemuda umno ... ( 10 / 17 / 2013 10 : 21 : 25 pm ) nosy be ( madagascar ) ( afp ) - a mob in madagascar lynched two europeans and a local man thursday suspecting them of murdering a young boy for his organs , the authorities and witnesses said . ( 10 / 3 / 2013 2 : 55 : 37 pm ) all you can eat buffet which is good . you are paying for convenience at this hotel .
nigeria 's wema bank swings to pretax profit of 563 mln naira © 2013 indexmundi - all rights reservedroad maps for thailand road maps .
road maps .
map of petchaburi , nakhon sawan highways , khon kean , ] [ kampaeng phet map , nakhon sawan map , chaiyaphun map , pichet map , uthai thani map ] [ phrae map , uttradit map , loei map , lampang map ] [ nong khai map , udon thani map , sakhon nakhon map , nakon phanom map , cambodian border map ] [ kalasin map , roi et map , udon ratchatani map , mukdahan map , cambodian map ] [ nakhon ratchasim map , buri ram map , udon ratchatani map , surin map , kalasin map , surin map , aranyaprathet map , cambodian lower border map ] [ northern thai map , chiangmai map , mae hong son map , chiangrai map , mae sai map ] [ nakhon sawn map , chai nat map , suphan buri map ] i am a current subscriber and need to register on investors.com.
i am not a current subscriber and want to register for free membership on investors.com.
copyright : material published in the intermountain commercial record , inc. online and in the foreclosure and notice of defaults reports is abstracted , compiled nad formatted at substantial expense for the sole and exclusive use of the subscriber and may not be copied republished or resold in any manner in whole or in part without the written consent in writing of the intermountain commercial record , inc ’ s publisher . any infringement will be subject to legal redress limited warranty / indemnity / limited liability : except for the express warranties stated herein , the intermountain commercial record , inc. disclaims all warranties including all implied warranties of merchantability and fitness for a particular purpose .
you understand and agree that your use of this web site and of any services or content provided ( the " service " ) is at your own risk .
services and content are provided to you " as is " , and the intermountain commercial record , inc. expressly disclaims all warranties of any kind , either implied or express , including but not limited to warranties of merchantability , fitness for a particular purpose , and non-infringement . ( b ) you will not impersonate or misrepresent your association with any person or entity ; you will not forge or otherwise seek to conceal or misrepresent the origin of any content provided by you ; wall street cheered the deal to reopen the government .
but will investors cheer earnings ?
what to buy and avoid. epublished by pressmart [ digital magazine publishing ] diocese of duluth - catholic church in northeastern minnesota stateline – gas tax loses favor as governors look for new transportation money the reason is simple , says josh culling , the group ’ s state affairs manager : “ it is a big tax hike . ”
dijit can now send tv reminders to your email , on behalf of your favorite ... techcrunch - by ryan lawlerdijit / nextguide gives tv networks a reminder widgetxconomy - by wade roushin depth : nextguide partners with fox , bbc america and trutv on tv show remindersgigaom - by janko roettgerssee realtime coveragesee all 8 sourcesrelated television network forget tech : the hot ipo is ... the postal service ?
and here is a white whine - " ugh , every time i go to paris i get sick . "
my book ran out of batteries , and other modern complaints traffic is a measure of how well a society is doing .
in a place where almost nobody can afford a car there shouldn ’ t be much traffic , right ?
so we should all look at traffic jams as the net result of our continued prosperity .
but we don ’ t look at it that way because traffic is just the worst .
i won ’ t pretend that traffic isn ’ t horrible but i think most of us can accept it as a part of life , especially when it is the result of a horrible accident .
most of us can accept that .
not all of us , though ...
the good news is that these white whiners will always find the service they so deeply desire .
how do we know ?
because as soon as a connection can be made , they hit twitter and facebook to tell the harrowing tale of the time they only had one bar of edge .
if movies and tv are to be believed , when a medieval king did not feel he was being treated properly by an underling he would bellow , “ off with his head ! ” and a horde of sycophants would whisk the unlucky fellow away to meet god .
the days of lopping off the heads of underperforming servants are long gone , but that doesn ’ t mean the idea of shaming someone lower on the social ladder for poor service has disappeared .
‘ the cnmi gave too much for us citizenship , federal benefits ’ govt now ready to amend conflicting laws on marriage na waryoba yankami ippmedia.com © 1998-2013 .
all rights reservedoppd all in for a mighty wind despite abdoulaye wade ’ s continued assertions that he is the parti democratique senegalais ’ ‘ only constant ’ , with the ex-president tucked away in exile in france the party is now in the grip of a succession war . ( ... )
the managing director of teranga gold corp and the man in charge of its relations ( ... )
the non-executive director of nordgold is keeping a close eye on the fall in the ( ... ) 33 out of 100 seats are up for election .
51 are needed for a majority .
all 435 seats are up for election .
218 are needed for a majority .
" the huffington post " is a registered trademark of thehuffingtonpost.com , inc .
all rights reserved . contact if you would like to contact us about a local touch with one of our telesales representatives by clicking here .
father james bissonette is the diocese ’ s vicar general .
he has expertise in canon law and experience as pastor of clustered parishes in marble / taconite and carlton / cromwell / wright .
liz hoefferle is a former director of religious education and a member of the bishop ’ s committee on catechesis for the diocese of duluth .
copyright © irin 2013 .
all rights reserved .
this material comes to you via irin , the humanitarian news and analysis service of the un office for the coordination of humanitarian affairs .
the opinions expressed do not necessarily reflect those of the united nations or its member states .
the boundaries , names and designations used on maps on this site and links to external sites do not imply official endorsement or acceptance by the un .
republication is subject to terms and conditions as set out in the irin copyright page.varia | cadran politic m-am gândit că ar fi interesant de citit un material legat de ceea ce înseamnă politica , mai mult într-o formă teoretică .
care sunt de fapt bazele pe care ar trebui să se deruleze actiunile politice , pentru că , dacă este vorba de practică , trebuie să recunoaştem că sunt mari diferenţe între aşteptări şi realitate .
datorită dezvoltării fără precedent a industriei farmaceutice şi a forţei sale economice , medicina actuală trece prea uşor peste valoarea terapeutică a alimentelor naturale , deşi însuşi hipocrat , părintele medicinii europene , spunea : & # 8220 ; hrana pe care o mănânci să-ţi fie medicament & # 8221 ; .
încă de la începutul anilor & # 8220 ; 80 , aşa cum recunosc şi organizaţia mondială a sănătaţii ...
sub patronajul american college of chest physicians ( accp ) şi societatea română de pneumologie ( srp ) la iaşi în perioada 20-22 mai 2010 va avea loc întâlnirea educaţională cu tema : “ actualităţi privind reabilitarea pulmonară şi ventilaţia mecanică la domiciliu ” , care va beneficia de prezenţa unor renumiţi specialişti străini ca speakeri şi participanţi .
printre organizatorii ...
în timp ce preocuparea româniei relativă la chestiuni extrateritoriale precum situaţia provinciilor kossovo şi transnistria , respectiv statusul militar autohton în irak , este extrem de manifestă , neglijarea ( volitivă sau doar aparentă ) a desfăşurătorului politic intrateritorial se dovedeşte similar de manifestă .
nejustificat de manifestă .
formarea unor grupuri regionale pe baza intereselor comune ale politicienilor din anumite zone ale româniei a devenit o modă în toate formaţiunile politice .
acest fenomen este extrem de vizibil în transilvania .
grupurile formale sau informale din interiorul partidelor urmăresc să conserve puterea unora dintre lideri sau să le ofere acestora forţă în negocierile cu conducerea centrală a ...
soluţia tot mai des vehiculată a salvării româniei din criză este promovarea turismului şi atragerea de investitori în domeniu .
în timp ce politicienii îşi bat capul pe la diverse simpozioane internaţionale , drumurile se fac praf , iar vechea structură pe care s-a clădit cândva turismul ajunge încet , dar sigur o ruină .
o serie de oameni de afaceri investesc în fotbal tocmai pentru a obţine vizibilitate .
cazurile ex-vicepremierului george copos şi cel al preşedintelui png , george becali , sunt cele mai notorii în acest sens .
la cluj însă lucrurile se petrec pe dos .
o serie de oameni de afaceri cu vizibilitate mare au ales să investească în fotbal ca să facă bani .
unii dintre ei au reuşit .
alţii s-au ...
lumea politică a clujului a fost zguduită de o serie de scandaluri legate de concesiuni ilegale de terenuri .
partidul cel mai puternic lovit a fost psd .
protipentada psd a beneficiat de atribuirea unor loturi generoase de teren în staţiunea beliş din munţii apuseni , la preţuri extrem de mici .
pe listele beneficiarilor concesiunii ...
când se vorbeşte despre târgu mureş , în general , oamenii se gândesc la un oraş cu aspect occidental şi multe femei frumoase .
când oamenii de afaceri vorbesc despre oraşul de pe mureş , se gândesc la lipsa de siguranţă a investiţiei lor din cauza întâmplărilor de acum 16 ani .
dacă se poate numi întâmplare acea ieşire aproape inumană a unora împotriva altora .
anul 2006 se anunţă cumplit pentru mai bine de 90 la sută din ţărani .
potrivit noului buget al ministerului agriculturii , nivelul subvenţiilor acordate agriculturii se reduce la 30 la sută , iar modalitatea de acordare a sprijinului de stat devine una extrem de ciudată .
practic , statul va subvenţiona modest doar viile , legumele şi livezile , plus câteva culturi care nu se mai cultivă de ... © 2011 cadran politic · rss · designed by theme junkie · powered by wordpress holy see ( vatican city ) news headlines © 2013 indexmundi - all rights reservedthai business news and handy honts for expats and tourists " 29 tanin co ltd " .
we can now offer you services at very services .
we also have khun nida bangklok and pattaya law services. the voting electorates recently & the inconvenience caused by the rak thai " to woo candidates away from there respective parties .
to buy other party candidates is a disappointment for the police are searching for two thieves who slit open a woman & # 8217 ; s handbag and stole her purse in bicester on friday .
snow is a valuable storehouse of information to a glaciologist .
as it is slowly compacted and recrystallized by subsequent snowfalls , it forms a historical record. and examples of the treatment of withholding tax and vat on payments of fees , took the view that the construction expense was a disallowable expense in the paid for the direct benefit of the land and houses in the permitted project. o deduct wear and tear and depreciation of such properties in accordance with if your accountant is not doing his / her job and you have problems with the revenue dept then ask us for advice .
this is free and we are used to dealing with them .
ask your accountant if they are experienced in the business they do for you and if in doubt ask us thailand .
if in doubt ask for their reg number . please note we cannot assist those expats who want fiancee visas to visit the usa , england etc .
all the may not include govt fees but please ask us .
changes may occur due to charges may change in the course of our work due to govt or law changes occurring to exporters list ] [ container cost ] [ shipping to usa ] [ shipping personal items ] [ shipping no parts or parts of this website may be copied , printed or circulated for trading post co ltd by way of contract .
all infringements will be an “ even though i asked for an interpreter , they wouldn ’ t give it to me .
i tried to explain to the police what had happened , but they arrested me and let my husband – who does speak english – go home , ” said macareno , the mother of a seven year-old child .
without understanding why she had been arrested , macareno pled guilty to minor charges at her lawyer ’ s advice .
“ he told me it was difficult to beat a police offer .
i got six months of probation and every time i have to go to court i ’ m absolutely terrified , ” she said .
homehomehot topics ( 3 new ) current affairs ( 1 new ) world newsbusiness & # 38 ; financeindustry sectorstechnology ( 10 new ) sciencesport ( 1 new ) lifestyleentertainment & # 38 ; arts ( 21 new ) world newsworld newseuropenorth americalatin americacaribbeanasiaafricamiddle eastsouth pacificlatin americalatin americasouth americacentral americasouth americasouth americaargentinaboliviabrazilchilecolombiaecuadorfalkland islandsperuuruguayvenezuelauruguaysport the news ticker , which is broadcasted through kuna ’ s internet website , is transferred to the subscriber ’ s website .
it includes the main headlines and the latest in news developments .
the monthly fee for the subscription is 50 kd as long as it is not less than three months .
the subscriber can choose one or both of the two categories : you may use these html tags and attributes : < a href = " " title = " " > < abbr title = " " > < acronym title = " " > < b > < blockquote cite = " " > < cite > < code > < del datetime = " " > < em > < i > < q cite = " " > < strike > < strong > site map | terms of use | privacy statement | copyright & trademark notice | eeobars , girls gogo , & fun and in pattaya many on our books at present .
pattaya is a haven for short time sex and theres fee to stay with you.-- costs without drinks = 1000 baht upwards .
try the butterfly bars or go to soi yadsak as this are pattayaland soi 2 which is predominantly owned by an american investor try the g spot bar with lots of girls right opposit the favoiurite drinking hole of bruce allport & english paul 's " jack & tars " which is my favourite and a good bunch of expats drinkers and regulars like english peter .
[ pattaya buffets ] [ pattaya foodland prices ] [ pattaya food places ] [ pattaya useful tel numbers ] [ pattaya best seafood restaurants ] [ pattaya bars ] [ pattaya car / motorcycle reg office ] [ thailand finance news ] [ pension funds ] [ depression looms 2008 ] [ hedge funds 2008 ] [ investing fund guidelines ] why you [ do not invest in finance companies ] [ buy gold not shares or invest in finance companies ] [ thai property speculation & sub prime crises ] infringement of privacy and our company will act accordingly .
see try another request or click here to search for all pages on ireland to close apple 's tax break , not that it will make the slightest difference to anything at all how ireland have become the antithesis of everything roy keane stood for if fishing was not discontinued .
canada has been worried about the overfishing geese on their annual migration , by imprinting the chicks on the aircraft. not seen in alaskan waters but the summer 's warmer-than-usual temperature a type of arctic sandpiper , has been dying off in " astounding numbers " the family of an 18-year-old dancer who died after her car hit a deer in hertfordshire have paid tribute to a " true star " . ask us for small quantities under 1cbm .
all our terms are lof c or tt transfer before products to the uk & eu & usa have quotas which you must pay for before polyester etc & are levied per each on top of the quoted buying price .
we reserve the right to change quotations if shipping / government loads only in thailand .
let us do the work for you chillie bins & ice boxes , coolers with new designs just out july you have your own cgi bin form & all inquiries go back direct to you .
as websites for inquiries & how to start .
if you want us to source and quality control right to shipping your goods we handle everything as we now have our own [ types of ice boxes , chillie bins , coolers for hot and cold applications of privacy and our company will act accordingly .
see faqswhere jim rogers is investing now - barrons.com costa del sol newscosta blanca newsaxarquia - malaga east newscosta del almeria newsmallorca newsproperties in spain costa del solcosta blanca northcosta blanca southaxarquiacosta de almeriamallorcaspanish newsgibraltar musicphotographyshoppingtravelmotoringbloggingsportsbooks and literaturecharitysettling in spainhouse and homeliving in spainreligionsubmitting content leapy leepeter fieldmannora johnsonfia tarrantvicki mcleodmike walshstephen amoretony matthewsdavid danceycharities cornerric polanskyguest columnistbenny davistraveljim collinsnorman macleodcollin hallcraig irelandchris marshallsuzanne mannersulrica marshalljack gaionilaura pennjane plunkettdavid searlrichard shanleynick snellingclodagh and dick handscombeana jefferson-smithcassandra nashsally trotman film reviewrestaurantslifestyle ewn technologyshoppingbusiness ewnbook reviewhealth and beautyconnie 's pet cornerpets your letterstestimonialsjust fancy that ! gardeningdavid the dogmanpuzzles and gamesvideo newsadvertising featuremotoringmaddocks ' view on lifestreet talk costa blanca northcosta blanca southcosta del solcosta de almeriaaxarquia - malaga eastmallorca in wake of u.s. shutdown , china stresses ‘ interests of all ’ último eclipse lunar de 2013 se observará la noche de este viernessólo los habitantes de australia , japón y la mayor parte del pacífico se perderán este eclipse , en el que la luna se esconderá detrás de la parte norte de la penumbra ... más de 34.000 personas han recibido tratamiento contra la malaria en el paíslos casos de esta patología disminuyeron a casi la mitad en estas dos semanasfábrica de luminarias microled operará en enero de 2014 durante una inspección realizada en estas instalaciones como parte del gobierno de calle , que se lleva a cabo en esa entidad , fernández indicó que la producción será de ...
último eclipse lunar de 2013 se observará la noche de este viernes más de 34.000 personas han recibido tratamiento contra la malaria en el país madelin plácidos es la compositora de libertad , una pieza que expresa lo que siente un privado cuando está en la cárcel cumaná será la primera ciudad de venezuela con cartografía completa la ciudad oriental cumplirá 500 años de fundación en 2015 " y el mejor regalo que le podemos hacer es el de crearle un sistema donde la población pueda ver todo sobre su localidad : casas , edificios , barrios , calles , y hasta la esquina de la cuadra donde vive " fiscal : venezuela sigue siendo ejemplo en la lucha por un mundo más justo en julio pasado se realizó en caracas la reunión ministerial de la comunidad de estados latinoamericanos y caribeños ( celac ) por la erradicación del hambre y la pobreza en la región , que reunió a más de 20 ministros , ministras y delegados gubernamentales de los países que integran el organismo ilícitos cambiarios y triangulación afectan disponibilidad y encarecen los boletos aéreos viernes con precipitaciones dispersas en centro occidente y los andes mrw reintegró 261.000 bolívares a usuarios tras actuación del indepabis are you looking for flood , drought , earthquake or storm information ?
sealing youth offender records brings ‘ chance at a new life ’ below is a sample issue of our e-edition .
to view the current e-edition of the newspaper , you need to log in as an e-edition subscriber .
if you 're not currently a subscriber to the e-edition , you can subscribe now !
tip : click on the article you are interested in to bring up an easy-to-read format , or scan through the issue by clicking on the arrows to the side of the page .
if the link you clicked was incorrect , click the back button on your browser to return to the last page you visited , or click the link below to go to the home page .
yanga members to decide on formation of company na elias kimaro young africans officials and members based in dar es salaam have come into an agreement to give an opportunity to the rest of the fans in the country on the decision to form or not to form a limited company .
hinting on the derby on sunday kizuguto said his team has no injury as the camp is going on well .
the technical bench is proceeding doing its part while fans are just waiting for the victory .
for a foreigner take a thai with you but check if nice paint the car hasn 't been filled with plastibond .
if new grill etc check for signs of a repaint .
even ask to put thru a test at b = quik or auto care if you think the underneath needs new ball joints etc. and always check for leaks and if the oil has been changed .
make sure the reg book shows both the numbers for chassis and engine and are correct .
paint jobs are cheap in thailand as are body work .
make sure battery not too old but batteries too are cheap 1000 baht upwards and look at the clutch fluid etc heights .
if low then check underneath the car for tell tale signs or leaks .
if you have a mechanic friend to go over with you even better .
just remember cars are dear in thailand and theres many to choose from so always ask for a discount. make sure the spare tyre is ok and you have jack and wheel , brace .
you can even buy a thai car mag in any bookshop so then you get a feeling for the price you want to pay for .
have change of ownership form with you and power of attorney so your thai friend can do the change over .
basically if biying used cars take to b quik or auto care as these guys go over every car with a report .
parts for popular cars are cheap. eg isuzu pickups are the best unless you want a vigo but 3 lutre vigos are juicy on the gas .
parts for isuzuis are really cheap and the gold top motor is the best motor if looking at pickups .
watch out when you hire a motorcycle in pattaya as the old scams of renting you a bike then stealing it back off you .
only hire from a hotel you are staying at or reputable hirage place and carry your own chain or lock if you have not gota good lockup .
if stolen they will want the equivalent of what the bike is worth so be careful .
this is an old scam thats back in vogue again and some police are even involved as in may 2009 a policeman from lumpini branch was arrested stealing bikes as his income was too low.also many books or reg tabians have been copied so be careful buying bikes , take our advice and use auto care or b quik garages as these are the best in thailand .
[ more help on buying and car repairs in thailand ] [ non immigrant visas ] [ lawyer costs & services ] [ visas ] [ re-entry visa ] [ work permits ] [ companies ] [ limited partnerships ] [ tourist visas ] [ residency visa ] [ 1 year visa ] [ thai license ] [ company tax ] [ income tax ] [ company vat ] [ read expats newsboard ] [ visa costs ] [ visa checkpoint emails ] xtra cab ] [ cars ] [ our shipping services ] [ shipping info ] [ uk freight clearance agent ] bangkok highways and expressways : [ bangna highway ] [ pattaya highway7 to nakhon nayok ] [ overhead highwayto bangna ] go to [ truck & bus tyres : recaps ] [ truck & bus tyres : recaps ] [ truck & bus tyres r1 : used no recap ] [ truck & bus tyres : shipping ] [ truck & bus cost & sizes ] more [ charcoal pics ] [ charcoal grades , sizes ] [ charcoal grade 2 , sizes ] [ charcoal shipping ] of privacy and our company will act accordingly .
see faqs eating out and take away 's in kent salem resident finds a love for music and beadwork fri oct 18 , 2013 03 : 27 am edt sen. lee believes he ’ ll be proven right in taking on obamacare thu oct 17 , 2013 9 : 27 pm edt man in court for texting crash that nearly severed woman ’ s leg thu oct 17 , 2013 11 : 27 pm edt hand-written bible collection on display at byu mon oct 7 , 2013 01 : 27 am edt another conference session comes to a close for the lds church sun oct 6 , 2013 11 : 27 pm edt bountiful family fundraising for son ’ s funeral costs sun oct 6 , 2013 7 : 27 pm edt ogden businesses took big hit fri oct 18 , 2013 01 : 27 am edt gps school buses on horizon fri oct 18 , 2013 01 : 27 am edt toyota recalls 803k us vehicles for air bag defect thu oct 17 , 2013 11 : 27 pm edt ipo to give investors a stake in nfl running back thu oct 17 , 2013 11 : 27 pm edt get the lead out : utah asks hunters to change bullets or turn in gut piles fri oct 18 , 2013 03 : 27 am edt park service says it cant reimburse utah for reopening parks thu oct 17 , 2013 11 : 27 pm edt mellor remembered for ’ service and love ’ in cedar city thu oct 17 , 2013 07 : 27 am edt as a cheapskate with an enormous appetite , maximizing value in such matters was critical .
i picked up a job with sun media corp. and did a little freelancing on the side , but the income was not enough to keep up with steadily growing family expenses .
however , i did not get past # 23 on the list because i had too much work on my plate from the top companies .
in bhutan , a bid to turn basketball from a royal sport to a national one they 've emptied out a 757 to take you to exotic lands law service " .
we offer foreigners and expats that little bit we offer all foreigners our free litigation advice service .
if you have a problem then ask us for free .
this is the only service in thailand that offers you for free .
we aim to help expats and save you money. lawyers for overseas compnaies wishing to set up in thailand .
our speaking so you understand what is needed to retain a good accountant .
please email us or go to costs & services ] [ visas ] [ re-entry visa ] [ work [ thailand finance news ] [ pension funds ] [ depression looms ] [ hedge funds ] [ investing fund guidelines ] why you [ do not invest in finance companies ] [ buy gold not shares or invest in finance companies ] [ thai property speculation & sub prime crises ] [ investment property guide ] [ borrowing money ] [ using thai company to hold property ] [ best option for foreigners buying ] if importing into thailand we can assist you for all clearances of your shipment .
before you ask us please note if this is personal items of commercial and if you already have tisi permission to import .
as at october 2010 costs : we are can offer you our clearance in thailand as below .
coffee : is now under quota and you cannot ship out unless you have a license .
our company holds this license & we are selling coffee now in 2010 to any buyers [ exports arabica coffee ] [ back to exporters list ] [ home ] [ back to shipping ] freight flowers , fish etc ] [ shipping world ports of entry ] [ internal transport ] [ shipping motorcycles ] [ bikes to australia packing ] [ pratunam market garment hotels ] [ garment buying help ] [ go [ temporary importing ] [ temporary shipping using a " carnet " ] [ sea personal goods ] [ cert of origin ] [ sourcing goods for you ] [ uk clearing agent ] [ storage in bangkok ] [ shipping to usa ] [ importing cars ] [ containers for sale ] [ shipping terms & abrevs ] [ our yannawa bangkok storage & loading ] [ 40ft used containers for sale ] [ unaccompanied baggage ] [ sending under 45kgs air freight ] [ shipping to wellington nz -stolen goods ] zoning board signs on for uniland project thu oct 17 , 2013 2 : 21 pm edt uptick reported in private-sector jobs in buffalo thu oct 17 , 2013 2 : 21 pm edt dug ’ s dive decides to duck out of winter at waterfront site fri oct 18 , 2013 02 : 21 am edt sales-tax revenue up in ny , lags in southern tier fri oct 18 , 2013 12 : 21 am edt state grant for lakeshore er which is closing thu oct 17 , 2013 8 : 21 pm edt murder suspect has history of run-ins with the law thu oct 17 , 2013 4 : 21 pm edt fidelis care looking to expand in amherst thu oct 17 , 2013 10 : 21 pm edt customers at the hamburg toys r us react to arrest thu oct 17 , 2013 8 : 21 pm edt woman accused of tampering with her infant ’ s food source thu oct 17 , 2013 4 : 21 pm edt north tonawanda to update accessibility to carnegie fri oct 18 , 2013 04 : 22 am edt nt dems roll out platform fri oct 18 , 2013 04 : 22 am edt donor egg pregnancies on the riseabc newspregnancy by egg donation on the rise , but still remains a ' last resort ' for ... university heraldin depth : more women seek pregnancy with donor eggsusa today - by kim paintersee all 80 sourcesrelated pregnancy livescience.comsee realtime coverageoreos as addictive as cocaine , study findsthe hollywood gossip- & lrm ; oct 17 , 2013 & lrm ; we all know oreos are addictive , but a new study suggests that the cookies are as addicting as actual drugs ... at least in the way the brain responds to them.related cocaine sugary , fatty foods may be as addictive as cocainechristian broadcasting networkrat study finds oreo cookies can be as addictive as drugscounsel & healsee all 252 sourcesrelated cocaine national postsee realtime coveragecaimans cause conundrum for rio 2016 olympicsbbc news- & lrm ; 1 hour ago & lrm ; alligator-like caimans have made their home in rio de janeiro , giving olympic organisers a bit of a headache .
up to 6,000 of the large lizards are thought to be living in a huge lagoon system west of the city in brazil.related rio de janeiro strategy in place to contain alligators at rio coursegolf channelthousands of caimans thrive in rio 's urban sprawlwgcl atlantahighly cited : rio 2016 olympic golf course planners say alligators won 't bitebloombergsee all 61 sourcesrelated rio de janeiro october 16 , 2013 as a grenadian living abroad with much interest and concern for the level of pain and hardship facing our nation , i am taking the liberty to share my observations to the attention of all grenadians at home and abroad ; but specifically to our leaders and stakeholders .
october 15 , 2013 i write to you as former vice-president of the grenada football association – a position i resigned from , due to the president ’ s inability to focus on the building of the inheritance of a well oiled football environment left by the interim committee led by former speaker of the house george mc quire .
grenada pm calls for an agenda for growth and transformation eccb celebrates 30 years of monetary and financial stability in the eccu police believe missing roxbury woman and infant may be in new york fri oct 18 , 2013 01 : 15 am edt lawyers to argue lab scandal sentencing fri oct 18 , 2013 05 : 15 am edt budget crisis exposes deepening rift in gop fri oct 18 , 2013 05 : 15 am edt handicapped parking scam fri oct 18 , 2013 01 : 15 am edt the walkoff : mike napolis early offense powers red sox to 4-3 win in game 5 fri oct 18 , 2013 01 : 15 am edt cdc back at work to track the flu fri oct 18 , 2013 03 : 15 am edt attleboro teens thanked by car crash victim fri oct 18 , 2013 01 : 15 am edt man pleads not guilty in fatal haverhill stabbing fri oct 18 , 2013 01 : 15 am edt student says teacher wouldn ’ t let her eat candy corn thu oct 17 , 2013 11 : 15 pm edt primary set for fitchburg council , school seats fri oct 18 , 2013 03 : 15 am edt benefit for leominster resident has goal of $ 3g fri oct 18 , 2013 03 : 15 am edt fitchburg ’ s win was worth the wait thu oct 17 , 2013 9 : 15 pm edt actor ed lauter dead at 74 thu oct 17 , 2013 7 : 15 pm edt red sox 4 , tigers 3 : a win closer fri oct 18 , 2013 01 : 15 am edt cleaners ’ union protests outside genzyme in framingham fri oct 18 , 2013 01 : 15 am edt groton panel discusses success of new fitch ’ s bridge fri oct 18 , 2013 03 : 15 am edt drawing determines sun ’ rolling debate ’ slates thu oct 17 , 2013 5 : 15 pm edt positions for sun ’ s council forum to be drawn at 2 p.m. thu oct 17 , 2013 1 : 15 pm edt john david bergstrom fri oct 18 , 2013 03 : 15 am edt ’ angels ’ knit prosthetic breasts for cancer survivors fri oct 18 , 2013 01 : 15 am edt girls ’ night out -- all about women ’ s health fri oct 18 , 2013 01 : 15 am edt coakley backs breen for city council fri oct 18 , 2013 01 : 15 am edt tax hike vote saturday in norwell fri oct 18 , 2013 05 : 15 am edt the great red sox program war and the battle for supremacy around fenway park fri oct 18 , 2013 05 : 15 am edt waltham real estate bills due thu oct 17 , 2013 11 : 15 am edt " it was easy for me to get behind this as an individual rights issue , and as an economic development opportunity , " said holtzclaw , a republican .
he noted that many craft brewers started out brewing at home .
“ rather than see it as threat , ( craft brewers ) see it as a way for folks who are really serious to leave the hobby realm and move over to the professional realm , " he said .
koch ’ s advice to state lawmakers is to give home brewers the benefit of the doubt while putting reasonable safeguards in place : “ home brewers have an enormous amount of respect for the dignity of beer , so cut them a little slack , ” he said .
“ with the housing market picking up again , ” said ray rasker , a wildfire expert at headwaters economics , a nonpartisan montana-based think tank , “ we ’ re going to see more people building in the fire zones , and the u.s. taxpayers are going to pay for it . ”
burton of the university of colorado doesn ’ t mince words when he talks about responsibility in the wui .
when wildfires threaten homes but not lives , he says a firefighting crew ’ s best option is simple : “ just let it burn . ”
if the facebook pop-up does not appear automatically , please click here to try again.privacy policy | customer centerlive helpminimizecloseneed assistance ?
apologies for retweet of report that rep bill young had passed .
read this , spike thatoctober 17yahoo ! and a bunch of yahoos is the web portal worth much without alibaba ?
and a few closing words about the engineers of the washington shutdown .
rising occupancy and a knack for lucrative deals should pay off nicely for capital senior living .
bicester foodbank has been shortlisted for the lloyds bank community fund 2013 .
for more information on the revised translations , see the usccb 's committee ondivine liturgywebsite.looking for diocese of duluth 's own resources for implementing the roman missal , third edition ?
click on " praying the mass anew " on the left .
jaaa boss lashes out at criticism of jamaica & # 8217 ; s anti-doping programme goj consolidates cash holdings into one account at bojjamaica gleaner 12 : 24 16-oct-13 " venezuela is still example in the fight for a more just world " " we are going through one of the best times of the colombian-venezuelan relationship " map2 ] [ hongkong bus timetables ] [ hongkong bus itinery ] [ hongkongairport bus ] [ hongkong disneyland timetable ] [ guangzhou maps ] [ guangzhou mtr ] [ guangzhou hotels ] [ guangzhou airport ] [ train enter hk visa ] of privacy and our company will act accordingly .
see faqspattaya condo investment scam leaves investors broke in pattaya single minded tourists and ex pat haven boasting some 1600 bars .
it is situated on a 4 km stretch of road along the sea & along the north end are around 96 formally a us military rest stop and recreation from the 60s and 70s it saw a even the nice looking painted artist impression above , one cannot resist the temptation to get in first and buy a condo right on the pattaya beach .
great stories etc .
well it seems theres no condo complex called the royal view talay condominium and the beach remains the same .
did ian turn to embezzling investors ? ?
he owned air king but all these companies have folded we understand and ian is back again enjoying the free money or should we say everyone elses money .
why he did it---well business in thailand is hard and many foreigners who have tried to make it don 't and his pattaya info paper was no match to peter mulhotras pattaya mail or even neils pattaya people .
with no money they trun to the easy way---get it off gullible foreigners who are dumb enough to not check on what they spend in thailand .
as at 2013 is he involved in the www.pattayainfo.com & is he really back in business in pattaya ? ? we know he is in new condo developments .
1 / .
never buy off a plan .
an artists impression is just that ? its not even built .
it does not have sufficient cash to complete without foreigner funds ? no penalty clauses in favour of the buyer if its not finished & no refund 2 / .
is the land really owned by the company--check chanote [ title ] .as those who invested with one richard haughton of harlequin in pattaya --thailand property and media exhibition company ltd . , found out their titles were sold to kasikornbank by haughton to borrow off & they now have no condos nor comeback ? 6 / .
if you give a deposit don 't expect anything back .
do not use paypal , ask for a contract first then get it checked out but please don 't buy off a plan--more and more condos fails as they do not have the cash flow to even start let alopne finish .
pattaya mail that great mag of peter " the indian media mogul " - moulhotra has had his work cut out over the years with the many mags that have circulated in pattaya , but has stood his ground and is still here .
peter is a businessman and a nice guy that knows pattaya inside out and has survived the competition from all sectors . ( which is also regularly available all over thailand & he has also a chiangmai mail ) .
peter being a success as he is has weathered every storm and watches the rest slowly retreat as its not easy publishing in thailand even with the likes of the famous drew noyes the american conman whose pattaya times has shrunk to low lows due to his many foreigner ripoff exploits as portrayed by andrew drummond--the reknown uk crimes & scam reporter .
in fact pattaya mail is the most successful paper to read in pattaya as at 2013 .
ian on the other hand always said his publication pattaya info was multi-language to appeal to many nationalities , and is more of a guide to things thai , with helpful hints , and local news but in fact did not have substance and how he made money beats us hence his turn to being a bigtime property development investment sensation-- ? ? ? .
well , wouldn 't you if the chips are down , you can 't leave the goodlife as youre too old to get a job back in stateside and you read how property developers can get away with it ?
one also needs to boost the bank account to survive the pattaya off season storm and the added expenses like the work permit , visa , taxes living costs and company fees .
was ian up for tax for the magazine & did he have the funds to survive the pattaya highlife rush ? ? ? that he decided to try his hand at property development or was it some other hand telling him to do it .
richard ian silver did disappear with all the money : some say its 20m while others say its 120 m baht so who is right ? ? ? ? some say he 's just taken a vacation & is back in business behind the scenes as at 2013 ?
but why he did it only ian can answer as he 's not a bad sort of guy . not many of the investors have come forward but we would sure like to hear from you fellas so don 't be shy .
maybe ian will read this and feel sorry for you but of course its hard to face the music when one can hide behind a legit thai company--easy to do for the upsuspecting foreigner wanting to buy a condo thats not even built , then scratching his head on how to get his money back .
but we hear he is living the good life some place near the sea and conducting business as usual---yes you got it selling more soon to be started condos in bang saray & jomtien .
we will update you soon april 2013 .
solutions ] [ security protection ] [ security & intelligence reports ] [ pedophilia addressing the nation earlier this month , president kikwete said enactment of the new constitution would not be in the interest of political parties but rather for the good of the people of tanzania .
mp al-huweila presents bill to prohibit usury in all forms kuwaiti pilgrims arrive at mina on way to mount arafat kuwaiti embassy rejects reports of kuwaiti man arrested in us putin invited to attend confab to be hosted by kuwait in nov kuwaiti ambassador to the netherlands hosts luncheon for qatari counterpart you can easily unsubscribe at any time by following the instructions included in every message .
be one of the first to know when a contest is announced on fox16.com.
remember : you can unsubscribe at any time by following the instructions provided in every message .
from the romanesque era to englightment , discover works of art at madrid ...
two football fans win ' once-in-a-lifetime ' chance to see messi in action keeping food on the table and fish in the sea abengoa plans to delist shares in europe after adrs debut messi and puyol return to barcelona in time for ac milan and ... epublished by pressmart [ digital magazine publishing ] bolivia crude oil consumption by year ( thousand barrels per day ) home | about | search | site map | blog | discusssteel picks that are a cut above - barrons.com fred meyer ’ s former top exec takes over as president at kroger thu oct 17 , 2013 6 : 24 pm edt bienvenidos a cover oregon !
new ads target spanish speakers thu oct 17 , 2013 6 : 24 pm edt pols begin jostling for multco positions : bailey joins the fray thu oct 17 , 2013 4 : 24 pm edt a generally ’ softer ’ portland economy thu oct 17 , 2013 4 : 24 pm edt the slants lose trademark appeal , ask , what if ’ rolling stones ’ name was literal ?
thu oct 17 , 2013 4 : 24 pm edt do all those exchange startup bugs really matter ?
what do you think ?
thu oct 17 , 2013 4 : 24 pm edt zillow : portland ’ s top 5 neighborhoods for trick-or-treating thu oct 17 , 2013 4 : 24 pm edt ’ deadliest catch ’ fishery gears up for late start thu oct 17 , 2013 8 : 24 pm edt mayor : paving may not be the answer for all of our gravel roads thu oct 17 , 2013 8 : 24 pm edt suspect killed in the dalles was wanted for questioning in rape case thu oct 17 , 2013 8 : 24 pm edt ’ living room ’ art gets the boot in gresham thu oct 17 , 2013 10 : 24 pm edt ore. man charged with raping teen he met online thu oct 17 , 2013 8 : 24 pm edt portland to pet owners : please scoop poop thu oct 17 , 2013 6 : 24 pm edt armed man in ’ scream ’ mask robs portland barber shop thu oct 17 , 2013 6 : 24 pm edt defense lawyers skewer madoff in fraud trial fri oct 18 , 2013 02 : 24 am edt ’ fifty shades ’ fiasco discussed at studio meeting thu oct 17 , 2013 6 : 24 pm edt larry flynt doesn ’ t want man who shot him executed thu oct 17 , 2013 4 : 24 pm edt tardy fine slapped on late parents fri oct 23 , 2009 12 : 24 pm edt sinking section of eastbank esplanade closed for repairs mon nov 9 , 2009 4 : 24 pm est man arrested in kelso shooting mon oct 7 , 2013 12 : 24 pm edt sw corridor plan stirs up controversy mon oct 7 , 2013 12 : 24 pm edt timbers draw 2-2 with whitecaps mon oct 7 , 2013 10 : 24 am edt ralf scherschmidt has led the oberweis international opportunities fund to index-stomping annualized returns of 23.5 % for the past three years .
you got the nerve to fly my american flag , but coward in the shadow of syria , but have the nerve to fly red , white , and blue .
we are the protectors of israel and we are the world 's police like it or not .... we kick ass and cross of names .... we will make a pot hole out of that hell hole , and deal with the rebels too .
i am true red white and blue .... b easy .
what about the prophecies of nostradamus and the end of the mayan calendar ?
there was talk of 2012 being the end of the world .
here are some bible verses that shed some light on what we can expect and the signs of the end of the world .
and this gospel of the kingdom will be preached in the whole world as a testimony to all nations , and then the end will come . * its funny to me how all of the armchair politicians have so much to say about our president and this government .
syria has used chemical weapons on civilians they need to be dealt with. someone has to have the courage to stand up and take action .
i am proud to have obama as our leader .
the accused pleaded not guilty to the charge and all of them are out on three million bail each .
attorneys : subscribe to the intermountain commercial and receive one free copy of the utah professionals location : halley stands on the brunt ice shelf .
this flows off the antarctic continent into the weddell sea at a rate of 2m per day , breaking off at the edge to form giant icebergs .
measurements are taken of the ice of antarctica beneath , of the air in the troposphere above , of the ozone in the stratosphere above that , and of the plasma in the geospace beyond them all .
no drones stationed in curacao or aruba , says us consulate aruba to host international conference on combating and preventing crime the only way to grasp the impact of the nsa surveillance program is to see it as a wholesale repeal of the fourth amendment .
the only way to grasp the impact of the nsa surveillance program is to see it as a wholesale repeal of the fourth amendment .
how red crabs on christmas island speak for the tropics a topless feminist protestor got more than she bargained for when she stormed a paris fashion week stage and tried to lift a model ’ s skirt .
liverpudlian born hollie-may saker , 18 , punched the femen activist .
“ i knew the scouser in me was bound to come out eventually , ” tweeted saker .
a fun thing to do in -60 ° f cold weather is to throw a pot of boiling water into the air .
often , a solar halo is formed around the sun by the ice crystals in the air .
air of different temperatures refracts light in different ways .
mirages are commonly seen on the horizon in the winter or at the end of winter when the sea-ice has just broken up .
they are a result of temperature differences in the bottom few yards just above the ice or sea surface .
this is the same phenomena responsible for " heat haze " as seen above a road on a very hot day .
ice blink refers to a white glare seen on the underside of low clouds indicating the presence of ice which may be beyond the range of vision .
a corona is a ring of deflected light that surrounds the sun or moon , sometimes forming a colorful disk with the sun or moon at its center .
a fog bow is similar to a rainbow , but without any colors due to the very small size of the water droplets. of privacy and our company will act accordingly .
see faqs " i 'm the luckiest guy in the world and i 'm glad i could stand up to them , " he said .
in addition to his ownership of a professional basketball team , cuban is one of the stars of the popular television show " shark tank " which features financiers analyzing and deciding whether to invest in new products presented by entrepreneurs .
but " the force can have a strong influence on the weak-minded . "
seems you are a supporter of president obama , who is very anti-israel .
even if he did nothing wrong , he 'll be a target and they make something up to get him with ...
" the huffington post " is a registered trademark of thehuffingtonpost.com , inc .
all rights reserved.burundi réalités retour des rivalités ethniques au burundi sur fond de conflits fonciers retour des rivalités ethniques au burundi sur fond de conflits à qui appartient cette terre ?
c 'est la question à laquelle la cntb au burundi doit répondre quand le propriétaire , chassé par la guerre , rentre au c ’ est une épine sur le chemin de la réconciliation au burundi .
la recrudescence des conflits fonciers nés du rapatriement des réfugiés hutus .
durant les années de crise , et au cours des différentes guerres interethniques qu ’ a connues le pays , près de 700 000 burundais hutus ont fui pour se réfugier à l ’ étranger .
depuis 2002 , une grande partie d ’ entre eux a été rapatriée .
mais à leur retour , les terres ou maisons qu ’ ils possédaient étaient occupées .
pour la première fois depuis des années , un quartier de la capitale du burundi a été la scène d ’ émeutes aux relents ethniques à l ’ occasion de la restitution d 'une maison à une famille hutue spoliée il y a 40 ans .
cela s 'est passé le mardi 28 mai .
en charge de la résolution de ces conflits : la commission nationale des terres et autres biens ( cntb ) .
son rôle : régler les la plupart des litiges concernent des familles qui ont fui le pays en 1972 , il y a plus de 40 ans .
sur 30 000 dossiers enregistrés , la cntb revendique 22 000 cas réglés , dont plus de 60 & percnt à l ’ amiable .
mais elle est controversée : une partie de l ’ opinion publique l ’ accuse de raviver les tensions ethniques en privilégiant les rapatriés hutus dans ses décisions , sans tenir compte de l ’ éventuelle bonne foi des nouveaux occupants .
car qu 'ils soient tutsi ou hutus , ils ont parfois acquis leur bien en toute légalité et ne reçoivent aucune le gouvernement semble avoir pris la mesure du malaise et envisagerait une réforme du système .
d ’ autant que jusqu ’ à présent , la commission s 'est concentrée sur les conflits concernant les parcelles de terre , jugés les plus urgents .
mais près de 200 000 autres plaintes sont encore en attente .
elles concernent des maisons , des voitures ou comptes en banque .
un vaste chantier de nature , craignent certains , à saper un processus de réconciliation déjà bien mal en by jack t. ciesielskimandated disclosures about executive pay are inadequate .
by assif shameenovershadowed by its giant neighbor , the island nation 's economy and its stocks should rise so long as the world demands more iphones and ipads .
by shuli renbetter to rely on a stockpicker to pinpoint opportunities right now rather than getting " exposure " via a cap-weighted etf .
by robert milburnthe reagan-era budget director caused an uproar when he attacked the economic strategy of his boss .
he now urges a huge tax on big earners .
lenovo came out of nowhere to become the global leader in pcs .
now it 's got its sights set on samsung and apple in smartphones and tablets .
here is the tweet from cruz that led kessler to go on the attack : argentinaargentineargentinianbain capitalbarack obamaboehnerboliviabudgetcbocfkclintoncnncongresscristina fernandezcristina fernandez kirchnercristina kirchnerdebt ceilingdeficiteconomyedward snowdenelectionemployer mandateemploymententitlementsevo moralesfiscal cliffgang of eight bill hiring incentivehealth careimmigrationinflationinternetjobsla presidentalive-tweetsmainstream media reporting on immigration reformmediamedicaremitt romneyobamaobamacareoccupy wall streetohioonline sales taxowspennsylvaniaphysiciansrepublicansromneyryansequestersocial securityspendingstate governmentsstockssustainable growth ratetaxestaxesthomas sowelltoo much malbectwitterunionswages the nationsee realtime coveragebritish queen meets pakistan schoolgirl malala who survived taliban ... euronews- & lrm ; 50 minutes ago & lrm ; queen elizabeth ii has met the pakistani schoolgirl shot in the head by the taliban .
malala yousafzai presented the monarch with a copy of her new autobiography at a buckingham palace reception in london.related malala yousafzai icc partially excuses kenyatta from trialvoice of americaicc exempts kenyatta from continuous presence at trialreutersfrom kenya : president uhuru kenyatta request for exemption from continuous attendance ... the standard digital newsin depth : could westgate deal a fatal blow to the icc ? bbc newssee all 150 sourcesrelated international criminal court christian science monitorsee realtime coveragebeijing tackles abominable air pollution with a car banchristian science monitor1 hour agowritten bypeter fordas air pollution levels in beijing hovered between “ hazardous ” and “ very unhealthy ” according to the us embassy 's monitoring device on friday , the beijing city government unveiled a new plan to try to get the capital 's air quality under control.beijing plans to reduce traffic and keep air cleaner with driving scheduleauto world newssee all 35 sourcesrelated : beijing thousands of morsi supporters march across egyptjerusalem postegypt 's crackdown on islamists spreads to mosques , charitieskuow news and informationfrom egypt : morsi loyalists return to rabaa , fended off by securityahram onlinesee all 95 sourcesrelated mohamed morsi wall street journalsee realtime coveragepussy riot rocker to be transferred to new prisonwall street journal3 hours agowritten bypaul sonnemember of the female punk band “ pussy riot ” nadezhda tolokonnikova looks out from a holding cell as she attends a court hearing to appeal for parole at the supreme court of mordovia in saransk , july 26 , 2013.pussy riot 's nadezhda tolokonnikova finally gets a prison transferbustle - by katie zavadskipussy riot member to be sent to new russian prisontimehighly cited : winter olympics 2014 : pussy riot join campaign for sochi boycottthe independentsee all 91 sourcesrelated : nadezhda tolokonnikova unless we are strict on malaria control measures the disease is here to stay and , indeed , this will be a sad day for us all .
we shouldn ’ t let it carry the day .
dr congo 's displaced families at risk as food aid dries up feronia inc. is pleased to announce the commencement of palm oil production at its yaligimba plantation in the equateur province of the democratic republic of the congo . ( 10 / 17 / 2013 5 : 49 : 18 pm ) last week , netflix customer service representative mike mears was elated to see a " star trek " -themed conversation between him and a subscriber go incredibly viral .
during a tv interview to discuss the now-famous exchange , hln surprised mears by bringing on william shatner , the actor who played the captain of the starship uss enterprise in the original " star trek " series from the 1960s .
when mears saw shatner in the studio , it looked as if he might faint .
" they told me in advance i 'd be talking to a guy who has the command presence , " shatner said .
" i want to see it , mike . "
hln host nischelle turner asked mears if he was trying to emulate shatner in his conversation .
" maybe a little bit .
a little bit , " mears admitted .
in an online chat conversation that was later posted on reddit , mears and a netflix customer bantered like members of the " star trek " crew trying to fix the ship .
when asked how his bosses at netflix have reacted , mears said , " they 've just been congratulating me and thanking me for doing a good job . "
one of the really nice things about a netflix subscription is that you pay month-by-month ; it 's not like a cell phone contract where you 're locked in for two years and you have to pay an exorbitant fee if you want to get out early or cancel service .
with netflix , you can quit for one month and come back the next : netflix will save your queue and ratings for up to two years so that if you do come back , you don 't really have to start over .
so , if you 're taking a vacation , or studying for the lsats , or going to prison , just cancel your account and save yourself the $ 8 for as long as you need .
or , if you are one of our olympian netflix bashers from above , go ahead and try life without the ' flix for a month or two and see how you do .
your account information will be waiting for you when ( or if ) you return ; and , hey , if you do , now you have plenty of new ways to find the excellent movies and tv shows you might have missed while in exile .
the kid was about to explode !
he couldn 't even speak !
his mind was in warp speed !
but his mouth was stuck in suspended animation !
while recommending proper education to be given to members of the society on understanding the rights of a girl which should be the same as those of boy child .
in addition she said the government should slowly review and repeal unfriendly legislations and instate stern laws for protecting and promoting the rights of a girl in the country .
entirely , the un convention on the right of child , gives a roadmap through which a national , member state can set legal framework for promoting and protection of the rights of a child . © 2013 indexmundi - all rights reservedinterviu | cadran politic considerat o somitate în unele cercuri ale oamenilor de știință , contestat abitir în altele , respectat și adulat de elevii săi , detestat și acuzat fără rețineri de oponenți , e o legedă vie , pe care el însuși o gestionează cu precizie de maestru , astfel încât chiar și cei care nu îl plac se văd nevoiți să recunoască că este cel puțin o figură interesantă .
știe să treacă ...
calea spre „ mecca ” resurselor energetice – strategii , provocări de securitate și demersuri diplomatice ( ii ) și pentru că tocmai am vorbit despre republicile islamice ruse din caucaz … spuneți-ne , considerați că în caucazul de nord a fost o strategie greșită a kremlinului de a transfera o justificare motivată religios și cu implicații globale ( dacă vorbim de războiul împotriva terorismului practicat de grupările radicale ale fundamentalismului islamic ) unui conflict etnic cu rădăcini istorice ?
calea spre « mecca » resurselor energetice – strategii , provocări de securitate și demersuri diplomatice ( i ) vă propunem o interesantă și amănunțită radiografie a regiunii caucaz , un spațiu cu o miză uriașă datorită resurselor energetice , de unde și multitudinea de strategii geopolitice , provocări de securitate și mutări politice și economice vizibile sau discrete care pot scăpa uneori și unui ochi avizat .
interlocutor în acest pelerinaj analitic ne-a fost prof. univ. dr ....
un adevărat român & # 8211 ; interviu cu asr prinţul paul al româniei alteţa sa regală , prinţul paul al româniei este fiu al asr carol mircea al româniei şi al helenei henriette nagavitzine , nepot pe linie paternă al regelui carol al ii-lea al româniei .
este căsătorit cu prinţesa lia şi au împreună un băiat , carol ferdinand , primul descendent regal născut în românia în ultimii 90 de ani .
valea timocului este o zonă în care românii au continuitate încă de la ocupaţia romană interviu cu domnul tiberius puiu tiberius puiu este publicist şi traducător , membru al societăţii române de balcanistică şi slavistică şi al asociaţiei de studii scandinave şi baltice .
este autorul cărţii „ ucraina şi ucrainenii ” în care este prezentată în mod obiectiv istoria ucrainei , precum şi tema holodomorului , marea foamete din 1933 .
a fost distins cu o diplomă de onoare a uniunii scriitorilor din ucraina .... „ venitul unui medic ar trebui să fie de trei ori mai mare decât venitul mediu pe economie “ interviu cu prof. univ. dr mircea cinteză prof. univ. dr .
mircea cinteză , cu o vastă experienţă şi renume în specialitatea cardiologie , este profesor de cardiologie şi medicină internă la catedra de cardiologie şi medicină internă a universităţii de medicină şi farmacie „ carol davila ” , bucureşti ; şeful secţiei de cardiologie a spitalului universitar de urgenţă , bucureşti ; din 1996 este membru al consiliului profesoral ...
usl va lansa un program de microindustrializare interviu cu domnul deputat constantin niţă , vicepreşedinte psd şi preşedintele psd judeţul braşov domnule deputat constantin niţă , credeţi că ar fi oportună reînfiinţarea unui minister pentru imm ?
pentru imm-uri nu este funda ­ men ­ tală existenţa unui minister dedicat , cât mai degrabă existenţa unui cadru legislativ şi fiscal propice dezvoltării mediului de afaceri .
în ultimii ani , acest lucru nu s-a întâmplat , iar statisticile arată o cifră alarmantă în ceea ce priveşte numărul ...
un subiect la ordinea zilei – scutul american antirachetă , care urmează a fi amplasat în europa .
doi interlocutori , cu opinii complementare .
şi un brainstorming , cu luciri de capă şi spadă . „ reducerea cheltuielilor bugetare în detrimentul bugetelor de apărare este o opțiune greșită ” & # 8211 ; norica nicolai „ reducerea cheltuielilor bugetare în detrimentul bugetelor de apărare este o opțiune greșită ” – atenționează europarlamentarul norica nicolai & # 8211 ; vicepreședinte al subcomisiei pentru securitate și apărare din cadrul comisiei pentru afaceri externe a pe , membru al delegației comisiei parlamentare de cooperare ue-rusia - it announces a hot autumn in moscow ?
or is it just an illusion due to electoral strategies very vocal and of course the media accompaniment ? © 2013 cadran politic · rss · designed by theme junkie · powered by wordpress caribbean news now ! : rss feeds our rss feeds are free and we currently use rss 2.0 .
click on the icon of the content category ( ies ) you 're interested in subscribing to , and follow the instructions to add to your news reader or your personal my yahoo ! or my aol page .
june and early july can be the best time to see multiple blue sharks and we start off a bit chilly ( low 60 's ) in june , but warm quite nicely by july .
june is also an excellent time to visit montauk glauca ) , one of the prettiest of the world & # 8217 ; s sharks in the open montauk is sometimes referred to as the fisherman & # 8217 ; s capitol of bluefish and other sport fish abounding in its waters .
in addition quickly made our way to the general location and began releasing a on the immediate area to happily snatch an easy meal .
quickly , we suited up and within a few minutes we had forsaken nibble on our protective cage and at the same time , make a few sharks swam within inches of our cameras , and we could observe up close the nictitating membrane as it would reflexively close and the expedition was a huge success .
as we cruised back into montauk harbor , the sun finally poking through the low overcast , we were thrilled to have shared the ocean with one of its most among the creatures you could see on this type of adventure .
the trips are 8-12 hours long , so come prepared for a full day on the diving begins to cover the procedure and to acclimate divers to the cage if you are not certified .
the cage floats on the surface with a maximum along for the ride to enjoy all the sights and sounds above the surface .
although being in the water and meeting a shark face to face is the idene - the idene was a 120 ' steel hulled fishing trawler sunk as an artificial reef by the state of r.i. in 1991 .
the wreck sits but should only be done by qualified divers .
the top of idene can be reached at in 1939 .
today the wreck is unrecognizable as a ship , but still offers an island lies one of the most interesting dives in new england .
the submarine was depth charged on may 6th , 1945 .
the wreck is a must see for the enterprising deep diver .
though the sub is upright and intact , penetration is possible but should be considered dangerous do to the possibility of decaying wreckage .
the wreck is easy to navigate and a all divers are required to sign a waiver and release ofliability , you will need a lot of weight if using a drysuit. are secured to the inside of the cage .
regulators are attached to anodized aluminum pipe and is fully welded at all seams. into the cages top hatch .
once inside , the hatch is closed and sea turtle is a 36 ' bhm downeast style boat .
she is powered by a expeditions and can be made by contacting us through our participates do not have to be certified to cage dive. mailing list and we will email you if anything changes in our divers to the cage if you are not certified .
the cage floats on the surface with you , as a diver should be able to enter and exit the cages on your own .
example : can you easily climb in and out of a swimming pool without the use of stairs or a ladder ?
you should be in reasonably physically fit frequent access to medical facilities you may not be eligible to if a diver chooses not to go out and the tour was not canceled that constitutes a no show and the cost of the trip is safety of the passengers will be decided by the captain at the dock .
every attempt will be made by the expedition company to reschedule divers in the event the captain cancels the trip due to bad weather and / or unsafe sea dive boat cannot be held responsible for bad weather , if a diver chooses not to go out and the tour was not canceled that by the crew for the duration of the trip .
zero tolerance policy is enforced .
no illegal substances will be permitted on the boat .
a waiver and release of diver on each trip .
the crew will log you in and out of the water and will assist you in any way possible , but you are solely responsible for your recommendations for lodging in the montauk area and lots more ! head lawyer is mr. dhira who is affiliated with pestalozzi gmuer as at 2010 we offer all foreigners our free litigation advice service .
if you have a problem then ask us for free .
this is the only service in thailand that offers you for free .
we aim to help expats and save you money .
he has also worked in regulatory and transactional matters of finance and insurance law and he has litigation and arbitration experience in experience in corporate and commercial law as well as international and as insolvency procedures .
he also has extensive experience in real ll.b. thammasat university .
she is a senior associate and has mostly tajikistan eu and who support of the improvement of pediatric care services ifrc allocates dref funding to respond to small-scale emergencies in kazakhstan and georgia .
wgu is a member of the consortium and the sloan foundation is a member of wgu 's national advisory board .
attention , shoppers : that $ 30 gift card that you plan to use to buy a new shirt ?
it might not be worth $ 30 by the time you redeem it .
in fact , it might not be worth anything at all .
no , we should not let john boehner and his house allies off the hook asiana crash : decision due in death of girl run over by fire ...
boy scouts say leaders who toppled ancient rock in utah are ' reprehensible ' “ one of the students came to me and said , ‘ we know something is happening , but no one is talking about this . ’
i talked to the principal and said there needed to be more dialogue , ” recalled eliason , a republican .
“ having blinders on and not talking about it does not help anyone , ” anielski said in an interview with the sun news of ohio .
the challenge is separating gun safety from the politically fraught issue of gun control , said catherine barber , one of the co-authors of the study . a sizeable proportion of hospital admissions and outpatients in health facilities are due to the disease ..
full story for a long time tanzania was reputed as a haven of peace and tranquility .
as a matter of fact , it is this reputation that has attracted investors and tourists to the country .
it is common for the national stadium in dar es salaam to be filled to capacity whenever young africans and simba meet in either the premiership or any other competitive football match .
what reading should one make of reports about the undermining of efforts to ensure that malaria patients across tanzania pay only as much for one of the drugs of choice as they ought to – and not a cent more ?
there should be no euphemisms or mincing of words here : whoever is behind the practice is engaged in crime and it is not merely a case of running against professional ethics .
the nation is looking on in awe and disbelief as the face-off between the tanzania bus owners association ( taboa ) and the tanzania association for truck owners ( tatoa ) on the one hand and the works ministry on the other takes its toll .
the government is getting increasingly draconian with the media – for reasons we cannot yet tell .
this country is not under a state of emergency .
so why close newspapers , if we may ask ?
wiki iliyopita ilikuwa ni mbaya kwa viwango vyovyote katika tasnia ya habari nchini .
ni wiki ambayo serikali iliendelea kuitumia sheria ya magazeti namba 3 ya mwaka 1976 ambayo inatoa madaraka yasiyohojiwa kwa serikali kufungia vyombo vya habari , kwa kile ambacho kimekuwa kinadaiwa kuwa ni kuendesha uchochezi .
those who stole taxpayers ' trillions should be arrested and prosecuted three years ago on november 19 , 2010 , dar es salaam water supply and sewerage authority ( dawasa ) and dar es salaam water and sewerage corporation ( dawasco ) submitted an application for review and approval of water supply and sewerage tariffs .
a few years ago , president jakaya kikwete called on tanzanians to embark on fish farming in a bid to improve availability of the resource in the country and also to improve their incomes .
how well informed and prepared are tanzanians in donating blood ?
the fifth round of the league was concluded yesterday but the major highlight so far has been violence that has to a great extent tarnished the unfolding season .
the aim is to protect the health of consumers , who have become the target of all sorts of desperate sellers , out to make a quick buck at whatever cost .
youth power is a word we have heard uttered often , but sadly it is mainly in the context of the politics of competition .
our good government is said to have cautioned our parliamentary representatives sitting in dodoma now against putting pressure on it to name drug kingpins because some of them are on the list .
to the government it is their intricate duty while to the companies it is a choice of commitment to social responsibility .
on monday , mali , ’ a country wracked by a rebellion , a coup and an islamic insurgency ’ held a democratic election in an effort to stabilise the country .
but in and of itself , an election does not secure a nation ’ s stability .
president jakaya kikwete on friday silenced war mongers who took advantage of the recent ’ minor ’ diplomatic tension between rwanda and tanzania to campaign for a war to further personal interests .
tanzania is on the verge of enforcing a law guarantee the citizenry the right to legal representation at no obligation to the beneficiaries .
chinese ambassador to tanzania dr lu youqing has a point we cannot ignore : the need to involve big companies operating in the country ’ s war against poverty .
the dar es salaam water and sewerage authority ( dawasa ) has failed to supply water to the residents of dar es salaam , the country ’ s commercial capital and a home to about 5 million people .
as many will recall , just a couple of years or so ago , cleric-turned-herbalist ’ babu samunge ’ of loliondo fame came up with a drink he said was a surefire cure for the disease .
the dar es salaam water and sewerage corporation ( dawasco ) is up in arms over a news story published in this paper only days ago suggesting that there is a hopelessly erratic supply of tap water in parts of one of the city ’ s suburbs , a densely populated one at that , and that the problem has prevailed for quite some time now .
tanzania has a long way to go before it can really make noticeable headway in soccer at the international – indeed , even regional – stage .
suggesting or believing to the contrary would be foolhardy .
get your daily dosage of cartoons from kabwela , the flexibles and dogo join td ameritrade and trade free for 60 days and get up to $ 600 note : offers may be valid in the us only .
the information and links on this page are provided for your convenience only .
barron 's is not a registered broker-dealer and does not endorse or recommend the services of any brokerage company .
the information and services that can be accessed through these links are provided by the individual brokerage companies , not barron 's .
the brokerage company you select is solely responsible for its services to you , the user .
barron 's shall not be liable for any damages or costs of any type arising out of or in any way connected with your use of a brokerage company 's services .
two sources of danger as well as opportunity in the market for closed-end funds are ( 1 ) investors ' propensity to put too much trust in other investors , and ( 2 ) their propensity to put too much trust in fund manager .
is gold a good or a financial asset ?
india 's deficit looks a lot better if latter new s & p all time high , but the tweaked version 's far higher mgic investment ( mtg ) was not to supposed to turn a profit during the quarter .
if the analysts were right , the mortgage insurer 's second-quarter profit was supposed to be a blip and mgic would return to its money-losing ways .
up and down wall streetheed the creditors more than the credit raters october 17by jack houghwall street cheered the deal to reopen the government .
but will investors cheer earnings ?
what to buy and avoid .
sign up for the safe checking in the electronic age e-mail list to receive our newsletter .
imprisoned marafa hamidou yaya marafa and iya mohammed iya have cast a long shadow over the ruling rdpc in the lead-up to cameroon ’ s parliamentary elections . ( ... )
that is why this incident is an illustration of the merits of open markets , that the maker of that vaccine be able to produce it here or sell it directly from europe or elsewhere if he so wishes , but the quality of the produce , as well as the quality of supervision and inspection , are best performed in a competitive context .
chicken flu vaccines are thus likely to be in shortage and thus rise in price by backdoor sales , as officials economize on raw materials to manufacture own drugs , and then start economizing on key components in order to sell more of the fake produce .
if you are interested in being a jc for camp survive you must have completed 10th grade .
it also helps if you attended camp survive in the past , but it is not a requirement .
to help defray the cost of your stay we askjcs to pay $ 65.clickhere for an application letter andform to become a jc ! clickhere for your jc permission form have you got a story ?
our comprehensive contacts list below en funcionamiento nuevo puente en boca de uchireel puente anterior colapsó el pasado 8 de octubre por exceso de peso .
unas horas después fue habilitada una trocha , lugar donde se prevee la construcción de un nuevo ... 262 familias sucrenses reciben las llaves de sus viviendas este vierneshasta la fecha se han edificado 11.500 viviendas en la entidad y se prevé la construcción de 7.000 más , para alcanzar la meta de 19.000 viviendas a finales de 2013plan república desplegados en aragua por simulacro de votaciónla escuela nacional bolivariana felipe guevara rojas , la unidad educativa nacional creación campo alegre y la escuela básica estadal armando reverón son los centros de ...
262 familias sucrenses reciben las llaves de sus viviendas este viernes ejército bolivariano repotenciará 300 tanques blindados con mano de obra venezolana en el centro de mantenimiento de blindados del ejército , ubicado en el fuerte paramacay , donde funciona la 41 brigada blindada de valencia , se repotenciarán 300 tanques blindados de vieja data , como parte de los proyectos de la misión negro primero habilitarán en táchira 31 centros de votación en simulacro de este domingo bladimir pérez , director de la ore-táchira , resaltó que se habilitará un centro de votación por cada municipio , mientras que en la ciudad capital , san cristóbal , funcionarán dos centros piloto : el grupo escolar carlos rangel lamus y la escuela nacional bolivariana bustamante de las 251 armas , 180 las decomisó el cuerpo de investigaciones científicas , penales y criminalísticas ( cicpc ) , 44 la policía del estado monagas , 18 polimaturín , 4 la policía del municipio piar , 4 la guardia nacional bolivariana ( gnb ) y 1 la 32 brigada caribes gobernadora entregó viviendas en barrio el guarataro ii de tinaquillo la mandataria visitó esta populosa barriada acompañada de luis yoyotte , candidato del gran polo patriótico a la alcaldía de esta jurisdicción , así como de nathaly peña , presidenta de indhur y luis santamaría , director del poder popular para las comunas y movimientos sociales entregadas 100 canaimitas y colección bicentenario a estudiantes de san carlos policía de aragua detiene en maracay a sujetos vinculados con robo de quintas ley de seguridad alimentaria en zulia prevé la figura de defensores del poder popular rehabilitación de 40 kilómetros de la troncal 9 presenta 75 % de avance of privacy and our company will act accordingly .
see faqs this is kent | profile for sevenoaks chronicle | sevenoaks chronicle chronicle oaks fail to stay dry but keep out the tries the organisation internationale de la francophonie ( oif ) is to pull out all the stops to supervise the presidential election in madagascar on 25 october , even though the country was ( ... )
the outgoing minister of finance and malgasy presidential candidate hery rajaonarimampianina ( ... )
a full week of violent riots in several towns throughout the country against the reduction in subsidies to oil products demanded by the imf at the end of september was all that was needed to smash to smithereens the illusion of a united regime in sudan . ( ... )
new finds by oil companies in sudan have been few and far between but star oil seems to be pulling it off . ( ... )
turf wars at the top in sudan ’ s oil sector tend to result in a lot of quick turnover ( ... )
former oil adviser to nigerian presidents olusegun obasanjo , umaru yar ’ adua and ( ... )
replaced as chief of sudapet in november , salah wahbi now serves as an oil councillor ( ... )
press roomtop storiesuse our contentjournalists in troublepress releasesrfe / rl expertscontact us aboutmission statementmanagement / governancehistory / archivesinternshipshavel fellowshipvisit rfe / rlfast facts & faqoff micthe rundown saint vincent and the grenadines crude oil consumption by year business incubators and accelerators on rise to support area entrepreneurs restaurants and plumbers to vets in your area .
it 's all here , decided you 'd like a pet , or need a local vet for the pet you we also have pet of the month !
win a 3kg bag of cat or looking for a place to eat or a takeaway meal ?
use tasty to search for the best food in kent ...
follow our two view listings for all age groups to help you find the best & ldquo ; willed by god in the very act of creation , marriage and the family are interiorly ordained to fulfillment in christ and have need of his graces in order to be healed from the wounds of sin and restored to their ’ beginning , ’ that is , to full understanding and the full realization of god ’ s plan . & rdquo ; ( john paul ii , familiaris consortio # 3 ) an initiative of the united states conference of catholic bishops hildenborough afc and metrogas played out an entertaining 1-1 draw on saturday.the hosts started on the front foot when a metrogas forward ...
safe environment > charter for theprotection of children and young peopleclick here to view the charter between the lakes and pines , the castle is the perfect place to have fun , think about who god is and what effect he has in your life .
jesus calls everyone to follow him .
come and see if he is calling you to follow him as a priest. machines or photo studios at the new airport in bangkok so on a stormy thursday morning , a young woman who had been furloughed by the shutdown approached me on the second day of our faithful filibuster .
angela had come to observe , but then joined us to read .
i was so encouraged by her willingness to join us , but didn 't realize that god used us to encourage her : i thought i was walking over to observe something wonderfully holy , but i had no idea that god was going to use to this to encourage me .
being asked to step to a podium and read the word of god a day after i was told it wasn 't my place brought me to tears .
we serve a god who has put passion in the hearts of all of his children .
if we silence even one of those voices we are missing out on a precious piece of god 's redemptive plan for this side of eden .
and finally , one of sojourners ' own interns , who participated in the filibuster almost daily , reminded me today why it is that we do this : la circoncision est devenue à la mode au rwanda surtout chez les jeunes qui veulent limiter les risques d 'infection au vih et faire comme leurs voisins .
la demande dépasse largement les capacités d 'intervention gratuite du ministère de la santé .
mais tous les hommes ne sont pas conscients que se faire opérer ne " nous sommes toujours aux aguets , à l ’ écoute de la radio et des communiqués du secteur administratif de rilima sur la prochaine séance promotionnelle de circoncision .
les élèves sont déterminés plus que jamais à se faire circoncire " , atteste kamanzi , jeune élève du groupe scolaire de rilima à bugesera à l ’ est du rwanda .
" l ’ opération est gratuite .
le ministère de la santé ( minisante ) envoie du personnel qualifié dans les provinces .
chaque entité administrative à son tour .
mais les demandes restent trop fortes et par conséquent , non servies .
certains jeunes et adultes vont dans les provinces voisines " , atteste françois mutijima , un élève qui avait sollicité , au mois de janvier dernier , le centre de santé de kabutare , province du sud pour se faire opérer .
cette forte demande est due à la grande campagne de prévention contre les maladies sexuellement transmissibles dont le vih / sida lancée par le gouvernement rwandais en 2010 .
selon le secrétaire exécutif du secteur rilima , gaspard gasirabo , les agents du minisante viennent , le plus souvent , jeudi , jour du marché de rilima mobiliser les jeunes et adultes mâles à faire cette opération sans danger qui aurait de nombreux avantages .
il s 'agit simplement de couper le prépuce , un repli de la peau qui recouvre une partie de l 'organe génital des en effet , selon des études effectuées par oms et onusida , la circoncision diviserait par deux les risques d ’ infection par le virus du sida ( vih ) .
cette pratique pourrait ainsi éviter deux millions de contaminations et 300 000 morts dans les dix prochaines années en afrique sub-saharienne .
" cette forte campagne a rendu plus sensibles les jeunes élèves .
ils sollicitent sans cesse la prochaine date d ’ arrivée du personnel médical du minisante pour bénéficier du service gratuit de circoncision " , note gaspard .
jusqu 'à présent cette opération était payante et beaucoup se faisaient opérer par des tradi-praticiens sans mais cet engouement est aussi très risqué car il est souvent lié à une fausse interprétation du message .
beaucoup de jeunes garçons ou d 'hommes pensent qu 'une fois opérés ils n 'ont plus besoin d 'utiliser des préservatifs pour se protéger du vih .
ce qui est totalement erroné .
la prévention reste tout autant nécessaire pour éviter d 'attraper les mst que ce soit du côté des hommes comme de celui des femmes qui peuvent se faire infecter par des hommes circoncis .
mais chez les jeunes , la circoncision est devenue " à la mode " .
ils ont découvert en regardant films ou photos sur internet que dans les pays voisins comme la rdc et l 'ouganda , c 'était souvent une coutume et pas l 'apanage des seuls musulmans .
pour eux , outre le fait de les protéger , c 'est aussi une marque gare donc à celui qui ne suit pas la mode .
" j ’ ai décidé de payer 50 000 frw ( 80 & dollar ; ) pour être circoncis .
j ’ en avais marre des injures de mes collègues élèves .
on me considérait tantôt comme un vaurien , tantôt comme un rustique ( kafiri ) et tantôt comme une personne munie d ’ une bouteille ( allusion au sexe masculin incirconcis ) " , témoignent aussi bien françois mutijima que ses trois camarades au marché de rilima .
" la culture rwandaise tolère encore les incirconcis , mais dans les quartiers , ils sont des fois mal vus .
plus grave encore dans les les filles et les femmes ont aussi acquis une certaine considération à l ’ égard des circoncis jusqu 'à présent peu nombreux dans le pays .
pour mme kanyange , mère de trois enfants , bien que le coût de la circoncision soit élevé , elle revêt des avantages incontournables .
" la circoncision assure la propreté , elle est une opération chirurgicale esthétique pour les hommes " , estime-t-elle .
c 'est pourquoi , ils souhaiteraient que cette opération soit couverte par la mutuelle de santé .
mais pour andrew makaka , ancien directeur de la mutuelle de santé au niveau national , " la circoncision est perçue dans le contexte de couverts par la mutuelle de santé .
en plus de cela , les statistiques du dernier recensement général de la population , ont montré que plus d ’ un million cinq penndot using motorists as political pawns ?
thu oct 17 , 2013 9 : 24 pm edt hospitals work together to target region ’ s ills thu oct 17 , 2013 9 : 24 pm edt elder care : the ins and outs of medigap policies thu oct 17 , 2013 9 : 24 pm edt man wanted for indecent exposure in palmyra wore a t-shirt , sneakers and little else , police say thu oct 17 , 2013 11 : 24 pm edt groundbreaking scheduled for apartment complex in hummelstown thu oct 17 , 2013 11 : 24 pm edt police on the scene of a police incident in west manheim township fri oct 18 , 2013 01 : 24 am edt man jailed for allegedly repeatedly raping his girlfriend thu oct 17 , 2013 9 : 24 pm edt ashcombe ’ s gives york county boy a new pumpkin thu oct 17 , 2013 9 : 24 pm edt u.s. senator pat toomey says debt must be reined in thu oct 17 , 2013 11 : 24 pm edt lititz couple who lost son to cancer reach out to others thu oct 17 , 2013 5 : 24 pm edt the modern art of apologizing thu oct 17 , 2013 3 : 24 pm edt ceo behind 10pm email curfew wants to change how we work thu oct 17 , 2013 3 : 24 pm edt montco looks to create a 30-year plan thu oct 17 , 2013 3 : 24 pm edt src spares selling art collection worth up to 900g fri oct 18 , 2013 05 : 24 am edt lawsuit : cops broke neighbor ’ s arm fri oct 18 , 2013 05 : 24 am edt ppa stepping up scooter enforcement fri oct 18 , 2013 05 : 24 am edt second suit opens new front in inquirer owners ’ feud fri oct 18 , 2013 03 : 24 am edt montco votes to privatize parkhouse fri oct 18 , 2013 03 : 24 am edt alumni chip in for new gym at delco high school fri oct 18 , 2013 05 : 24 am edt butterfly sky app fri oct 18 , 2013 03 : 24 am edt dui doesnt mean drunk driving fri oct 18 , 2013 01 : 24 am edt 2 shot , 1 dead , but who pulled the trigger ?
fri oct 18 , 2013 05 : 24 am edt officer : undercurrent of discrimination , thugism in dept . thu oct 17 , 2013 11 : 24 pm edt are atlantic city police out of con thu oct 17 , 2013 9 : 24 pm edt bright and blustery today fri oct 18 , 2013 05 : 24 am edt ppg eyes acquisitions thu oct 17 , 2013 7 : 24 pm edt showclix has a new ceo , a new product thu oct 17 , 2013 3 : 24 pm edt government ’ s open but problems remain thu oct 17 , 2013 3 : 24 pm edt new $ 50m csx plan to ripple through the rocks thu oct 17 , 2013 3 : 24 pm edt four pittsburgh-area hospitals try out new cardiac stents in trial thu oct 17 , 2013 1 : 24 pm edt price is key for small group insurance thu oct 17 , 2013 1 : 24 pm edt clayton ’ s orchestrion pipes up fri oct 18 , 2013 01 : 24 am edt charleroi man faces trial for car theft fri oct 18 , 2013 01 : 24 am edt new prison wont affect fayette airport fri oct 18 , 2013 01 : 24 am edt trafford man accused of breaking son ’ s arm , ankles thu oct 17 , 2013 11 : 24 pm edt man shot in back while driving in uniontown thu oct 17 , 2013 11 : 24 pm edt feds in pittsburgh get first conviction for child sex trafficking thu oct 17 , 2013 7 : 24 pm edt cdc back at work to track the flu fri oct 18 , 2013 03 : 24 am edt fire to old photography studio in aliquippa forces neighbors to evacuate thu oct 17 , 2013 11 : 24 pm edt e-zpass tag stolen in chestnuthill township fri oct 18 , 2013 01 : 24 am edt wallenpaupack school district holds ’ active shooter drill ’ fri oct 18 , 2013 01 : 24 am edt stroudsburg school board rolls out dough for new buses fri oct 18 , 2013 01 : 24 am edt abeloff auction in stroud township goes global fri oct 18 , 2013 01 : 24 am edt arrest made in schuylkill county slashing mon jul 23 , 2012 11 : 24 am edt nolan ryan retiring as ceo of rangers fri oct 18 , 2013 03 : 24 am edt celebrating the seniors fri oct 18 , 2013 03 : 24 am edt usa confirm two teams for coral coast sevens in fiji in november pi govts called to reiterate human costs of nuclear weapons have your lawyer not theres look at the contract and advise you !
remember you need to be able to get your property out when you want or change the status as well as not incurring unusual costs ? ? ? ? & also rmember a company can be here today and gone tomorrow as well so alls these facts are worth considering .
to change the land status a fee you may incur may be high but again ask your legal adviser .
the courts slapped down new york city mayor bloomberg ’ s ban on big gulp sugary drinks , so he took his campaign south of the border govt reviewing ict policy to curb cyber crime na waryoba yankami prof makungu said ict fraud is the major area of revenue leakage for telecom operators all over the world and tanzania is no exception .
the joy of being a priest : following the cure of ars by christoph cardinal schoenbornmany are called : rediscovering the glory of the priesthood by dr. scott hahnthe grace of ars : reflections on the life and spirituality of st. john vianneyby fr .
frederick millersharing christ 's priesthood : a bible study for catholics by mike aquilinathe cure d 'ars : st. jean-marie-baptiste vianney by abbe francois trochusermons of the cure of ars presbyterorum ordinis ( decree on the ministry and life of priests ) perfectae caritatis ( decree on the adaptation and renewal of religious life washington postsee realtime coveragerecipe for gridlock brews in san francisco bay area as bus workers also ... washington post- & lrm ; oct 15 , 2013 & lrm ; oakland , calif . - a recipe for gridlock was brewing in the san francisco bay area as two of the region 's major transit agencies teetered on the brink of commute-crippling strikes.related bay area rapid transit while all these efforts may be focusing on what is believed to be the root cause of the problem , they could come to little effect if nothing is done to rein in traders and other people out to make a fortune out of the misery of gullible members of the public .
pe o piata mass-media , în care multi se declara a fi apolitici si echidistanti , noi ne asumam prin titlul revistei caracterul politic al acestei publicatii .
din punctul nostru de vedere , nu exista nimic în afara dimensiunii politice .
politica înseamna pu-tere .
politica o întâlnim în interiorul statului ca forma de organizare a puterii si în orice relaţie umana ca forma de dominare şi supunere .
de la banala deţinere a telecomenzii în cadrul unei familii , care sugerează în acelaşi timp controlul si puterea decizionala , pâna la raportul dintre presedinte si premier , totul a devenit politic în societatea de astazi .
apolitismul nu înseamna neimplicare politica , iar cei care se declara apolitici nu fac altceva decât sa creeze iluzia echidistantei .
pasivitatea politica poate însemna atât dezinteres manifestat fata de activitatea politica cât si refuzul constient al partizanatului politic .
contrar interpretarilor date sondajelor de opinie , apolitismul manifestat la noi nu este unul al lipsei de interes , ci unul determinat de neîncredere , generat de prea multe dezamagiri . românii , în general , sunt fascinati de scena politica , însa sanctioneaza prin indiferenta ( absenteism electoral ) personajele politice .
desi este iluzorie cre-dinta ca cetateanul poate participa direct la luarea deciziilor politice , el este parte a politicii si reprezinta garantia ei .
tocmai de aceea , consideram ca indiferenta politica devine periculoasa daca nu este dublata de o informare reala si permanenta .
informatia bruta , preluata fara filtru si analiza poate deveni un inamic , te poate transforma în victima a manipularii si apoi în masa usor manevrabila .
ideea aparitiei revistei cadran politic a fost aceea de a oferi puncte de vedere si analize pertinente ale evenimentelor si proceselor politice interne si internationale , într-un moment în care nevoia de clarificari este mai mare ca oricând .
echipa redactionala nu-si doreste sa va furnizeze aceste certitudini , ci doar informatii si posibile grile de interpretare , construite pe baze stiintifice , astfel încât fiecare dintre noi sa capete o întelegere proprie asupra evenimetelor politice si sociale .
autorii materialelor pe care vi le propunem în paginile acestei publicatii sunt specialisti în stiinte sociale , mass-media si oameni de cultura ale caror puncte de vedere sunt importante pentru a oferi o imagine de ansamblu asupra lumii de astazi .
pentru ca fiecare dintre noi are propriile atitudini si valori , nu putem sa afirmam ca fiecare articol în parte va fi deplin neutru sau impartial .
putem afirma , fara teama de a gresi , ca revista este independenta din punct de vedere politic , ca orice opinie îsi va gasi locul în paginile ei , fie ea de dreapta sau de stânga .
suntem non-partizani , fara a fi apolitici .
promisiunea pe care o facem acum , la început de drum , cititorilor nostri este una de seriozitate si respect pentru cuvântul scris si mai ales pentru cei care , dorind o panorama a vietii politice , dincolo de paginile de scandal , vor deveni partenerii nostri de dialog .
why expecting consensus in new constitution wishful thinking na correspondent tanzania has suffered in the hands of egocentric and hypocritical political leadership and time has come for them to shape their own destiny .
it is true that members of parliament are people ’ s representatives but they cannot allow perpetuating injustice by denying tanzanians new constitutions .
it is not surprising that top government officials are reluctant to let go of their fuel guzzling machine as per the finance minister ’ s directions , this in spite of millions of tanzanians going to bed angry .
our leaders need to assess the country ’ s standard of living not by how well the members of the parliaments are paid but according to where and the majority of tanzanians are living .
it is important all stakeholders sit together and forge the way forward .
cdc back at work to track the flu fri oct 18 , 2013 03 : 14 am edt beef with ’ rief : what can the saints improve on during the bye week ?
thu oct 17 , 2013 7 : 14 pm edt man paddles across lake to spread team gleason message fri oct 18 , 2013 01 : 14 am edt new joy global ceo doheny has milwaukee roots fri oct 18 , 2013 06 : 20 am edt brothers who revived little switzerland to buy ski hill ’ s chalet thu oct 17 , 2013 6 : 20 pm edt ziegler lotsoff to be acquired by stifel thu oct 17 , 2013 4 : 20 pm edt sendik ’ s on downer now under nehrings management thu oct 17 , 2013 4 : 20 pm edt man testifies that fatal o ’ donnell accident devastated his family , haunts him still wed oct 16 , 2013 6 : 20 pm edt uw-stout to unveil memorial to school ’ s military deaths wed oct 16 , 2013 08 : 20 am edt children released in appleton standoff wed oct 16 , 2013 12 : 20 am edt appleton police , man in standoff tue oct 15 , 2013 10 : 20 pm edt crash kills motorcyclist in new berlin fri oct 11 , 2013 12 : 20 pm edt 2 men try to rob brookfield jewelry store wed oct 2 , 2013 10 : 20 pm edt group opposes brookfield dump site , officials say it ’ s not a dump fri oct 18 , 2013 12 : 20 am edt local reaction to goverment back in business thu oct 17 , 2013 8 : 20 pm edt body of racine county jane doe exhumed thu oct 17 , 2013 6 : 20 pm edt communiqué of the sixth meeting of sudan-south sudan consultative forum © 2013 indexmundi - all rights reservedvitrina cu cărți | cadran politic în data de 15 decembrie a.c. la academia română a avut loc festivitatea de acordare premiilor pentru cele mai bune cărţi publicate în anul 2009 .
colegei nostre virginia mircea i-a fost decernat din partea secţiei de filosofie premiul „ vasile conta ” pentru cartea „ islamul şi soarta lumii .
fundamentalismul islamic ca ideologie politică ” .
prima parte a volumului intitulat „ o eliberare dificilă ” ne arată că în primele momente după căderea regimurilor comuniste în europa de est , numeroşi analişti au impus termenul „ tranziţie ” ca şi cum punctul de plecare şi cel de sosire ar fi fost perfect cunoscute .
aceste borne simbolice erau întunecate ...
terorismul este o plagă .
poate fi inclus în maladiile cronice ale omenirii , o catastrofă de mărimea celor naturale , dar făcut de mâna oamenilor , la fel ca şi războiul .
ştiri despre manifestările teroriste sunt zilnic .
atentate cu bombe , autori invizibili şi victime nevinovate .
maladia e veche şi pare că nu se dezlipeşte de om de-a lungul istoriei sale .
nu erau raidurile ...
tags : noua dimensiune a terorismului international , virginia mircea , vitrina cu cărți în istoriografia română , există două filoane preţioase ale cercetărilor privind europa de sud-est .
cel dintâi , are la origine crearea , în 1913 , la bucureşti , a institutului de studii sud-est europene , de către nicolae iorga , gheorghe munteanu-murgoci şi vasile pârvan .
cel de-al doilea , institutul de studii şi cercetări balcanice , fondat în 1938 , la bucureşti , de victor papacostea ....
cartea “ razboiul secret din anul 1989 “ cerceteaza o tema ce apartine celei mai recente istorii ( 1989-1991 ) din romania dar si din celelal te tari foste socialiste din europa , inclusiv din fosta uniune sovietica .
revolutia din decembrie  89 : pacatul originar , sacrificiul fondator este prima carte dintr-o serie de sapte volume dedicate ultimelor doua decenii din istoria româniei .  nu am pretentia ca sunt detinatorul unui adevar politic , juridic sau istoric incontestabil , si sunt gata sa discut si sa accept orice documente , fapte sau marturii care pot lumina mai bine sau chiar altfel realitatea .
educatia ...
tags : emil constantinescu , pacatul originar , revolutia din decembrie  89 , sacrificiul fondator , vitrina cu cărți & # 8220 ; alteţa sa regală prinţul el hassan bin talal este o personalitate prezentă în toate areopagurile politice , filosofice sau teologice unde se discută soarta globală a lumii . [ … ] nu portretul iordanianului sau al arabului este ales de autor ca titlu al lucrării sale .
este un portret mai larg care le cuprinde pe precedentele : este acela al mahomedanului .
acesta trebuie cunoscut în forma ...
tags : a fi musulman , alteţa sa regală prinţul el hassan bin talal , democratie , el hassan bin talal , islam , pace , vitrina cu cărți cartea dăruită de autor nu are aproape nimic literar , este o prezentare de fapte şi personaje reale din timpul revoluţiei din decembrie 1989 , care se constituie într-o mărturie şocantă ce multor lideri politici postdecembrişti nu le convine , dar nu numai atât , au încercat cu asiduitate să creeze în jurul autorului o legendă potrivit căreia informaţiile publicate nu pot fi credibile ... © 2011 cadran politic · rss · designed by theme junkie · powered by wordpress billboard in harrison causes controversy - fox16.com little rock , ar where did you get that info hotirons . give us the site so we can read that for ourselves . i think it came only out of your head . i bet all he did was put it up . i don 't think he contcted anyone .
you say he did prove it . now back to my hog knuckles and rice . i 'm sure glad a bunch of you don 't live in humnoke .
site map | terms of use | privacy statement | copyright & trademark notice | eeo kentonline home an investigation 's been launched after a man was killed when he was struck by a rubbish lorry .
a motorcyclist was taken to hospital after a crash with a car this afternoon .
crushed under 13-ton digger on second day of new job that 's scho business : i 'll do my best for the club i got brought in to work for gillingham and to do my best for them , and that doesn ’ t change .
now i am pretty sure she is the most organized editor in the business .
she is a seasoned pro with the english language yet doesn & # 8217 ; t seem to know the meaning of procrastination .
vincentians to arrive in guyana to begin studies in agriculture letter : is ralph gonsalves the prime minister of only the ulp and its followers ?
st vincent and the grenadines hosts regional conference on reparations « previousthe end of the neo-liberal age , or the return to the left next usl va lansa un program de microindustrializare interviu cu domnul deputat constantin niţă , vicepreşedinte psd şi preşedintele psd judeţul braşov © 2012 cadran politic · rss · designed by theme junkie · powered by wordpress : : : . : : : . : : : welcome to apanews.net : tv , news , photos online : [ add my company ] insert your pic of your burundi : rencontre entre pouvoir et opposition sur la question du code électoral burundi : rencontre entre pouvoir et opposition sur la question du code au burundi , alors que l ’ opposition avait boycotté les élections générales de 2010 , les nations unies ont organisé mi-mars les premières discussions pouvoir-opposition en vue d ’ organiser en 2015 des élections libres et apaisées .
ce qui avait débouché sur la signature d ’ une feuille de route .
les organisateurs veulent transformer l ’ essai en organisant une nouvelle rencontre entre les acteurs politiques burundais sur la question du code électoral dès aujourd ’ hui , mais ça nous n ’ attendons rien de la rencontre de kayanza .
l 'opposition burundaise toute la classe politique burundaise va se retrouver une nouvelle fois autour d ’ une table de discussions .
et pour & rdquo ; favoriser & bdquo ; la concentration des participants , cet atelier se tiendra dans le cadre champêtre de kayanza , dans le pendant trois jours , pouvoir et opposition vont tenter de nettoyer le code électoral burundais , un texte très lacunaire selon l ’ avis de toutes les parties .
d ’ ores et déjà , les différents protagonistes se sont mis d ’ accord sur bon nombre également s ’ accorder sur la question du règlement du contentieux électoral ou mais les nuages s ’ accumulent déjà au-dessus de cette rencontre .
l ’ opposition accuse le pouvoir burundais d ’ avoir uniquement distribué le document de travail aux partis politiques qui lui sont proches , mais aussi de continuer à empêcher les réunions de l ’ opposition en violation de la feuille de route signée en mars & rdquo ; nous n ’ attendons rien de la rencontre de kayanza , mais nous y serons quand verwenden sie ein mobiles gerät ?
huffpost mobile finden sie unter m.huffingtonpost.com ..
angela merkel will sie nicht , würde in einer großen koalition aber als soziale kanzlerin wahrgenommen werden ...
wird eine liberalisierung staatlicher drogenpolitik das organisierte verbrechen ausrotten ?
gewiss nicht .
aber genauso wenig wird sie den untergang des abendlandes einläuten , wie von so vielen befürchtet .
eine entkriminalisierung von drogenbesitz und konsum , wie in einzelnen us-bundesstaaten und in portugal bereits praktiziert , setzt stattdessen enorme ressourcen frei .
der begriff finanzielle repression bedeutet auf deutsch sinngemäß auch „ schleichender sparverlust " .
er bezeichnet eine derartige staatliche beeinflussung der zinssätze , dass sparer einen schleichenden verlust zugunsten des staates erleiden .
bei einer niedrigzinspolitik der zentralbank können private anleger bei banken keine höheren zinsen für ihre geldanlagen verlan-gen , weil sich die banken billiger über die zentralbank refinanzieren können .
er sollte sich immer auch intensiv über die sich ändernden bedingungen an den märkten informieren , um immer rechtzeitig am ball zu sein und eventuell die richtung neu zu bestimmen .
am vortag kam ich mit dem team zusammen .
das war ein schöner moment : die leidenschaft aller für unser „ produkt " war im raum deutlich spürbar .
nicholas aus new york sagte , er habe schon mehrere launches erlebt , auch in südeuropa .
aber das hier sei doch schon etwas besonderes .
aber manchmal ist mehr einfach auch mehr und das haben die beiden wahlberliner auch verstanden .
die konferenz an sich ist sehr lohnenswert , denn sie bietet sehr viele networkingmöglichkeiten für blogger sowie für tourismusindustrievertreter .
so kann man sich z.b. im vorfeld der konferenz als blogger für sogenannte speed datings bei den firmen bewerben , um am ersten konferenztag innerhalb von je 10 min für kooperationen zu pitchen .
neue mobile technologien haben den alltag von menschen mit behinderungen einfacher gemacht .
rollstuhlfahrer und wheelmap.org-erfinder raul krauthausen hat ein paar beispiele gesammelt und erinnert daran , dass die barrieren noch nicht verschwunden sind. ich arbeite immer nur samstags. das denkt meine mama tatsächlich. die fragt mich aber auch , warum der mann aus der nivea-werbung ( joachim löw ) immer über fußball spricht . " der hat doch nix damit zu tun . "
seit der wiedervereinigung haben die wirtschaftsteilnehmer der alten bundesländer zwischen einer und zwei billionen euro in die neuen bundesländer transferiert , warum dann nicht auch nach griechenland und portugal ?
chefredakteur super illu , blattmacher aus leidenschaft , experte für ostdeutschland und people-journalismus osten ist in deutschland mehr als eine himmelsrichtung .
osten war ddr .
osten ist zerrissenheit .
im osten fühlt sich noch heute vieles anders an , als in freiburg , im ruhrgebiet oder in hamburg - und ich denke , ich weiß wovon ich rede , denn ich bin da geboren und aufgewachsen , meine eltern leben bei leipzig .
auch diesen herbst ist wieder oberstes gebot : die mischung macht 's .
traditionelle muster werden mit gedeckten tönen wie camel und burgunder kombiniert und mit leder und zeichentrick-prints auf stylisch getrimmt. styleranking hat sich in den letzten wochen auf die suche nach den ultimativen herbststücken gemacht und labels wie jil sander , prada und saint laurent auf den internationalen laufstegen gesichtet .
hört auf , von emotionen zu sprechen , wenn ihr dicke hose meint .
bitcoin ist eine neue währung , rein digital und virtuell , aber mit reeller kaufkraft .
die elektronische währung mit der einheit bitcoin stützt sich auf einen kryptographischen beweis .
vertrauen in mittelsmänner ist nicht nötig .
bitcoin geld kann sicher , schnell und weltweit transferiert werden. denn an diesem wanderten sage und schreibe 690.000 € auf die konten der partei .
alles legal , alles einwandfrei gemeldet - und trotzdem bleibt das berühmte geschmäckle .
spd will finanz- und arbeitsministeriumgettyauswärtiges amt ist nach westerwelle uninteressant ...
wer minister werden könnte revolution auf räderndpawie frauen in saudi-arabien für ihre rechte kämpfen frankreichs bürgermeister müssen schwule und lesben trauengettygericht weist klage zurück katholische kassenprüfer sollen beim protz-bischof aufräumendpabischofskommission schickt kontrolleure nach limburg " ich helfe der nationalen sicherheit " apsnowden : russland und china haben keine geheimdokumente von mir bundesrat verliert an wichtigkeitgettybund und länder entflechten sich immer weiter schwebebahn ohne strom : 100 fahrgäste sitzen festdpadefektes stromkabel sorgt für großeinsatz der feuerwehr in wuppertal " don 't be a maybe " - marlboro wehrt sich gegen werbeverbotfrizztextklage beim verwaltungsgericht münchen landminen-entschärfer stirbt bei flugzeug-absturzdpa „ einer der besten männer , die je geboren wurden " " sie ist einfach durchgedreht " youtubeverwirrte stenotypistin sorgt für bizarren auftritt im us-kongress lesen sie artikel , die ihnen möglicherweise gefallen , und schauen sie sich an , was ihre freunde teilen .
der goldene oktober kommt ... thinkstock ... aber nur im süden deutschlands kate zeigt ihre bauchmuskelnrex featuresfotos : wenige monate nach der geburt die herzogin von cambridge topfit dieser basketball-star wischt sich mit geld den hintern abgettystatt klopapier nimmt er gleich 100-dollar-scheine leugnen zwecklos ! britney spears / instagramdiese 9 promis wurden offensichtlich mit photoshop bearbeitet becker lässt sich das duell mit pocher gut bezahlengettyriesensumme für auftritt bei " alle auf den kleinen " 15-jähriger vergewaltigt 64-jährige walkerin im gebüschgettyerst halbnackt durch den wald geflüchtet , dann geschnappt jennifer lopez schmeißt ihren toyboy rausgettycasper ist 18 jahre jünger 9 gründe , warum paare in der hochzeitsnacht keinen sex habengetty erst der lebensgefährte , jetzt der brudergettybärbel schäfer verliert gleich zwei geliebte menschen durch autounfälle gestatten , mein name ist rob ironammonite.comist dieses baby-eichhörnchen nicht süß ?
here is a link issued by king power that alledgedly shows the lady pocketing a wallet but was not produced until 2 months after .
careful examination one may see how a video may have been changed as its very easy to do to suit the situation after the fact ? http : / / www.kingpower.com / 2009 / index.php # burundanga is a type of chloroform and is widely used by kratoys and scammers to make one sleep then they rob you .
such a drug can be placed in a drink , an aircon of a taxi car ( using a napkin ) or on the breasts of a thai girl or boy or even on a personal greeting card given to an unwary forerigner or thai as has happened .
once you feel symtoms of dizziness or fainting then chances are something has been doctored .
it has happened in thailand and still being used as at sept 2009 so if you get faint make someone aware of your condition & get away from where you are if the person has befriended you may have administered it to you .
sale of water meters not impacted by alleged embezzlement thu oct 17 , 2013 1 : 23 pm edt bpd : woman fended intruder off with knife thu oct 17 , 2013 1 : 23 pm edt ny cadets and chefs join forces in the kitchen fri oct 18 , 2013 03 : 23 am edt raw : suspect arraigned in lax dry ice blasts fri oct 18 , 2013 03 : 23 am edt man arraigned for first-degree murder in death of heath crites fri oct 18 , 2013 01 : 23 am edt lawton man faces new charges in accidental shooting fri oct 18 , 2013 01 : 23 am edt lawton teen donates can tabs fri oct 18 , 2013 01 : 23 am edt cdc back at work to track the flu fri oct 18 , 2013 03 : 23 am edt suspect id ’ d in weekend murder thu oct 17 , 2013 11 : 23 pm edt search continues for teen ’ s killer thu oct 17 , 2013 9 : 23 pm edt gov. fallin announces bid for 2nd term thu oct 17 , 2013 11 : 23 am edt end of shutdown : how our reps voted thu oct 17 , 2013 09 : 23 am edt study : tulsa bad for allergy sufferers wed oct 16 , 2013 09 : 23 am edt assaults on emsa medics unexpectedly common fri oct 18 , 2013 01 : 23 am edt lockup unlocks creek county inmate ’ s hidden talents thu oct 17 , 2013 11 : 23 pm edt oktoberfest - fun & responsibility fri oct 18 , 2013 01 : 23 am edt skiatook cleaning up dilapidated properties in push toward growth thu oct 17 , 2013 7 : 23 pm edt by rob driscoll a lot of folks in the business world go to great lengths to avoid having their children along for a business trip , fearing it would be at best distracting and at worst chaos .
i was part of & hellip ; continue reading & rarr ; calgary web design by media dog productions1310 wiba terms of use deliver any posting to that you do not have a right to make available under law or contractual or fiduciary relationships . ( iii ) identification of the material that is claimed to be infringing or to be the subject of infringing activity and that is to be removed or access to which is to be disabled , and information reasonably sufficient to permit clear channel to locate the material . ( v ) a statement that the complaining party has a good faith belief that use of the material in the manner complained of is not authorized by the copyright owner , its agent , or the law .
site map | terms of use | privacy statement | copyright & trademark notice | eeo tajikistan | reliefweb tajikistan who and development partners conducted assessment of the quality of antenatal and postnatal care in tajikistan “ ас атасы – нан ” – bread is the head of all foods , kazakh proverb in april , the most likely emergencies will be due to floods and flash floods , particularly in yakhsu and kizilsu rivers .
navy landed with £ 2million bill as ' war games ' in red sea are torpedoed by the french jamaica 's health minister praises paho and who for support to caricom drills scheduled at saint francis fri oct 18 , 2013 05 : 12 am edt operations leader named at vanihcs fri oct 18 , 2013 05 : 12 am edt arrest made in burglary spree fri oct 18 , 2013 03 : 12 am edt funding okd for base part of project fri oct 18 , 2013 03 : 12 am edt congregation of nuns approves testing for oil fri oct 18 , 2013 01 : 12 am edt obama lashes republicans as government reopens thu oct 17 , 2013 7 : 12 pm edt northern illinois planning agency oks illiana tollway thu oct 17 , 2013 7 : 12 pm edt now you can get indiana corn no matter the season thu oct 17 , 2013 9 : 12 pm edt the alexander ranked 6th best new hotel in the us by tripadvisor thu oct 17 , 2013 7 : 12 pm edt 100 years of firefighting remembered thu oct 17 , 2013 7 : 12 pm edt man out $ 1k for colts tix on craigslist fri oct 18 , 2013 05 : 12 am edt feds challenge new trial in katrina shootings fri oct 18 , 2013 03 : 12 am edt the word on the street : spring is the nations best , for a week fri oct 11 , 2013 9 : 12 pm edt focus is on waiver for indiana medicaid expansion fri oct 18 , 2013 01 : 12 am edt nuns ok oil testing on indiana land fri oct 18 , 2013 01 : 12 am edt terms of service mon dec 26 , 2011 10 : 47 am est ex-indiana lawmaker faces charge of soliciting sex fri dec 9 , 2011 01 : 12 am est linebacker lounges dj drew is the life of the party thu oct 17 , 2013 9 : 12 pm edt buoyed by his victory over addax , gabon ’ s oil minister etienne ngoubou flew to the united states at the end of september to once again try to persuade some majors to explore in his ( ... )
the french oil firm maurel & prom has appointed a new chief to see to its business ( ... )
information fairs to be held in buckingham and steeple claydon más de 20.000 unidades habitacionales han sido entregadas en caracasesta cifra se suma a las 456 mil 795 unidades habitacionales que han sido asignadas mediante este programa social .
además , actualmente se están construyendo 27 mil 670 ... avanzan trabajos de ciclovía en avenida las acacias del sector plaza venezuelaesta iniciativa forma parte del plan caracas rueda libre y cumple con las normas internacionales : 2,4 metros de ancho y con separación en altura y en brocales para ... prohíben a comerciantes informales vender alimentos de la cesta básicadesde este mes , los trabajadores de la economía informal y de mercados a cielo abierto tienen prohibida la venta de productos de la cesta básica , regulados por el ...
más de 20.000 unidades habitacionales han sido entregadas en caracas avanzan trabajos de ciclovía en avenida las acacias del sector plaza venezuela prohíben a comerciantes informales vender alimentos de la cesta básica trabajos de renovación de plaza la candelaria culminarán a finales de noviembre los trabajos iniciaron el pasado mes de septiembre , gracias a la aprobación de 24 millones 240 mil bolívares por parte del presidente de la república , nicolás maduro , durante las jornadas de gobierno de calle realizadas en la ciudad nuevo acceso vial en plaza venezuela contribuye en el desplazamiento de 450 mil personas esta vía abarca 231 metros y comprende un puente metálico sobre el río guaire de 36 metros , un acceso a la salida del paseo colón al puente de 80 metros , una rampa de incorporación a la autopista francisco fajardo de 115 metro antonio álvarez escucha propuestas de " otro beta más " en el barrio la cruz de petare docentes mirandinos convocarán a paro si gobernación no honra reivindicaciones laborales la presidenta del suteem , niover ortega , señaló que el gremio docente tomará la medida del paro si luego de las reuniones conciliatorias establecidas en la ley orgánica del trabajo no reciben respuesta por parte del gobernador henrique capriles denuncian presunto desvío de recursos de la gobernación de lara para financiamiento de la mud " la gobernación está financiando a la mesa de la unidad en el estado , más de 70 dirigentes , inclusive candidatos que aspiran a ser concejales el 8 de diciembre en las elecciones municipales se encuentran cobrando sin hacer ningún tipo de trabajo " voceros populares denuncian agresiones por parte de antichavistas en bello monte la noche de este miércoles , grupos antichavistas agredieron a voceros populares de colinas de bellos monte , durante un encuentro con el candidato de la revolución por la alcaldía de baruta , wiston vallenilla derecha ya tiene la junta de transición que espera instaurar si diera un golpe esta junta estaría presidida por " la damisela de las rodillas " , señaló maduro en alusión a la diputada maría machado , firmante del decreto que abolió los poderes del país tras el golpe de estado contra el comandate hugo chávez en 2002 , y quien en 2005 se reunió con george bush , ex presidente de eeuu la alcaldía metropolitana les adeuda dos años y medio de salario , tiques alimentación y otros beneficios .
en 2009 se les canceló , gracias a un crédito especial aprobado por el presidente hugo chávez , un monto de 77 millones de bolívares trabajadores de miranda marcharán para exigir a capriles pago de deudas la presidenta del consejo legislativo de miranda , aurora morales , expresó que trabajadores y educadores de la entidad participarán en una movilización este miércoles para exigirle al gobernador de la entidad , henrique capriles radonski , el pago de deudas salariales jvr alerta sobre cacería de la derecha contra el presidente nicolás maduro antes del 8-d en su columna el espejo , el periodista enumera una serie de acontecimientos que se han venido suscitando , sin ningún tipo de éxito , y que han sido propiciados desde la derecha para intentar crear desestabilización y zozobra generalizada en el país while we contemplate the incoherence of such a gesture , let 's go back to the barricades thing .
has anybody noticed the size of our government has actually increased when the republicans are in control ? myth1958 : cesca excoriates the hypocritical tea baggers as they cynically use what part of " this land is my land , this land is your land " don 't you understand ?
why ?
to what end ?
ideology ?
your opinion ?
ever been to a national park ?
ever worked at one ?
try to imagine bryce and zion owned by utah , if you will .
half of us pay no income taxes , and don 't fund the government .
btw , did you just say " payroll taxes only pay for entitlements , ss and medicare " and then turn around and say people are " stealing taxpayer money to fund entitlements they want - but they don 't pay for . " jimbojeem : the ones who " don & # 039 ; t pay taxes " pay sales , and property for its ski boats , water sports like fishing with all night bars and nightlife and the odd scam or 2. million tourists visiting a year--loads of self loaders and a few of the old retirees .
even the nice looking graphic artist depictions , one cannot resist the temptation to get in first and buy a condo right on the pattaya beach with a name that has hit the record books , and this breathtaking highrise was to be the mega darling of pattaya .
well it seems as at august 2009 theres no condo complex on schedule and the beach remains the same with waves flashing and waiting for the next project to happen .
[ bang saen bike week 2008 ] [ chiangmai bike week dec 2008 ] [ pattaya useful tel numbers ] [ pattaya digital film ] [ pattaya english breakfasts ] [ pattaya best food ] [ pattaya tesco , big c ] [ pattaya beach ] [ pattaya tourist handy tips ] [ pattaya beach road ] [ pattaya best restaurants ] [ pattaya buffet dinners ] [ pattaya tesco , big c ] [ pattaya beach ] [ pattaya tourist handy tips ] [ pattaya beach road ] [ pattaya free wifi wireless hotels ] [ pattaya best restaurants ] [ pattaya bars ] [ pattaya jet ski hire ] [ pattaya hire cars / bikes ] [ pattaya driving license ] [ pattaya car hire ] [ pattaya motorcycle hire ] [ pattaya pickups & loads ] [ pattaya car / motorcycle reg office ] [ pattaya police & foreign volunteers ] [ pattaya scams ] [ pattaya property scams ] [ buying cars in thailand ] [ buying motorcycles in thailand ] [ pattaya bike week 2009 ] [ bang saen bike week 2008 ] [ fishing news ] [ check out bang saen ] [ more bang saen pics ] iran news headlines " in 90-91 , we didn ’ t know what we had except that it had to be entirely new because it was the first dinosaur , ” said hammer , who returned to the beardmore region for a third time with his largest team to date in an effort to recover as much of the meat-eating dinosaur as possible .
among the new discoveries is the partial skeleton of an ornithischian , or bird-hipped dinosaur , found under an overhang near the cryolophosaurus quarry by roger smith in the waning days of the field season .
that ’ s in contrast to the early jurassic , when the world ’ s landmasses were sealed together in the supercontinent called pangaea .
" the world was a biogeographic superhighway , ” makovicky said , explaining that an animal could literally traverse from one end of the world to the other .
the big question : did they ?
cryolophosaurus ’ closest relatives to date lived in what is modern-day united states and china .
in the pangaea configuration , they would have been at the far corners of the supercontinent from antarctica .
" we ’ re trying to do the whole mesozoic as much as we can , ” said hammer , referring to an era nearly 200 million years long , sandwiched between two mass extinctions , and loosely known as the age of dinosaurs .
" it ’ s simply two different environments ; that is the reason why you can find so much in the triassic and so little in the lower jurassic , ” koppelhus said .
the cold and altitude are tough on people and equipment .
makovicky said he lost a half-day on the mountain trying to get the jackhammer to start in the extreme cold .
he had to use the exhaust from a generator to warm it up .
" you ’ re thinking in ways that you ’ re not used to when you do fieldwork anywhere else , ” he said .
it ’ s a mindset familiar to hammer , who has made eight trips to antarctica since the 1970s .
the 61-year-old paleontologist mused it could be his last visit , at least to the beardmore region. see when websites have added new content .
you can get the latest headlines and video in one place , as soon as its published , without let you store them on your main computer , in the same way that you the site offers rss feeds .
click the icon to see the feed and , if once you have chosen a news reader , all you have to do is to if you click on the rss button you can subscribe to the feed in news reader or by cutting and pasting the same url into a new feed automatically check for feeds for you when you visit a ilyas ashar , ilyas ashar british man , ilyas ashar convicted , ilyas ashar guilty , ilyas ashar mute deaf girl , ilyas ashar sex slave , world news , the case was clearly an emotional one for those involved , with greater manchester police official may doyle describing ashar as " pure evil " in contrast with the " remarkably courageous " victim , the bbc notes .
ian rushton of the crown prosecution service said that the case represented the exploitation of one the " most vulnerable " victims he had ever heard of .
how sad for his wife and daughter , in their religion they are not educated ether and cant talk back to him , he is the master of them all and they live in the 14th century and don 't seem to be able to do anything about it for themselves .
so very , very sad for that little girl who had to suffer for so long as the ones did here with castro .
too bad in england this guy will most likely get a few years and be on the street in a few .
i wonder how they will treat him for this sickening evil deed .
i was hoping to never read anything like that again and here we are again ........
hopefully he 'll meet the same fate as castro .... dangling at the end of a rope in his cell .
the human species is the " blight " on this planet , the animals are the civilized creatures .
message of congratulation to the people of azerbaijan on the occasion of eid al-adha the conference is organized by the institute of law of chinese academy of ...
chipstead u12s ' season got under way on sunday with a 3-1 win away at wadhurst in a crowborough league a match.chipstead scored within six ...
chipstead had to settle for a share of the points on saturday , drawing 4-4 in a thriller away to farnborough obg.farnborough broke the ...
home vitrina cu cărți premiul academiei pentru dr. virginia mircea « previousstatele unite ale europei & # 8211 ; soluția pentru criza euro © 2011 cadran politic · rss · designed by theme junkie · powered by wordpressheed the creditors more than the credit raters - barrons.com © 2013 indexmundi - all rights reservedairline offices in thailand a line of hundreds of protesters snaked through the departures area at the international airport as they got autographs from chamlong and his pad co-founder sondhi limthongkul .
internation airport 99 village no.3 , sanambin panij rd . , klong hoi khong thani internation airport 1fl .
tumbun nadee , amphor muang , udon thani , [ suvarnabumi airport ] [ suvarnabumi airport touts beware ] of privacy and our company will act accordingly .
see faqsîmpotriva manipulării , vol 1 & # 8211 ; războiul secret din anul 1989 & # 8211 ; nina georgescu | cadran politic home vitrina cu cărți împotriva manipulării , vol 1 & # 8211 ; războiul secret din anul 1989 & # 8211 ; nina georgescu pornind de la ideia ca pentru a cerceta explozia unei stele trebuie sa cercetezi mai intai ce a fost inaintea exploziei cat si ceea ce a fost dupa , am cercetat evenimentele istorice din romania din decembrie 1989 in con – text european si mondial , de la inceputurile razboiului rece impotriva urss promovat de harry truman presedintele sua la sfarsitul celui de al ii-lea razboi mondial ( 1945 ) si pana la razboiul preventiv al lui g.w. bush presedintele sua sustinut de anglia impotriva irakului din martie 2003 .
analiza multiplelor fatete ale evenimentelor din decembrie 1989 din romania , reflectate de multitudinea diversitatii domeniilor cercetate din punct de vedere economic , politic , social , filosofic , antropologic , istoric , sociologic , psihologic si de aparare nationala si a progresului mondial , demonstreaza ca acele evenimente au fost denumite in mod fals revolutii si ca in realitate , impotriva tarilor socialiste din europa de est , tarile capitaliste dezvoltate din vest si sua au desfasurat un razboi secret , cu sprijin tradator autohton , din interiorul tarilor socialiste vizate . pe baza acestei analize si a cercetarii complexe a datelor si faptelor am ajuns la concluzia care ne infatiseaza un tablou unic al distrugerii socialismului european .
in studiu se dezvaluie ca distrugerea socialismului european s-a realizat , intr-o prima etapa , pe calea razboiului secret , caruia i s-a dat falsul nume de revolutie . doua sunt motivele pentru care specialistii in arta razboiului modern si politicienii care au acaparat puterea in stat , au denumit in mod fals razboiul secret prin cuvantul de revolutie . in primul rand termenul de revolutie este un concept cu profunde rezonante pozitive in memoria colectivitatilor umane , semnificand , in conditiile existentei unei contradictii antagonice in societate , actiunea celor de jos in beneficiul maselorlargi populare . in al doilea rand , sub termenul de revolutie se ascunde actiunea vicleana , ofensiva globala , a occidentului si sua impotriva socialismului european devenit concurent in plan politic , economic si social in punctul maxim al crizei economice a capitalismului mondial din anii 1970 , pentru a induce in eroare opinia publica din fostele tari socialiste pentru a nu riposta si pentru a pune la adapost mitul americii si al occidentului de dispretul si dezaprobarea opiniei publice internationale fata de razboiul secret din 1989-1991 impotriva europei socialiste si a urss .
ascunzandu-se adevarul despre esenta evenimentelor din 1989 sub continua manipulare economica si politica a opiniei publice , in romania , in mod oficial , circula trei termeni despre revolutie : revolutia sangeroasa din romania , revolutia mai putin sangeroasa din fosta uniune sovietica si revolutia de catifea din celelalte tari foste socialiste din europa .
in acest context , ideia centrala a studiului este ca evenimentele din 1989-1991 din romania si din celelalte tari foste socialiste inclusiv urss , nu pot fi numite revolutii , nici prin continut , nici prin intentie , nici prin urmari si deci nici prin utilitate . in plus , in lucrare am prezentat analize si opinii ale unor oameni de cea mai inalta valoare profesionala din tara si strainatate care , distingand adevarul de fals , n-au ezitat sa recunoasca ideia de neverosimilitate a revolutiei din romania si din celelalte tari foste socialiste si au demonstrat caracterul planificat al acestor evenimente – fara sa le denumeasca in vreun fel & # 8211 ; impotriva statelor socialiste din europa . in consecinta , in lucrare , demonstrez punctul meu de vedere , unic pana acum exprimat public , despre acele evenimente pe care le numesc razboi secret global si ale caror necunoscute si semne de intrebare contorsioneaza inca memoria poporului roman in special si pune in dilema si confuzie in general constiintele nationale nu doar ale popoarelor din fostele tari socialiste , dar si a celorlalte popoare in lupta lor pentru o viata mai buna si mai dreapta , pentru progres social si pentru pace .
pe baza cunostintelor noi rezultate din datele evenimentelor din 1989-1991 din romania , din celelalte tari foste socialiste si din urss , am apreciat ca aceste evenimente au fost o agresiune externa a occidentului si sua , cu sprijin autohton tradator , desfasurata sub forma razboiului secret , ca o actiune ofensiva globala impotriva oranduirii socialiste din europa . razboiul fiind secret , precum un atac terorist , nu putea fi adus la cunostinta popoarelor socialiste europene transformate in tinte in teatrul operatiunilor de razboi secret . continutul razboiului secret din 1989-1991 este pus in evidenta in paginile lucrarii prin formele concrete de lupta identificate , sub care au avut loc in romania si in celelalte tari foste socialiste . formele de lupta identificate in acest razboi secret sunt : consilierea politica , finantarea organizatiilor politice , operatiuni economice , pregatirea cadrelor , operatiuni politice sau paramilitare insurgente destinate loviturilor de stat , razboiul informational , razboiul radioelectronic , razboiul psihologic si razboiul cu foc armat – terorist .
in lumina acestor realitati a aparut si mai pregnant necesitatea de a evidentia ca originea razboiului secret se gaseste in doctrina americana a razboiului rece pus in opera de catre presedintele sua harry truman ( ajuns presedinte prin hazard in urma mortii lui franklin delano roosvelt ) impotriva tanarului stat socialist urss , aliatul de pana mai ieri in al ii-lea razboi mondial . ulterior doctrina razboilui rece a fost extinsa si asupra celorlalte state care pornisera pe calea socialista de dezvoltare .
prin razboiul rece , numit de serviciile speciale secrete ale sua si razboiul ideologiilor , truman a facut ( dupa al doilea razboi mondial ) o neta demarcatie intre ideologii , impartind mai intai germania in germania de est si germania de vest , si apoi impartind intreaga lume dupa modelul german , in estul socialist si vestul capitalist . acest moment a marcat in-ceputul unei epoci de tensiune intre capitalismul invechit si socialismul aparut ca o noua oranduire , moderna .
in lucrare se precizeaza faptul ca in anii de inceput ai razboiului secret - pe fundalul razboiului rece - deci imediat dupa al ii-lea razboi mondial , ostilitatile impotriva tarilor socialiste aveau un caracter disparat si necoordonat . odata cu izbucnirea celei de a doua mari crize economice a capitalismului din jurul anilor 1970 , ostilitatile razboiului secret impotriva socialismului au capatat un caracter ofensiv global , programat , planificat pe etape si coordonat de catre presedintii sua , procedandu-se la o repartizare a principalelor tari capitaliste membre nato pe grupe de tari socialiste din europa , in vederea impulsionarii si grabirii exploziilor razboiului secret , carora li s-au dat falsul nume de revolutii .
exploziile in lant ale razboiului secret numite de dusmanii socialismului “ prabusirea socialismului “ dupa principiul dominoului , au avut loc pe baza unui plan al razboiului secret , in conditiile in care pe plan mondial s-au conturat doua fenomene esentiale : 1 . pe masura dezvoltarii capitalismului , contradictia fundamentala , antagonica a acestui sistem , se ascute . in jurul anilor 1970 democratia occidentala se confrunta cu o grava criza . contradictia dintre caracterul social al productiei si caracterul privat-capitalist al insusirii rezultatelor ei ajunsese la stadiul maxim de ascutire , determinand izbucnirea celei de a doua mari crize economice a capitalismului . contradictia fundamentala ce caracterizeaza sistemul capitalist , de la aparitie pana la disparitie , determina toate celelalte contradictii ale capitalismului . pe plan social se exprima prin contradictia antagonista dintre principalele clase sociale din societatea capitalista , burghezie si proletariat . dupa 1970 , in contextul ascutirii ansamblului contradictiilor antagoniste , in sistemul mondial capitalist , democratiile occidentale au inceput sa se confrunte cu o agravare a discriminarilor sociale , cu declinul general al economiei si cu inflatia , toate acestea provocand o criza de sistem a civilizatiei occidentale . contestarea globala a capitalismului se facea din ce in ce mai mult auzita si o multitudine de conflicte intre categoriile socio-profesionale din tarile capitaliste dezvoltate se agravau . evident , acestea s-ar fi putut rezolva pe calea luptei de clasa care culmineaza cu revolutia sociala . este tocmai ceeace capitalistii au dorit si au reusit sa evite , prin punerea la cale a razboiului secret impotriva socialismului .
2 . in acelasi timp democratiile socialiste , rezultate din forma de organizare sociala si economica a societatii intemeiata pe proprietatea socialista ( obsteasca ) asupra mijloacelor de productie , societate libera de orice forma de exploatare , au creat conditii pentru acea dezvoltare legica , de la inferior la superior , umanizand relatiile sociale . in acest context , in timp ce democratiile occidentale se aflau intr-o stare alarmanta de deruta determinata de cea de a doua mare criza a capitalismului , democratiile socialiste , in comparatie cu democratiile occidentale , obtinusera intr-un timp istoric scurt remarcabile succese economice si sociale , impunandu-se ca un sistem economic si politic pe plan mondial . socialismul devenise in acea perioada pentru occident nu numai un concurent economic si politic dar si o reala alternativa pentru tarile lumii a 3-a si chiar pentru tarile capitaliste dezvoltate pentru rezolvarea gravelor probleme sociale ale societatii capitaliste .
noua situatie economica , sociala si politica pe plan mondial a determinat lumea capitalista occidentala sa treaca – sub patronajul washingtonului - la un proces programat si controlat , pentru a putea conduce lumea in functie de interesele vitale ale marilor trusturi nationale si multinationale capitaliste . in acest scop a fost pus la punct un plan de razboi secret impotriva socialismului . acest plan secret a fost aprobat de sua si de tarile capitaliste dezvoltate membre ale nato si a fost pus in opera , din toamna anului 1973 , de catre serviciile secrete din aceste tari . la acest plan s-a lucrat timp indelungat , chiar din interiorul tarilor socialiste vizate , cu rabdarea care este specifica serviciilor secrete , pentru a pregati in cele mai mici amanunte momentele critice explozive din 1989-1991 , din tarile socialiste ale europei .
analizele si cercetarile efectuate asupra faptelor si documentelor au relevat ca planul razboiului secret , gandit ca o solutie de atenuare si de iesire din cea de a doua mare criza a capitalismului , a cuprins pana in acest moment doua etape . prima etapa a razboiului secret s-a consumat si s-a finalizat cu ceea ce s-a numit fals revolutie . scopul primei etape a razboiului secret a fost schimbarea regimului politic din tarile socialiste si impunerea din exterior a unor regimuri politice nedenumite cu claritate la vremea respectiva de oficialii autohtoni daca este vorba de regim politic capitalist , socialist sau mixt . dupa metamorfoza politica neexplicata opiniei publice , a urmat imediat cea de a doua etapa a razboiului secret numita fals tranzitie .
scopul celei de a doua etape a razboiului secret este distrugerea sistemului economic socialist , distrugerea puterii economice a societatilor socialiste europene , a marei industrii si a cercetarii si impunerea unei economii inapoiate care sa fie dependenta de centru , convenabile puterilor occidentale si sua . cu toate ca cea de a doua etapa a razboiului secret constituie obiectul de cercetare al celui de al doilea volum la care lucrez in prezent , aceasta tema trebuie adusa la cunostinta aici intrucat altfel nu poate fi obtinuta o perspectiva corecta , de ansamblu , asupra razboiului secret care se desfasoara in mai multe etape .
lucrarea dezvaluie , in cazul romaniei , ca asa-zisa revolutie a reprezentat prima etapa a razboiului secret , cand “ emanatii ” decembristi s-au autoconstituit la data de 22 dec.1989 in consiliul frontului salvarii nationale , au acaparat puterea in stat si au abdicat de la suveranitatea politica a tarii , moment marcat anterior ( la 19 dec.1989 la timisoara ) , prin decuparea stemei republicii socialiste romania din drapelul de stat si arborarea acestuia in locuri publice , in starea pangarita descrisa . in cea de a doua etapa a razboiului secret , numita fals tranzitie , are loc abdicarea treptata de la suveranitatea economica a tarii , romania actionand cu docili- tate , impotriva intereselor nationale , la ordinile primite din afara , din partea organismelor internationale financiare , economice , politice si militare , care se gasesc sub controlul washingtonului .
in studiul din volumul 1 exista un capitol special pentru generalul ion mihai pacepa , fost consilier al presedintelui romaniei nicolae ceausescu , care avea acces la documentele informative secrete ale romaniei si care a fost dovedit ca era agent cia . mai sunt prezentati si alti tradatori romani .
in ceea ce priveste uniunea europeana , studiul din volumul 1 dezvaluie ca romania nu a fost antrenata in fosta c.e.e. ( comunitatea economica europeana ) atunci cand inregistra un nivel superior de dezvoltare fata de nivelul tarilor in curs de dezvoltare , atunci cand indicatorul de dezvoltare umana ( i.d.u. ) il depasea pe cel din multe tari capitaliste desi acestea aveau un pib pe cap de locuitor mai mare decat cel din romania .
deci romania nu a fost chemata sa adere la c.e.e. atunci cand se situa in mod practic , la toti indicatorii sociali , ( invatamant gratuit , cultura , asistenta medicala gratuita , locuinte , concedii de odihna si tratament in statiuni , pensii decente , lipsa somajului , lipsa inflatiei , etc . ) la nivelul tarilor dezvoltate iar in unele cazuri romania se situa chiar mai bine , cum ar fi de exemplu asigurarea cu locuri de munca , inexistenta in cee .
uniunea europeana i-a propus romaniei sa adere numai dupa ce aceasta a acceptat printr-o negociere pactada , prin emanatii falselor revolutii metamorfoza politic adusa de viclenia razboiului secret din dec1989 .
atunci scenariul “ europei unite si intregite ” , rezultat al razboiului secret , a aruncat societatea socialista si oamenii ei inapoi pe scara istoriei , sfidand si umilind natiuni si state numai pentru ca erau socialiste . omul a fost scos din schema temporalitatii lumii . valorile perene ale societatii socialiste , umanismul , solidaritatea si pacea , au fost eliminate .
studiul volumului 1 critica modalitatea constructiei uniunii europene si face precizarea ca timothy garton ash , cercetator in domeniul istoriei contemporane la institutul hoover din marea britanie , in cartea sa “ istoria prezentului ” afirma ca “ 1992 din europa de vest este cauza lui 1989 din europa de est “ ceea ce il determina sa sintetizeze aceasta anomalie prin formularea “ dispret aparent fata de logica istoriei “ . el surprinde astfel esenta unui act dus impotriva istoriei , care a fost contorsionata prin falsele revolutii din 1989 . intr-adevar , ce altceva poate sa exprime metamorfozele politice si economice petrecute in fostele tari socialiste din europa de est , stiut fiind ca timpul , inclusiv timpul istoric , descrie mersul inainte al evenimentului , al societatii si nu invers , precum a constatat si istoricul englez timothy garton ash .
in cazul romaniei , prin acest scenariu al europei unite si prin razboiul secret , au fost afectate punctele fixe de certitudine : armata a fost incalecata iar sistemul politic si baza tehnico-materiala , care dadeau tarii forta si puterea de a asigura un inalt nivel de emancipare la nivelul maselor , au fost distruse . chiar si memoria colectiva a inceput sa fie distrusa .
scenariul europei unite avea deci in vedere mai intai distrugerea natiunilor socialiste si numai dupa aceasta distrugere realizarea europei unite ceea ce este o barbarie in aceasta etapa de explozie a stiintei si teh- nologiei , cand factorul cunoastere , sub multiplele sale manifestari , influ- enteaza in mod hotarator dinamica oricarei tari , dezvoltata sau mai putin dezvoltata . in felul acesta au fost inlocuite procesele noi ale societatii soci aliste din europa purtatoare de o viata mai buna si mai dreapta de progres si pace , cu procese vechi , liberale , perimate , dar profitabile numai pentru un mic grup al societatii si iesite , in parte , din istoria contemporana a lumii .
lucrarea dezvaluie ca la 3 dec.1989 , la malta , bush-tatal si gorbaciov , nu au facut altceva decat sa concretizeze , departe de presa si de ochii lumii , actul final al distrugerii socialismului si al oamenilor sai , la care s-a lucrat din umbra pentru realizarea unei europe “ intregite ” si “ unificate ” . la malta , gorbaciov a ridicat , cu buna stiinta , drapelul alb in favoarea lui bush-tatal care dorea unificarea europei dar intr-o forma dezavantajoasa , pentru a slabi natiunile europene si de preferinta impotriva rusiei , pentru ca indiferent de natura regimului politic de la kremlin , tarist , comunist sau capitalist , rusia a fost , este si va fi , cel mai mare obstacol pentru ambitiile washingtonului de a domina lumea .
pentru romania si pentru celelalte foste tari socialiste uniunea europeana nu a adus nimic bun in problema fundamentala a societatii care este calitatea vietii .
un capitol important din carte este rezervat razboiului preventiv , varful de lance al razboiului rece . este criticat atat razboiul preventiv cat si sindromul american de superputere care are principiul declarat : “ noi bombardam pe cine vrem si cand vrem “ .
volumul 1 al studiului “ impotriva manipularii ” si-a propus sa fie o cercetare stiintifica a evenimentelor anului 1989 din europa . in acelasi timp aceasta lucrare identifica si dezvaluie diversitatea tehnicilor si mijloacelor de manipulare utilizate in timpul evenimentelor din dec.1989 in romania , care , neexaminate intr-un spirit stiintific si critic si nesanctionate la timpul lor , s-au transformat in perioada asa-zisei tranzitiei intr-o forma perfida de exploatare .
studiul pune in lumina dreptul si datoria fiecarui cetatean de a se apara impotriva manipularii , care este o noua forma de exploatare la sfarsitul secolului 20 si inceputul secolului 21 .
singura arma impotriva manipularii exploatatoare este manifestarea de catre toti cetatenii a unei constiinte libere si active .
tags : împotriva manipulării , nina georgescu , războiul secret din anul 1989 , vitrina cu cărți © 2010 cadran politic · rss · designed by theme junkie · powered by wordpress diocese of duluth - catholic church in northeastern minnesota but the site has its critics .
unlike the one in massachusetts , the utah exchange — now called avenue h — does not vet insurance policies or negotiate for the lowest prices .
built in 2009 , the website was designed to let all insurance carriers offer their policies to small businesses as a way to promote competition .
the obama administration is inviting states to apply for arkansas-style medicaid expansions in an effort to woo those balking at traditional medicaid expansion . © 2013 indexmundi - all rights reservedcover story | cadran politic mai avem puțin și rămân doar 12 luni până la debutul campaniei electorale pentru alegerile prezidențiale , dar în momentul de față avem un singur candidat sigur : crin antonescu .
să vedem potențialii contracandidați și șansele lor în ordinea probabilității candidaturii : infrastructură , telecomunicaţii , energie , dar şi schimburi culturale .
acestea au fost domeniile cheie care au fost ţintite de oficialii de la bucureşti cu ocazia a ceea ce ar putea fi numit un adevărat desant asupra chinei .
terenul a fost pregătit în primăvară , de constantin niţă , ministrul delegat pentru energie , pentru ca , recent , o întreagă delegaţie guvernamentală , condusă de premierul ...
discursul preşedintelui emil constantinescu la reuniunea la vârf a iniţiativei levant pentru pace globală , , la sediul naţiunilor unite , în perioada 24-25 iunie a.c odată cu intrarea în vigoare a tratatului de la lisabona în 1 decembrie 2009 , au intervenit schimbări în arhitectura instituţională a uniunii europene , cu impact asupra proceselor decizionale în sferă politico-legislativă .
este însă neclar deocamdată în ce măsură această reaşezare este definitivă , semnificativă , oportună ori eficace .
noul guvern al româniei a readus în discuţie tema alegerilor regionale şi descentralizarea ţării , în special pentru o mai bună absorbţie a fondurilor europene , dar nu numai .
să ne amintim că şi acum câţiva ani , când se discuta despre posibilităţi asupra modului de alegere a parlamentarilor europeni în românia , vasile puşcaş propunea chiar alegeri pe circumscripţii regionale .
odată cu formarea guvernului ponta se pune punct oficial epocii traian băsescu .
chiar dacă preşedintele rămâne în politică , rolul său va fi unul marginal , aşa cum a fost al lui ion iliescu după 2004 .
deşi unii ( inclusiv preşedintele băsescu ) au încercat să-i atribuie un rol mai important , influenţa lui ion iliescu asupra psd a fost minoră după “ noapta cuţitelor lungi ” când ...
alegerile prezidenţiale din statele unite ale americii au generat numeroase dezbateri furtunoase pro sau contra celor doi candidaţi .
relevanţa globală a acestor alegeri nu mai trebuie demonstrată , deşi nu întotdeauna alegerile aduc schimbări semnificative în politicile americane faţă de diferite regiuni ale lumii . şi apoi nu mică mi-a fost surprinderea să constat că în multe cazuri , ...
scrisoarea domnului emil constantinescu adresată domnului martin shulz , preşedintele pe vă adresez această scrisoare cu ocazia dezbaterilor organizate de parlamentul european asupra situaţiei politice din românia , în calitate de preşedinte al româniei între 1996 şi 2000 , perioadă în care consiliul european a decis începerea negocierilor de aderare la uniunea europeană în pofida unei ...
pentru a salva euro , uniunea europeană a impus în runde repetate politici de austeritate fiscală .
rezultatul a fost previzibil : a crescut şomajul şi veniturile au scăzut .
acest cerc vicios a transformat o problemă economică într-o dilemă politică cu guverne de stânga în creştere , în semn de protest faţă de politicile neoliberale , cu plecarea greciei din zona euro , cu germania care ... © 2013 cadran politic · rss · designed by theme junkie · powered by wordpress burundi | reliefweb au burundi , de petites lampes led sont en cours d ‘ expérimentation afin de pouvoir offrir plus d ’ autonomie aux femmes et aux communautés des régions rurales le comité spécialisé du conseil d ’ administration de l ’ afd pour l ’ appui aux initiatives des ong s ’ est réuni le 15 octobre 2013 .
il a approuvé l ’ attribution des subventions suivantes : plan international france – améliorer la santé maternelle et infantile au togo burundi au burundi , de petites lampes led sont en cours d ‘ expérimentation afin de pouvoir offrir plus d ’ autonomie aux femmes et aux communautés des régions rurales découvrez comment des lampes led « nuru » alimentées par des bicyclettes peuvent , dans le cadre d ’ un programme expérimental , offrir un éclairage sûr et bon marché ainsi que l ’ occasion , pour les groupes vulnérables , de créer des entreprises . regarder dans realplayer premiere of the tdrp documentary “ scoring for peace ” ( http : / / www.tdrp.net / scoringforpeace ) democratic republic of the congo + 1 other le hcr aide de jeunes congolais albinos à fuir la sorcellerie bujumbura , burundi , 14 octobre ( hcr ) – anaclet sourit et regarde affectueusement son jeune fils mais le vent balayant le lac tanganyika ne parvient pas à soulager son anxiété .
il s 'inquiète profondément pour la sécurité de jeff , qui est différent de la plupart des gens .
burundi + 1 other d ’ après l ’ oim , les anciens réfugiés burundais ont toujours besoin d ’ aide à la réintégration burundi - d ’ après le profilage socioéconomique des familles effectué par l ’ oim entre le 17 juin et le 24 août 2013 , neuf mois après leur retour du camp de réfugiés de mtabila à l ’ ouest de la tanzanie , les anciens réfugiés burundais restent confrontés à des problèmes socioéconomiques qui entravent leur réintégration dans les communautés de retour .
burundi au burundi , des ex-combattantes reprennent goût à la vie [ vidéo ] autrefois , elles avaient pris les armes dans le cadre de la guerre civile qui a ensanglanté leur pays .
aujourd ’ hui , ces ex-combattantes ont pu réintégrer la vie professionnelle et se sont attirées le respect de leur communauté .
agence france-presse : © afp : the information provided in this product is for personal use only .
none of it may be reproduced in any form whatsoever without the express permission of agence france-presse .
burundi affrontements entre jeunes du parti au pouvoir et de l & # 039 ; opposition bujumbura , 7 octobre 2013 ( afp ) - des affrontements entre jeunes du parti au pouvoir et d 'un parti d 'opposition ont fait cinq blessés graves et des dizaines de blessés légers dimanche près de bujumbura , ont indiqué des sources concordantes lundi à l 'afp. is a direct bus from the arcade bus station : nachonchai air .
this is an or take a train from pattaya to bangkok then hop on the overnight to you want to retreat to pattaya good fishing abounds everywhere in safe up to 300kg .
also found are yellowfin tuna ( 20kg ) , wahoo ( 40kg ) and ripleys believe it or not or wind surfing or boating plus the many animal [ bang saen bike week 2008 ] [ chiangmai bike week dec 2008 ] [ pattaya useful tel numbers ] [ pattaya digital film ] [ pattaya english breakfasts ] [ pattaya best food ] [ pattaya tesco , big c ] [ pattaya beach ] [ pattaya tourist handy tips ] [ pattaya beach road ] [ pattaya best restaurants ] [ pattaya buffet dinners ] [ pattaya tesco , big c ] [ pattaya beach ] [ pattaya tourist handy tips ] [ pattaya beach road ] [ pattaya best restaurants ] [ pattaya bars ] [ pattaya jet ski hire ] [ pattaya hire cars / bikes ] [ pattaya driving license ] [ pattaya car hire ] [ pattaya motorcycle hire ] [ pattaya pickups & loads ] [ pattaya car / motorcycle reg office ] [ pattaya police & foreign volunteers ] [ pattaya scams ] [ pattaya property scams ] [ buying cars in thailand ] [ buying motorcycles in thailand ] [ pattaya bike week 2009 ] [ bang saen bike week 2008 ] [ fishing news ] [ check out bang saen ] [ more bang saen pics ] [ more thailand finance news ] [ pension funds ] [ depression looms 2008 ] [ hedge funds 2008 ] [ investing fund guidelines ] why you [ do not invest in finance companies ] [ buy gold not shares or invest in finance companies ] [ thai property speculation & sub prime crises ] eight or ten blizzards a year are not uncommon to coastal areas , and they bring any human outdoor activity to a standstill .
temperatures in october will be 1 to 2 ° c above the long-term averages in khatlon province , at lower elevations of drd and in sughd province .
precipitation is expected to be above the norm in all the regions of the country. majority of calories to households in tajikistan while cooking oil urban population and is the primary market for importers and for distribution to the entire country .
khujand is a major city in the parts of the fergana valley in uzbekistan .
kurgan-tyube is a major market the south of the country and is a key market for • sweden and russia are the largest donors to the region home vitrina cu cărți noua dimensiune a terorismului international & # 8211 ; virginia mircea maladia e veche şi pare că nu se dezlipeşte de om de-a lungul istoriei sale .
nu erau raidurile nomazilor însoţite de jafuri şi abuzuri săvârşite periodic , cu câteva mii de ani înainte de hristos , mijloace de intimidare a populaţiilor agricole paşnice ?
atât războaiele , cât şi teroarea ca forme de violenţă organizată au adunat doctorii politologi la capul bolnavului să-i explice boala şi să-i caute remediul .
teorii peste teorii şi volume peste volume s-au adunat în biblioteci şi arhive vaste transformând literatura asupra subiectului într-o regiune greu penetrabilă .
de aceea văd în volumul scris de dr .
virginia mircea un act aproape temerar .
a face ordine în ideile şi scrierile asupra subiectului e ca şi a curăţa spaţiile lui augias .
şi totuşi , un rezultat remarcabil a fost înregistrat .
autoarea , care şi-a atestat capacitatea de a controla surse documentare vaste , în cartea sa despre islam ( „ islamul şi soarta lumii – fundamentalismul islamic ca ideologie politică ” , 2009 – n.a. ) reuşeşte şi de data aceasta să pună ordine în datele , teoriile şi soluţiile posibile ale temei terorismului .
repertoriul parcurs este de-a dreptul impresionant .
la cele aproape 200 de trimiteri la surse sunt adăugate peste 100 de pagini de anexe documentare .
ordinea şi clarificarea introduse în acest vast teritoriu este un merit al cărţii , care nu face decât să ne pregătească pentru o analiză riguroasă , introdusă cu tact şi măsură .
dacă nu ar fi decât o mărturie a spiritului ştiinţific , ar fi destul să descurajeze amatorismul şi improvizarea caracteristice la numeroase studii de ştiinţe politice .
capitolul definiţiilor , bogat în citarea diferitelor soluţii date , este util pentru clarificări conceptuale pregătitoare .
astfel se distinge între internaţional şi transnaţional .
ultima noţiune vizează acţiuni în mai multe ţări , în timp ce statele au un sistem internaţional .
înţelegem de ce terorismul transcende cetăţenia actorilor .
culege adepţi indiferent de mediul naţional din care provin .
în privinţa unei definiţii , conduce încet , dar sigur spre tema care câştigă teren .
terorismul este violenţă folosită în scop politic , nu este război , deşi are tangenţe cu el .
lucrează subteran , clandestin , camuflat .
în capitolul „ şcoli de gândire ” apar mai clar distincţiile .
are drept bază : ideologia , etnonaţionalismul şi extremismul religios .
așadar , componenta religioasă e doar a treia ca însemnătate .
are drept scopuri imediate , politice desigur , intimidarea populaţiilor din ţări declarate ostile , răspândirea generalizată a fricii şi a sentimentului de insecuritate .
neostentativ , ajungem la erorile care se fac în reacţia şi măsurile de combatere a terorismului .
dacă nu e război , a-i declara război nu are sensul proclamat .
nu va fi învins prin măsuri militare sau de forţă , oricât efort s-ar dedica acestei căi , ca soluţie .
a proceda reactiv , prin metoda acţiune-reacţie , nu este o cale eficientă .
cum se explică faptul că în materie de pace onu a adoptat acţiuni de supraveghere a păcii , de stabilire a păcii , dar nu şi acţiuni de construire a păcii ?
dacă nu este în principal o mişcare religioasă , confruntarea cu islamul , oricât de răspândită , nu ţine .
dacă este transnaţională , măsurile internaţionale nu sunt suficiente .
capitolul „ violenţa ca acţiune simbolică ” este revelator pentru înţelegerea fenomenului .
terorismul are mesaj .
acordă importanţă majoră transmiterii lui .
urmărește popularitatea , publicitatea şi pătrunderea în mass-media .
vrea să rămână mereu , prin actele sale necurmate , în atenţia generală .
cititorul este îndemnat la reflecţii şi concluzii proprii .
dacă are drept ţintă populaţii civile , întreţine terorismul scopuri de a obţine putere statală proprie ?
dacă nu vrea să desfiinţeze marile puteri ale lumii , are cel puţin ambiţii de a se instala în locul lăsat liber de un mic stat slăbit ?
în această fază ni se semnalează doar conivenţe statale .
terorismul este interesat să obţină sprijin de la statele care îl pot ajuta cu bani şi arme .
e o complicitate ascunsă , curentă în şantaj sau faimoasa taxă de protecţie a mafiilor .
de unde dispune de arme şi bani , în special arme ?
oricâtă forţă umană ar angaja în reţelele sale , ea ar fi ineficientă în absenţa armelor , explozibilului , mijloacelor tehnice de comunicare rapidă , a folosirii marilor avantaje aduse de globalizare prin desfiinţarea limitelor anterioare de spaţiu şi timp .
studiul anatomic şi fiziologic al terorismului este realizat minuţios şi edificator .
la fel evoluţia lui istorică .
este urmat de cercetarea atentă a conflictelor şi a violenţei , în care autorităţi ca burton pentru conflicte şi galtung pentru violenţă sunt chemate la bară , ceea ce se întâmplă rar în literatura relaţiilor internaţionale .
capitolul de „ etiologia conflictelor violente ” ne pregăteşte pentru pasul esenţial de a înţelege , dincolo de violenţă , cauzele acesteia .
este o schimbare de perspectivă care mută terenul de la manifestările violenţei la planul minţii umane , unde se făuresc viziunile .
istoria îndelungată , evoluţia continuă , schimbarea conjuncturilor ne fac să recunoaştem că orice abordare pe termen scurt sau eradicarea rapidă cu strategiile şi resursele actuale sunt sortite eşecului .
nevoia de a-l considera proces de termen lung face ca studiile prospective să fie implicate în stăvilirea şi eventuala eradicare a terorismului .
este ceea ce autoarea întreprinde în capitolul final „ evoluţia terorismului în secolul al xxi-lea ” .
în locul tonului dominant al cărţii , neutru şi echilibrat , această parte cu totul remarcabilă sună trâmbiţele unui avertisment sumbru , dar lucid .
terorismul este departe de a-şi fi epuizat mijloacele .
alternează perioadele de acţiune cu cele de observaţie şi de adaptare la situaţii noi .
de la „ reţea ” trece la „ reţea destructurată ” , cu capacităţi crescute de a se ascunde .
gradul de sofisticare a acţiunilor creşte şi în ceea ce priveşte strategia şi în ceea ce constituie mijloacele .
apoi , teroriştii amatori , cu bucata ( part-time ) , care apelează la mijloace locale , improvizate .
competenţa operaţională a profesioniştilor creşte .
au celulare de unică folosinţă , îşi însuşesc rapid tehnologiile informatice de comunicare , vizează accesul la arme nucleare , biologice , chimice , urmăresc procesul de proliferare pe plan mondial , care nu dă semne de încetineală .
componenta religioasă este în creştere , trăieşte şi se dezvoltă pe stratul gros de deficienţe şi probleme nerezolvate ale lumii dezvoltate pe care o contestă . este pentru autoare un prilej de a parcurge lista slăbiciunilor civilizaţiei actuale şi costul ridicat al recurgerii la metode ineficiente şi eronate în combaterea fenomenului terorist . „ sărăcia , încrederea scăzută , conflictele etnice şi sociale , inegalitatea politică , susţinută de intoleranţa etnică şi de radicalism şi manipulare de lideri maniaci nu arată un semn de declin în viitor . ”
iată de ce , pe lângă celelalte merite ale sale , cartea dr .
virginia mircea aduce o contribuţie esenţială la studiile prospective , ce trebuie întreprinse ca simple cerinţe ale supravieţuirii . © 2010 cadran politic · rss · designed by theme junkie · powered by wordpress bus hijacking suspect has other recent criminal charges - fox16.com little rock , ar a couple if things come to mind ..
was the sherwood officers car unlocked with his issued shotgun inside ?
if so he needs to be reprimanded regardless if it was his personal car or not .
next , why was this guy not locked up already ?
us may use romanian airbase for afghan pulloutthe express tribune 04 : 25 18-oct-13 hmas melbourne catches speedboat pirates off africaherald sunaustralian navy apprehends suspectedmarinelinksee all 6 sourcesrelated piracy in somalia somalia : somalia slowly turning the corner to economic stabilitymidnimo information centernation celebrates national flag daygarowe onlinesee realtime coveragesee all 8 sourcesrelated abdi farah shirdon saaid " but on the other hand , the challenge is fuel is rising very fast , so how quickly you can hedge , and how quickly you can pass on the costs are important , " he pointed out. to stay in ] [ bars & pubs ] [ bangkok for information and materials for rcia please visit the association for catechumenal ministry ( acm ) website ! you can also find out more about rcia by visiting acm 's blog " the blog that 's all about rcia " what is rcia ?
below you can read a series of 6 articles which explain clearly and succinctly what rcia is all about .
these articles can also be found on the above acm website.article 1 - to the threshold and to the fullness : what is the rcia supposed to be ? article 2 - starting fires in the rcia : precatechumenate catechesis and apologeticsarticle 3 - grace elevating nature : liturgical elements of the rcia catechumenate periodarticle 4 - the standard of teaching : catechesis in the rcia catechumenate periodarticle 5 - preparing to receive the life of god : rcia catechesis in the period of purification and enlightenmentarticle 6 - deepening in the graces received : rcia catechesis in the period of post-baptismal catechesis or mystagogy western sahara crude oil consumption by year ( thousand barrels per day ) only on fox16arkansas ' most wantedemail alertsfamily healthgood day arkansasgood earth green houseidol chatterjob alertlive weather camerasmobilenewslinksneighborhood crime trackerpolitical newsrants and raveswhat 's going aroundmayflower oil spillstop bullyinggood day arkansasmarketplacecomparative shoppingcouponsdirectory - seek it localfind a homefind a jobfree classifieds - seek it local lifestyle guidesmobile phone applicationcommunitybse remindercontestsrants and ravessite commentssponsorship requesttv tools for parentsviewer photos and videosviral videoeventsbig dam bridge 100light the nightstop bullyingfeatured links90 seconds in the kitchencommunity eventscw arkansasel latinofox networkidol chattergood earth green househogs & sec videolottery resultsnewslinkspump patrol - gas pricessevere weather guideyou decidearkansas timesabout uscontact usemail alertsfox16 news biosfox16 jobs / internshipsinergize digital networkprogram guideclosed caption concernsadvertise with uslive weather camerascontestsmayflower oil spill your it workers may not be as happy as you think thu oct 17 , 2013 6 : 29 pm edt port townsend to end offensive name , as nfl keeps it alive fri oct 18 , 2013 02 : 29 am edt police seek help in identifying bellingham rioters thu oct 17 , 2013 8 : 29 pm edt doc rescinds release plan for steven powell tue oct 15 , 2013 6 : 29 pm edt do you recognize these accused bellingham rioters ?
fri oct 18 , 2013 12 : 29 am edt north bend man found dead in water off bellevue thu oct 17 , 2013 10 : 29 pm edt burlington ’ s prolific holiday decorator gets scare of her own thu oct 17 , 2013 8 : 29 pm edt charge : boeing subcontractor paid for ’ inside info ’ worth millions tue oct 8 , 2013 12 : 29 pm edt what if car boss mulally took over at microsoft ?
tue oct 8 , 2013 2 : 29 pm edt microsoft says ceo ballmer to retire in 12 months fri aug 23 , 2013 10 : 29 am edt ex-con who killed his renton grandparents pleads for leniency fri oct 18 , 2013 12 : 29 am edt four women plead not guilty to vicious belltown beating thu oct 17 , 2013 8 : 29 pm edt washington ’ s most wanted fugitives and sex offenders thu oct 17 , 2013 8 : 29 pm edt official : airbus jet had uncontained engine failure wed oct 16 , 2013 8 : 29 pm edt large panel falls off belly of air india dreamliner tue oct 15 , 2013 10 : 29 pm edt fire displaces 14 in unincorporated snohomish county fri oct 18 , 2013 12 : 29 am edt vocations and priestly formation > priesthooddiscernmentwhat is a vocation ? the word " vocation " comes from the latin word " vocare " .
this means a calling , and invitation .
god created us and he is actively involved in our life .
god is always calling us to be what he created us to be .
a vocation is our call , our invitation to follow him.do i have a vocation ? is god calling me ?
yes .
god calls every person to himself .
we could say that god calls us to be one of his children , a disciple , a saint ( holy ) , a servant , and a great lover .
these five universal calls are lived out in one of four vocational paths or lifestyles .
because god created us for happiness , we will never experience the full joy that god intends for us unless we live out our call in the vocational path or lifestyle that he placed within us at conception.what is my vocation ? simply put , our vocation is to know , love , and serve god completely so that we may be happy here on earth and with him in heaven for all eternity .
we are made for god .
we a foreigner legally married to a thai citizen qualifies for a non-immigrant the bank and non immigrant visa .
you need to show bank statements and not necessarily from thailand eg singapore is ok as with vientianne but take 2 .
applicants must not have been adjudged mentally incapacitated as to negate to marry a thai citizen or a foreigner , you must : ( $ us55 or baht equivalent ) at the embassy or consulate .
chiangmai services are if i marry a thai-lady and make it officially in foreigner own business or property then we suggest to seek a prenuptial the house belongs to the one who owns the land .
of course the person who rents land and builds a house on it , can dismantle and move it to another location as long as it is allowed by the land lease .
in this 3 ) if married she can still buy a house but the husband must sign at the land and that if they divorce the house will not go to him ( also the wife must sign at the the law has now changed !
she can buy land provided her husband signs a declaration that he lays no claim to it. in the lanna kingdom of chiangmai where we can set up. to marry in the traditional old ways in a beautiful country .
a legal wedding fee would be it can take us up to 3-7 days to process .
you then choose to have an odd number of monks who will preside over the & 6th vacancy is buddha so offering to them can be in the form of money in a foreigner as best man ? one can say a few words in english and then the wrists in the land of smiles one can have a beautiful a truely happy occasion .
budget at about 10,000-20,000 baht depending on how everything from plates to cutlery to tables and chairs .
we can also arrange to land ?
yes 1 rai if he / she invests 40m baht .
can if he / she has a land ?
yes a good alternative to buying if one cannot predict their the children can inherit her share but it protects the foreigner as he / she has no rights if no lease and the wife dies first .
an usufruct is even a better way of securing your property and now is the best way for foreigners buying [ roperty in thailand. house ?
yes he can own the house outright .
all monies coming in over as being his / her money for the transaction .
it is a safeguard for you in case of she has a will then the children will inherit .
it pays to ask a lawyer to make his / her next of kin ?
yes if the house and land is held in a company. safeguard my investment ?
yes see our lawyer who can make prenuptial account ?
we say no as either or can withdraw & many foreigners seller 's lawyer if i buy a house or land ?
no as he or she will not be working girlfreind or wife if i buy a house or land ?
no use a lawyer to clear for you and transfer .
some land depts are known to support the thai if you qu : costs to divorce if have to go to court ?
most lawyers to assist in a divorce case will charge a starting fee of 80,000baht plus ?
it all depends on the complexity of the court case--where it is to be conducted etc .
qu : can you perform buddhist traditional wedding for m ?
yes if you want to marry in thailand we can arrange everything for you from monks chanting to whatever you want .
1 / .
write to nz embassy for the form .
fees are countries and many you cannot get visas at the airport any more .. path for my girl to come to the uk .
we 're not married , but i 'm hoping a is see if she can be live in england ( and with me full-time ! ) .
if ok then we you could go for a fiance visa .
that will give her 6 months in the uk during which time you decide if you want to marry or not - and marry .
it is then in a bbc documentary 5 / 6 years ago the programme showed applicants at the embassy and one guy in his 30s applied for his thai girl who was 15 and had a child was allowed a fiancee visa ! ! !
she lied about her age , claiming she was the 2nd case concerned the oap in his 70s , one brian clegg a retired british gas embassy awarded them a visa ! .
they met thru a bkk dating agency and spent a few days in the hotel bed weeks later cleared off and found a job in a thai restaurant somewhere in so you see applicants who should never get a visa may get one , and those who honghong : hong kong is one of the a.s.e.a.n. and no visa is required , or at least that is the theory , i took a girl there and i got 6 difficult .
if you 're going to be working in hong kong , the best way may be for you to " employ " her on a 2-year contract as a domestic helper .
she 'll then be able to get a long term visa to allow her to stay for a year , extendable for another year to the end of the contract .
she will not be allowed to work for separation : [ divorcing ] [ thai visa to the usa ] immigrant visas ] [ lawyer costs & services ] [ visas ] [ work permits ] [ companies ] [ limited partnerships ] [ tourist visas ] [ residency visa ] [ 1 year visa ] [ thai license ] [ company tax ] [ income tax ] [ company vat ] [ read expats newsboard ] [ chiangmai ] [ condos & rentals ] [ leasing land ] [ thai products ] [ arriving bangkok ] [ see online ads ] [ back to exporters list ] [ chiangmai ] [ fishing ] [ clothing ] [ aircraft ownership ] [ oil paintings ] [ wood doors ] [ motorcycle exports ] [ spare wheel covers ] [ canned food products ] [ renting or buying real estate ] [ sandstone ] [ ice boxes & eskies ] [ bike t shirts ] [ jeans & designer wear ] [ designer jeans ] i toolboxes i russian helicopter sales i wheelie bins i portable homes / offices ] [ genuine home furniture plastics company ] [ shop & showroom fittings ] [ china minibikes & off roaders ] [ oil paintings & reproductions ] [ funeral rotomolded windows & doors ] [ digital keyless door locks ] [ flipflops ] [ parquet flooring ] [ baby and children clothes ] [ rubber keyrings ] [ t shirts / polo shirts ] [ exporting cars & pickups ] [ tank tops ] [ lacquerware of privacy and our company will act accordingly .
see faqs comoros news headlines comoros : dã © claration de la mission des services du fmi dans l 'union des comores [ imf ] une équipe des services du fonds monétaire international ( fmi ) a séjourné à moroni du 17 septembre au 1er octobre pour des entretiens sur la sixième revue de l ’ accord au titre de la facilité élargie de crédit ( fec ) 1 en faveur de l ’ union des comores . ( 10 / 1 / 2013 12 : 33 : 26 pm ) uae - prostitute accuses man of ripping her clothes off lebanon stays with esd for now fri oct 18 , 2013 02 : 24 am edt crowd greets motorcade for fallen philomath soldier cody patterson fri oct 18 , 2013 12 : 24 am edt hundreds pay tribute as motorcade escorts philomath soldier ’ s remains thu oct 17 , 2013 10 : 24 pm edt motorcade to honor fallen soldier thu oct 17 , 2013 10 : 24 pm edt a show of respect wed oct 16 , 2013 2 : 24 pm edt crowd greets motorcade for fallen philomath soldier cody patterson thu oct 17 , 2013 10 : 24 pm edt hundreds pay tribute as motorcade escorts philomath soldier ’ s remains thu oct 17 , 2013 8 : 24 pm edt chad drive sitepicked for clinic fri mar 1 , 2013 04 : 24 am est wounded vets to go on float down the rogue fri oct 18 , 2013 06 : 24 am edt judge cites ’ brutality ’ in sentencing man to prison fri oct 18 , 2013 06 : 24 am edt making the grade fri oct 18 , 2013 06 : 24 am edt man arrested in kelsoshooting mon oct 7 , 2013 12 : 24 pm edt sw corridor plan stirs upcontroversy mon oct 7 , 2013 12 : 24 pm edt tim becker ’ s life atlarge mon oct 7 , 2013 12 : 24 pm edt blazers rookie mccollum fracturesfoot mon oct 7 , 2013 10 : 24 am edt timbers draw 2-2 withwhitecaps mon oct 7 , 2013 10 : 24 am edt douglas county moms tue sep 10 , 2013 8 : 24 pm edt oregon ’ s uninsured population drops 10 % fri oct 18 , 2013 06 : 24 am edt titans ’ dual threat fri oct 18 , 2013 06 : 24 am edt site map | terms of use | privacy statement | copyright & trademark notice | eeo in contrast , the so-called united states has lived through 17 shutdowns of its not-so-united government since 1976 .
we really could use a stern , bossy matron who can administer to washington 's brawling miscreants the spanking they so deserve .
alas , all we 're going to get is … janet yellen .
of course , picking janet yellen -- who mike o 'rourke of jones trading calls " the embodiment of the easy-money wing of the fed " -- to succeed ben bernanke all but ratifies washington 's plan to keep printing money .
a credible budget will do wonders , but no matter .
fiscal failure and impotent governance can put pressure on yellen to live up to her reputation for " continuity " -- she can continue to hold up the economy .
she can be bernanke 2.0 .
klimt restitution claim puts austria 's art law to the test telekom austria is set to pull out of the bidding for serbian cable operator sbb due to uncertainty over how much it will have to pay for new frequencies on its home turf , a source close to the matter ... ( 10 / 9 / 2013 10 : 46 : 06 am ) mark gongloff is chief financial writer at the huffington post .
he was previously a reporter , editor and blogger at the wall street journal and cnn / money .
he can be reached at mark.gongloff @ huffingtonpost.com.
we don 't need a functioning government to tell us that the job market is lousy .
but we do need one to help make the job market better .
it 's the first friday of the month , usually the day we get a bunch of random numbers from the government telling us what ...
we don 't need a jobs report to tell us the job market is lousy here 's why you need to worry about the ipo boom jpmorgan ' london whale ' scandal is more proof it doesn 't pay to be an underling in banking larry summers ' enron connection is yet another reason not to make him fed chairman tim geithner will sort out this whole fed chairman controversy once and for all no , the mcdonald 's mcdouble is not the ' greatest food in human history ' yet another reason to make janet yellen the fed chair : she 's the smartest person at the fed sac capital indictment does not mean the end of ' too big to jail ' the sec sues steven cohen , finally , but criminal charges may be unlikely gao survey finds low morale , disarray at sec , wall street 's top watchdog the sec 's trial of fabrice tourre is already in deep trouble the koch brothers would like for you to think of them as warren buffett now july 18 , 2013 the 2013 census of the north sound stingray population was just completed this past week and the news is generally good .
on day two of the census i had a late start as i was able to meet with the new chief officer in the ministry of the environment dr dax basdeo and mla roy mctaggart in the government ...
even though crude oil is trading near multiyear highs , the share prices of oil refiners are sinking fast , and the price at the pump may follow .
film looks at new yorkers who take turns sharing a bed in california , students and parents prefer the new school lunches wow & # 8211 ; what a wild weekend it was in waterton !
a weekend to remember & # 8230 ; for all the wrong reasons rosneft mulls boosting share in belarus oil refinery - interfax belarusians living abroad join the un in calling on belarus to stop ...
rosneft mulls boosting share in belarus oil refinery - interfaxxtra 09 : 14 16-oct-13 write direct to us for coffee supplies as we sell arabic and expresso attention to good farming and processing techniques has helped us grow an arabica coffee in the highlands of thailand .
our coffee is grown at high altitudes and we are exporters of this coffee .
cabana arabica coffee and we are looking for distributors of our coffee labled and packed in november 2010 season ready for xmas this essence of coffee is in our cup .
the flavour however can be damaged by moisture , light and especially by oxygen .
roasting is a skill and art but we do it to perfection .
too much heat and the beans are roasted too dark and too much caffeol is burnt ; not enough and the caffeol is not precipitated.the higher the roast , the more uniform the resulting flavour .
the different kinds of roast include light or low , medium and dark or high .
6 . choice & # 8212 ; you can choose to advertise in any or all of our regional editions ( bc , alberta , manitoba / saskatchewan and ontario ) .
baby ’ s body found in teen ’ s bag at victoria ’ s secret thu oct 17 , 2013 11 : 21 pm edt body of baby found in teen ’ s bag at victoria ’ s secret thu oct 17 , 2013 5 : 21 pm edt new surveillance in case of body found on beach thu oct 17 , 2013 09 : 21 am edt gonzalez : witness testifies in citytime case fri oct 18 , 2013 03 : 01 am edt chiara de blasio responds to lhotas attacks in new ad fri oct 18 , 2013 03 : 01 am edt anti-de blasio advocacy group has gop ties fri oct 18 , 2013 05 : 21 am edt colbert roasts pols and prelates at charity dinner fri oct 18 , 2013 05 : 21 am edt backpedal on yeshiva teachers sex abuse plea fri oct 18 , 2013 05 : 21 am edt bail denied in nyu rape try fri oct 18 , 2013 03 : 21 am edt a literary festival means no effrontery to brooklyn thu oct 17 , 2013 11 : 21 pm edt grieving father finds an outlet in his music thu oct 17 , 2013 11 : 21 pm edt police say shoplifters had fetus in bag thu oct 17 , 2013 11 : 21 pm edt li man scammed online date : police fri oct 18 , 2013 05 : 21 am edt nycha tenants may be forced to move thu oct 17 , 2013 11 : 21 pm edt fallen firefighter mourned by fdny thu oct 17 , 2013 9 : 21 pm edt infrared cameras used in search for avonte oquendo thu oct 17 , 2013 9 : 21 pm edt this news gave us pause , and he grinned at our suggestion that his approach was a tad obsessive .
it has never been his philosophy to have a vision and delegate it to others , he says .
" you 've got to stay really close and set it off in the right direction , " he adds .
" i 'm a real micromanager , as well as a strategist , so when you start new enterprises you have to have the right touch . "
the schwarzman scholarship 's aim is to create an international network of " thought leaders " -- 10,000 alumni in 50 years -- who are culturally and philosophically steeped in china .
be captivated by the pristine landscape of antarctica and the abundant wildlife of south georgia from the comforts of a luxury , state-of-the-art vessel with kayaks and world-class guides .
wimco announces its top 5 new villas on st barts for 2014 ; all include access to unmatched concierge services seasick steve , jessie ware and soul ii soul don 't quite measure up to emeli sande , the wombats and the charlatans .
most are in agreement thatmerton farmhas kept its intimate flavour .
" even though the line up is not as good this time , the atmosphere is still amazing . "
" last year there were a lot of good bands on and you can get a lot closer and see them .
when it is a big festival you are quite far away .
" a lot of it is family orientated as well .
it ’ s just chilled out . "
" because it ’ s local , your friends can come with you and it is not too far to travel . "
that is why lounge has still got it spot onthis year .
the opening of the beach hut village in herne bay will be a big moment for the seaside town .
it could mark the beginning of a shift in fortunes when the ribbon is cut by sandi toksvig , much-loved back in the day as a captain on call my bluff with the late kent broadcaster bob holness .
it will be the first step in regenerating a town which has suffered a series of false starts .
yet the first shoots of a new start are appearing .
so turn up for the launch this weekend .
you could be in at the start of something big .
east kent ’ s bid to become the uk ’ s city of culture in 2017 was as likely as dover athletic becoming romanabramovich 'snext project to squander his millions .
why the negative attitude ?
well for the same reason you had a negative attitude .
east kent is not a place .
at least then , thedecision-makers would have been able to identify with the ’ city ’ they were supposed to be assessing .
and would it not have been ok anyway to shoehorn in a mention of margate ’ s turner contemporary , folkestone ’ s triennial art installations and whitstable ’ s oysters , as was surely the aim of lumping together a series of towns which , on the whole , are not really that bothered about each other .
but are dundee , hull , leicester and swansea bay really all that superior culturally to the towns and cities we are already proud of in the county ?
is it not a sad indictment of our society that readers are most engaged with their local media when they are on the hunt for a minor celebrity ?
as scores of people gathered to try and catch a glimpse of the reality tv ’ star ’ , no one questioned whether it was worth all this fuss for a bloke whose biggest – and only – hit single came out in 1995 .
so the expectations for lounge were high , as it looked set to claim the crown of kent ’ s biggest music festival .
the four stars agreed to attend the screening as a favour to writer damon , who grew up in new barn and went to longfield upper school .
the q & a got off to a spluttering start , as a couple of the mics did not work and the panel were flummuxed with some bizarre questions .
the greatest pleasure of interviewing inbetweeners co-creator and writer damon beesley was finding out that the stuff viewers didn ’ t see on camera was just as funny as what made it onto tv in the bafta-winning show .
ahead of talking to fans at a q & a and screening of the inbetweeners movie , damonrevealed his sense of humour was still equally as juvenileas that ofwill , simon , jay and neil . & ldquo ; when we were filming on the boat for the field trip episode and joe had to stand naked , there was a quite a lot of concern for him because it was freezing cold in january . & ldquo ; in the scene , he falls into the water and they have to take all his clothes off because he is going to get hypothermia and at one point he stands up naked , to wave back at the land . & ldquo ; we all fell about laughing and because it was so funny , during the edit we wrote in a few lines to the script that neil [ played by blake harrison ] had put a sock over his parts – why would you do that ? & ldquo ; but it was brilliant and it made a good joke . & rdquo ; rarely do you get to see the spectacular tunes of the early days of rock and roll performed live .
save the last dance for me is based on the music of songwriting duo doc pomus and mort shuman and is the latest in a line of new jukebox musical to hit the stage .
the finale of the story , save the last dance for me , is a bittersweet gem , when its remembered as a lament from crutch bound doc pomus , who had polio as a child , and was never able to dance .
the man at the top of the uk ’ s largest independent theatre company and the everton fc chairman – a bit random in many people ’ s eyes – launches his latest jukebox musical save the last dance for me in kent this week .
why did you choose to launch save the last dance for me in dartford rather than a big west end theatre or one in a larger city ? & ldquo ; [ i see myself as ] a provincial theatre producer who has big broadway and west end successes .
i love the audiences out there .
when do you know whether a show is going to be a success ?
so after the success of dreamboats and petticoats , is a similar type of musical like save the last dance for me not too much of a risk ? & ldquo ; you never see a show that does not cost half a million , so that is a bit of a risk . & rdquo ; & ldquo ; because i think they will recoup one day .
it is called a nervous hit .
when it is not quite a flop and not quite a hit and just , is there .
the audience are enjoying it but you are not making a lot of money and you decide you are going to live with it for a little while .
are people stuggling to go out to the theatre now ? & ldquo ; yes i do think times are very tough financially and now you have got all the colossal distractions of what you can see on your tv , your dvd and you ipads .
it is extraordinary what is out there .
for people to go and see shows is an effort .
that is why you have got to try to find something that an audience responds to . & rdquo ; all of this istoppedoff with baby-faced sticksman callum norton .
what more could a fan want ?
perhaps it was just me – my mate told me he felt like the same thing was happening to him – but when i watched , drinking in their sound , i had to avert my eyes .
dale was looking me in the face the whole time .
it was uncomfortable .
as palma violets went on to prove , the positives of intimate venues far outweight any negatives .
perhaps it never felt awkward because chilli was too busy focussing his attention on guitarist sam fryer , as they try toestablish themselvesas the new pete doherty and carl barat .
want to know what ’ s on in the music industry in kent ?
want to know what ’ s on in your local theatres ?
want to know what ’ s really going on with the stars coming to the county who speak to the km group ’ s what ’ s on supplement every week ?
this is the place to find out .
from last minute shows to views on all the entertainment stuff going on in the county , this is the place to find out the real picturewith exclusive images , reviews and all the juicy bits of a-list gossip that didn ’ t make it into the paper .
follow chris on twitter : @ thechrisprice .
got a bee in your bonnet ? if you have a voice , and would like it to be heard , why not consider writing a blog for our site ?
click here to send us a message and let us know !
religion in schools ?
let ’ s concentrate on sorting out this world kent links / blogskentonlinekmfmkent businessin a kentish villageankeeastcliff richardthanet lifesix home ed in kentbig news margatethe green bicycle activistuniversity of kent blogsmedway resident - john m wardmusings from medwayshepway chairman 's blogthe all day breakfastmedway towns district scoutscreative foundationmedway eyestwuttle - royal tunbridge wells social media cafewhitstable umbrella community centrehazlitt arts centremargate harbour armramsgate arts dailykent youth theatrekent today & yesterdaykevin lynesfolkestone geraldwhitstable sunsetskent film officetunbridge wells forumi love whitstablekent weatherisleoneeastcliffe mattersmadkentdragonspacious & graciouskent today and yesterdaybignewsmargatetravelling the world on wheelswitwitwoobeauty for all budgetsthe grumpy commutertonbridge blogthe woodies blogmichael 's bookshopthanet online its current facilities in el paso are hemmed in by the city , but the new mexico location offers the company plenty of room to grow .
the new terminal will let the company fuel its trains , inspect them and switch crews all in the same place .
coordinating infrastructure on both sides of the border can be difficult , and santa teresa ’ s backers say a key selling point for the new mexican project is the shared plan with the mexican state of chihuahua .
“ we put a big emphasis on recruiting businesses into texas , but we don ’ t do it in a negative way , ” steen said .
“ we enjoy the competition .
sometimes it works in your favor , and sometimes it goes against you . ”
“ all our states do — and that ’ s what they ’ re supposed to do — compete with one another , ” martinez said .
businesses can “ go anywhere in the world .
we want them to look at new mexico . ” engaged in a civil war driven by hostilities between hutu and tutsi peoples from un and chair of the burundi configuration of the un peacebuilding commission reconciliation commission to be operational by january 2012 and to establish a judicial mechanism to address impunity after the trc has completed its work , " said landgren , " these are important commitments .
the government has underlined to bnub that the trc process must be grounded in reconciliation and not in score seger said that the pbc is supportive of the creation of is also a way of tackling the present and the future too , " he said , " it 's but i think we are on the right track and ready to support the country there . " justice to un high commissioner for human rights navi pillay in geneva on may 3 .
a trip to the alps is something jeff fuidge never considered , but after visiting chamonix and megève and annecy , he 's had a change of heart .
dreamland is a step closer to returning to margate as thanet district council move forwards in the process .
if you are fortunate enough to be able to go on a long summer holiday , use our guide to the perfect european destinations to while away the days .
des algériens mangent en public en plein ramadan , une première plus de 500 algériens ont mangé et bu en public en plein ramadan samedi dans la ville " rebelle " de tizi ouzou , dans une première action collective du genre pour marquer leur liberté de choix face à " l 'islamisation " du pays .
" il y a un climat de terreur qui règne contre ceux qui ne jeûnent pas " durant le mois de jeûne sacré musulman du ramadan , dénonce à l 'afp l 'un d 'eux , ali , la quarantaine , un technicien de cette ville kabyle située à 100 km d 'alger. acquiesce .
" il faut que la religion reste du domaine du privé " , dit-il en parmi les participants à cette action , figurent des citoyens sans affiliation et des militants politiques , surtout berbères , qui n 'hésitent pas à afficher le un étudiant de 18 ans , lounès , va encore plus loin en arborant une pancarte sur laquelle est écrit : " je ne suis pas arabe .
je ne suis pas obligé d 'être la ville de tizi ouzou a été le théâtre de troubles parfois sanglants liés aux revendications culturelles et identitaires des kabyles qui ont très mal vécu face à un public essentiellement jeune et masculin , armé de bouteilles d 'eau , de jus , de pain , de cigarettes et même de bières pour l 'un d 'eux , le président du mouvement pour l 'autonomie de la kabylie ( mak ) , bouaziz aït chebib , a revendiqué " l 'attachement ancestral " des kabyles " à la liberté de conscience " . de la religion " , lance-t-il , applaudi par les manifestants postés devant la préfecture sur le principal axe routier de cette ville de quelque 150.000 habitants , sans le moindre contrôle apparent de forces de sécurité .
et d 'annoncer que des manifestations similaires sont prévues ce jour à bejaïa , ville portuaire kabyle , et même en france et au canada , où vivent d 'importantes pendant le ramadan durant lequel les musulmans s 'abstiennent de boire , de manger , de fumer et d 'avoir des relations sexuelles du lever jusqu 'au coucher du soleil , les restaurants sont ouverts seulement dans les hôtels de luxe , et les autorités tout autant que les religieux incitent la population à respecter le jusque dans les années 1980 , dans les villes au moins , les restaurants étaient ouverts et ne jeûnaient que ceux qui le voulaient .
la guerre anti-islamiste de plus de dix ans ( à partir des années 1990 ) a changé la donne .
depuis , la société civile et nombre de partis d 'opposition avec le printemps arabe qui a vu l 'arrivée au pouvoir d 'islamistes dans ce rassemblement à tizi ouzou , l 'une des principales villes de kabylie , a été lancé dans la foulée d 'un contrôle de police effectué sur dénonciation le 19 juillet dans un bar fermé d 'une commune proche , tigzirt , où des jeunes déjeunaient .
le propriétaire , qui s 'était vu retirer sa licence , a finalement pu le wali de tizi ouzou , abdelkader bouazeghi , avait alors expliqué qu 'il ce n 'était pas la première fois que des mesures au moins vexatoires étaient prises contre des non jeûneurs .
des chrétiens algériens se sont même retrouvés devant la justice ces dernières années pour avoir refusé de faire carême .
" quelque 80 & percnt des algériens sont d 'accord avec ceux qui protestent contre le pouvoir grandissant des religieux dans le pays " , dit le technicien ali .
pour hamid , un retraité de tizi ouzou venu exprimer son soutien au mouvement , " il faut bien mettre un holà à tout cela : on ne peut pas forcer tout le monde à aller au paradis " , la fin ultime " promise " à tout pratiquant .
regulation on access to genetic resources to be negotiated by the eu co-legislators the future of eu battlegroups to be discussed in london lithuania signed an international agreement on mercury on behalf of the eu how do wireless providers stack up in greater cincinnati ?
thu oct 17 , 2013 4 : 23 pm edt part of the banks sold thu oct 17 , 2013 4 : 23 pm edt ceos talk obamacare thu oct 17 , 2013 4 : 23 pm edt kroger names new president to wrap up succession plan thu oct 17 , 2013 2 : 23 pm edt as she snapped the picture , a bullet hit the president fri oct 18 , 2013 06 : 23 am edt croushore running for county clerk fri oct 18 , 2013 06 : 23 am edt volumes of chills await fri oct 18 , 2013 06 : 23 am edt broadhope marks anniversary , move to new location fri oct 18 , 2013 06 : 23 am edt tea partymeeting with legislators fri oct 18 , 2013 06 : 23 am edt rehab finished , but doc says no fishing yet fri oct 18 , 2013 06 : 23 am edt ’ good guys ’ loiter to cut down on violent crime fri oct 18 , 2013 04 : 23 am edt lift up failing schools , cps hopefuls say fri oct 18 , 2013 02 : 23 am edt cpd investigates shooting near park in otr fri oct 18 , 2013 12 : 23 am edt key to the cure community event fri oct 18 , 2013 02 : 23 am edt man shot in over the rhine fri oct 18 , 2013 02 : 23 am edt parents say son ’ s suicide brought on by bullies thu oct 17 , 2013 10 : 23 pm edt key to the cure community event fri oct 18 , 2013 06 : 23 am edt attack victim thinks she was fri oct 18 , 2013 02 : 23 am edt cdc back at work to track the flu fri oct 18 , 2013 02 : 23 am edt writes vardy : " although you can 't go out and buy thousands of acres of new zealand and romanian rain forests like harvard , you can buy an etf that invests in timber stocks like guggenheim timber etf country music legend mel tillis at the capitol civic centre in manitowoc state commissioners ask epa for stricter vehicle and fuel standards even in the age of etfs , alan whitman of morgan stanley is a big believer in selecting individual stocks for each of his clients .
avoiding the perils of " over-diversification . "
report : states not expanding medicaid to create coverage gap thu oct 17 , 2013 1 : 10 pm edt biotech cormatrix raises nearly $ 25m thu oct 17 , 2013 1 : 10 pm edt air marshal accused of taking photos up women ’ s dresses at bna fri oct 18 , 2013 05 : 10 am edt feds challenge new trial in katrina shootings fri oct 18 , 2013 03 : 10 am edt friday ’ s weather in atlanta fri oct 18 , 2013 01 : 10 am edt delta air lines booking website , apps in and out thu oct 17 , 2013 7 : 10 pm edt clarkston councilwoman indicted for embezzlement thu oct 17 , 2013 11 : 10 pm edt father william fournier was ordained to the priesthood on june 9 , 1973 , by bishop paul anderson for the oblates of mary immaculate .
in 1992 , he entered the diocese of duluth and was incardinated to the diocese in 1994 .
father fournier served as the director of communications and as auditor in the tribunal for the diocese of duluth and was a board member for st. ann ’ s residence in duluth .
msgr. alexander suchan was ordained to the priesthood at the cathedral in katowic , poland , in 1988 .
sterne agee downgraded the analytics firm to neutral from buy .
wedbush notes a dearth of government-agency personnel to receive equipment. epublished by pressmart [ digital magazine publishing ] top 100 independent advisors - barrons.com zier helped a client buy a herd of bison for his ranch in montana .
now he gets periodic gifts of bison jerky as a thank you they may offer support during times of stress , but for now they are " dead money " within a portfolio , he says .
" i never feel annoyed or upset that i have to get up or go to the office .
i 'm getting paid to do what i like to do anyway – help people , and talk about the markets . "
now that he 's older and wiser , zier accepts that knowledge like that can be elusive .
" the market is always changing ; it 's like a puzzle or a game that you can never win because someone rewrites the rules or hides a piece , and you have to go back to try to figure out what has happened , " he says .
" but at least i now feel that i understand the principles and how it works . "
lapann has only recently hired a manager who uses dividend-paying stocks .
" i had to ask myself , have i been missing out on something here by being a contrarian ? "
" it was almost a given that lapann would hang out his own shingle after a spell in portfolio management at pell rudman : he hails from a long line of entrepreneurs .
at the other end of the spectrum , lapann is hiring managers to scour the landscape for companies that are growing sustainably at a more rapid clip than the global economy .
one is swedish radiation-therapy equipment manufacturer elekta francais 's lowest grades in college were in accounting and taxation -- but he ended up as a tax partner at deloitte before moving on to aspiriant .
an entrepreneur asked francais to help him identify which of his two sons , rivals since childhood , was best-suited to take over the reins at the family-owned firm .
" one of the sons called one of the interviews i did ' the spanish inquisition , ' " he says .
the transition was successful and all the family members are still speaking to each other . "
the best bet in stocks now , he maintains , are blue-chips with the ability to access new markets and use technology to cut costs ; apple as a teenager , brighton saw people in his parents ' well-off social circle – ivy league-educated , working as professionals – make big financial errors .
so he resolved at an early age that he wouldn 't do the same .
if your shipment has been received by customs and you refuse it because you will not pay the tariffs or taxes , we will refund you the cost of the product after charging you for the shipping and additional fees required to return the package to us .
can back taxes cost me my driver ’ s license ? -- stateline new york is not offering any formal amnesty , but the state tax department website does dangle a carrot : if the delinquents pay up under the “ voluntary disclosure and compliance program , ” they can work out a payment plan for the taxes and interest owed .
they also can avoid penalties and possible criminal charges by pledging to pay their taxes on time in the future .
alaska lowered its interest rate on delinquent payments as an incentive for tax delinquents to come forward .
“ my intuition tells me they are not likely to be very effective in attracting new dollars , ” fox said .
“ and it raises a huge risk in terms of behavior . ”
the end of the neo-liberal age , or the return to the left the vision of aurelio peccei and its implications for our future this speech has been delivered by roberto d. peccei & # 8211 ; vice chancellor for research at the university of california los angeles and son of aurelio peccei , founder of the club of rome – at the conference “ the global crisis as seen by aurelio peccei ” organized by the romanian association for the club of rome on 15th march 2011 at the national bank of romania in bucharest .
i can ‘ t to comment about the feelings of the president & # 8211 ; it is generally unacceptable .... © 2012 cadran politic · rss · designed by theme junkie · powered by wordpresssearch indexmundi vatican ii , gravissimum educationis introduction ) & ldquo ; & hellip ; the duty of educating belongs to the church , not merely because she must be recognized as a human society capable of educating , but especially because she has the responsibility of announcing the way of salvation to all men , of communicating the life of christ to those who believe , and , in her unfailing solicitude , of assisting men to be able to come to the fullness of this life .
the church is bound as a mother to give to these children of hers an education by which their whole life can be imbued with the spirit of christ and at the same time do all she can to promote for all peoples the complete perfection of the human person , the good of earthly society and the building of a world that is more human . & rdquo ; ( vous surfez sur un appareil portable ?
rendez-vous sur m.huffingtonpost.com pour consulter les pages mobiles du huffington post .
politique -manuel valls traverse sa première crise sérieuse .
il l 'aborde avec de solides atouts : il est , dans tous les baromètres d 'opinion , la personnalité politique la plus populaire ; mieux encore , il devance le président de la république et le premier ministre de 20 à 30 points .
mais l 'affaire leonarda , venant après des déclarations controversées sur les roms , présente des risques réels pour le ministre de l 'intérieur : la cristallisation d 'une partie de la gauche contre lui et , par un retournement dont la mécanique est désormais éprouvée , le retournement de ses qualités en défauts- il était énergique , il serait excessif ; il était ferme , il serait rigide ; il était volontaire , il serait emporté .
ministre déléguée auprès du ministre du redressement productif , chargée des pme , de l ’ innovation et de l ’ économie numérique leonarda - cette année , le gouvernement offre une occasion en or de protester pour avancer les vacances de quelques jours : la petite leonarda arrêtée pendant une sortie scolaire -ne pouvait-on attendre la fin de l 'école , et en l 'occurrence de la sortie , pour faire respecter la loi ? - et reconduite au kosovo , d 'où elle ne serait peut-être même pas originaire ?
leonarda - ce que révèle " l 'affaire léonarda " , c 'est avant tout les difficultés de la politique d 'asile dans notre pays .
dans le contexte politique et médiatique actuel , cette problématique mérite davantage d 'être éclaircie et replacée dans sa véritable perspective plutôt que d 'être jetée en pâture .
roms - hallucinante , cette hystérie collective , qui fait d 'une poignée de va-nu-pieds un danger pour la république et sa cohésion sociale .
a raison de 17.000 roms pour 36.000 communes , soit moins d 'un demi rom par commune , le pays subirait-il un choc démographique majeur ?
n 'avons-nous pas assez de vrais problèmes pour nous inventer , en plus , de nouveaux loup-garous ?
maître de conférences en sciences du langage à l ’ université de cergy-pontoise justice - suppression des peines plancher qui contraignaient les magistrats dans leur choix idoine de la sanction , création de la contrainte pénale ( appliquée dans la communauté ) et de la libération sous contrainte , sans perdre de vue les contraintes budgétaires .
fondateur de sporteens " le sport pour vos enfants " , consultant contenus sport chez msl paris , ancien directeur des rédactions de l 'équipe docteur en science et professeur ordinaire à l 'université libre de bruxelles .
sommelier , spécialiste du vin et de la bière vin - médoc , saint-julien , pauillac , sauternes , saint-emilion ... des noms prestigieux , situés dans la plus grande région en appellations d 'origines contrôlées de france .
au xxie siècle , ne faudrait-il pas bousculer quelque peu les codes ?
avocat directeur au sein du pôle droit social de vaughan avocats politique - la fonction présidentielle est devenue une illusion d 'efficacité et une réalité de médiocrité .
illusion d 'efficacité parce que ces bataillons de préfets , de recteurs , de directeurs d 'administration le petit doigt sur la couture du pantalon , prêts à réagir nuit et jour aux décisions présidentielles ne produisent plus que quelques clapotis sur l 'océan de la mondialisation .
professeur d 'histoire contemporaine à l 'université claude bernard lyon 1 et à l 'ecole supérieure de pédagogie et d 'education de lyon féminisme - leurs consommations , non plus avouées , mais brandies , deviennent les marques de leur féminité , les emblèmes de leur féminisme .
et si la consommation faisait la nouvelle femme ?
et si la sur-consommation forçait à la reconnaissance sociale ?
leonarda : les lycéens ont surtout une occasion rêvée pour avancer les vacances l 'amalgame ne paye pas ( toujours ) : le fnps n 'est pas l 'umps " les lycéens ont surtout une occasion rêvée pour avancer les vacances " qui est khatchik , le jeune arménien expulsé trois jours après leonarda ? reuters un élu fn condamné pour des commentaires sur son facebookfacebook racisme , laxisme ...
taubira dans le viseur de toutes les droitesdr le fn suspend sa candidate qui comparait taubira à un singefacebook singe , saucisson et islamophobie ... le profil facebook de la candidate fnfacebook taubira comparée à un singe : le " nouveau visage " du fn ? dr les pigeons se font " pigeonner " par amendements sur le budget 2014 on ne laisse pas une ministre enceinte s 'asseoir de peur de paraître " sexiste " reuters le bon côté du shutdown : un renard à la maison blancheluke copeland dès lundi , vous ne pourrez plus échapper à ce radar mobileafp les arguments du front nationalafpquand jean-marie le pen affirme que la crise du porc en bretagne est liée à des pressions musulmanes mariage gay : le conseil constitutionnel exclut la clause de conscience après ses propos sur le fn , delon quitte le comité miss franceafp la soeur de mark zuckerberg critique l 'addiction aux réseaux sociauxreuters " allez les gars , laissez-moi jouer dans un film de super-héros " reuters what makes a person 's story a success story ?
is it fame , is it overcoming great challenges , is it genius ?
if it is , derek 's story is a success story on all levels .
it doesn 't tell me how my son is thriving as a first-grader in an all-inclusive classroom with the aid of a teacher 's assistant .
it doesn 't tell me he enjoys going to the park with friends , his favorite kind of ice cream is a vanilla shake , and how he could shoot baskets for hours with his sisters .
it doesn 't tell me what it feels like to be on the receiving end of his hug , or how his smile lights up a whole room .
it doesn 't tell me his favorite color is purple and what his favorite bedtime stories are . my son is beautiful and my son is complex .
he has down syndrome , but down syndrome doesn 't define the whole of him .
the genius of communication is a powerful gift .
it can turn all of our stories into success stories .
we don 't need fame and we don 't need to be savants to find success .
what we do need is the desire and dedication to go beyond the challenges , whatever they may be , to find the music that is within all of us. the thing about the genius of communication is this : it doesn 't take a genius to get it. need proof ? i 'm no genius. and i get it .
i didn ’ t think at this stage of my life that i would be getting ready to go back to school !
actually , i was invited to attend a colloquium for newly-appointed bishops , to be held in rome from sept .
9-17 , by his eminence cardinal marc ouellet , the new prefect of the congregation for bishops .
i had the great privilege of remembering you , my flock , at the holy places and to the holy father himself .
in particular , i remembered you at the shrine of our lady of the rosary of pompeii , where i offered mass for our diocese and asked our lady ’ s help and protection at the tombs of st. peter and st. paul and to the holy father himself .
dan diaconescu .
fără televiziune îi va fi greu , deja lumea l-a uitat .
pe de altă parte , această uitare îl ferește de gafe și de supraexpunere .
la momentul oportun se vor găsi suficiente televiziuni care să-i preia mesajele excentrice .
în plus , este o categorie de electorat care nu are lider ( deși traian băsescu încearcă să și-l aproprie ) .
15 % .
nicușor dan / claudiu crăciun .
la alegerile locale nicușor dan a obținut aproape 10 % în bucurești .
modul în care evoluează protestele și gradul de mobilizare prin internet pot produce o combinație de factori care să schimbe situația .
estimez că un „ candidat al pieței ” va trece de 10 % .
elena udrea .
este pohta ce-o pohtește traian băsescu , așa că sunt cele mai mari șanse ca ea să fie candidatul „ dreptei ” .
nu poate spera nici măcar la voturile pe care le-ar obține traian băsescu , adică undeva spre 10 % .
pd nu mai există ca organizație iar traian băsescu nu are o organizație .
presupunând că pd și traian băsescu vor cădea la pace , ceea ce nu este exclus , proiectul său de partid fiind inexistent în ciuda sprijinului masiv și pe față din partea sa .
cel mai probabil , în cel mai optimist scenariu , doamna udrea nu va depăși cu mult 10 % .
mugur isărescu .
este a doua opțiune a lui traian băsescu și a „ dreptei ” .
are însă o problemă cu modul în care a gestionat sistemul bancar , numărul contestațiilor la adresa sa înmulțindu-se .
principala vulnerabilitate o constituie modul în care a gestionat clauzele abuzive din contracte în favoarea băncilor .
fiind „ tehnocrat ” percepția publică asupra sa este mai degrabă de „ premier ” decât de „ președinte ” .
cel mai probabil ar avea un scor sub elena udrea .
sorin oprescu .
game over .
oricum era o candidatură umflată artificial .
șansele sale în afara bucureștiului sunt reduse , iar în bucurești deja are probleme după un al doilea mandat dezastruos asemănător cu cel al lui videanu .
bomboana pe colivă , copilul omorât de maidanezi .
nici măcar mașinăria de vot a psd nu poate face din coadă de câine sită de mătase .
victor ponta .
s-a umplut complet de ridicol cu proiectul roșia montană .
până acum își gestionase foarte bine imaginea publică dar și-a făcut praf tabloul construit cu atâta migală .
candidatura sa din poziția de premier va pune însă probleme , iar o eventuală renunțare la această funcție va pune probleme partidului .
în ciuda mașinăriei de vot a psd , nu cred că ponta ar depăși 25 % .
un sondaj arăta că victor ponta ar lua în jur de 60 % din scorul partidului .
s-a dovedit mult prea slab , un al doilea geoană , care însă nu va beneficia de suportul pnl și nici de antipatia față de traian băsescu , care s-a mai domolit pe măsură ce președintele a devenit irelevant și patetic .
spre deosebire de crin antonescu , care a avut dintotdeauna un scor superior partidului ( o parte din votanți fiind chiar de la psd ) , premierul se bazează doar pe mobilizarea activului de partid .
ținând cont de faptul că unii baroni sunt suficient de puternici încât să nu depindă de guvern , este posibil ca mobilizarea lor să fie mai redusă .
după atâția ani de criză și reducere continuă a banilor de la centru , baronii pot pricepe un lucru elementar : nu mai sunt bani și trebuie să se reorienteze .
caz în care și guvernarea și președinția să nu mai reprezintă o miză .
mru / predoiu .
sunt două avataruri ale aceluiași personaj : „ birocratul ajuns la nivelul maxim de incompetență ” .
nesemnificativi .
alegerile prezidențiale au ocazia de a confirma niște tendințe care vor reconfigura foarte mult spațiul politic : reducerea importanței ruralului .
de ceva vreme , ponderea populației din zona rurală în totalul populației scade .
va crește importanța internetului .
facebook a scos în stradă în bucurești 10.000 de persoane , 6000 la cluj , performanțe de care partidele politice nu au fost în stare .
un candidat facebook are un potențial ridicat , cu toate șansele de a depăși 10 % .
prelungirea protestelor afectează imaginea lui victor ponta .
protestele au marcat „ trezirea ” generației post-revoluționare , cei care au crescut și s-au maturizat în libertate .
generația 20-30 are cu totul alte idealuri și aspirații , la care partidele încă nu au găsit răspuns .
activiștii de tip vechi a căror singură tehnică de convingere era găleata cu ulei și zahăr vor deveni irelevanți . „ competențele ” lor nu mai sunt cerute de piață .
aceste evoluții dezavantajează psd , deoarece apare o nouă „ stângă ” , cu un mesaj mai modern și mai adecvat , și pd , tributar unui autoritarism desuet , de tip vechi , care susține vocal o „ dreaptă ” de tip neoliberal , opusă ideilor și aspirațiilor tinerei generații .
oricâte greșeli ar face usl , pd nu poate profita .
psd are o poveste de succes economic , perioada adrian năstase , în care , economic vorbind , în românia s-a trăit bine .
pnl are perioada tăriceanu în care „ economia duduia ” .
vorbim acum de percepții publice .
pd a intrat în istorie prin tăieri de salarii și creșteri de taxe .
perioada pd nu are nici o poveste de succes , în nici un domeniu ( din nou , vorbim de percepții publice ) , ceea ce face greu ca cineva să aibă nostalgii pediste și să și-i dorească înapoi la guvernare .
alegerile costă .
autoritățile locale nu au interese directe în alegerile europarlamentare și prezidențiale , deci roi este negativ pentru ei .
din aceasta cauză , vor fi avantajați candidați votați din convingere .
« previous “ geopolitics of xxi century will be cosmo-humanist in its essence ” – about the power of information and policy of millennium iii with acad .
albert ignatenko © 2013 cadran politic · rss · designed by theme junkie · powered by wordpress so why would an american indian or alaska native sign up for reduced-rate insurance on the exchanges ?
sevenoaks district council was landed with a £ 30,000 " marks and spencer 's bill " as it paved the way for the chain 's new ...
a brookings police officer is shown at the scene of the accident .
the president of benin took advantage of françois hollande ’ s presence at the investiture of ibrahim boubacar keita to have a discreet discussion with him about the talon affair . ( ... )
the idea of anchoring a re-gasification barge off benin ’ s coast is gaining traction .
and local investors have the means to put pressure on the government . ( ... )
a professor at cheikh anta diop university in dakar , senegal , oumar ndongo has been ( ... )
in a report last year , the tax foundation also decried the holidays as a way to mask other , broader tax issues .
" mock sun " ( also " sun dogs " ) is a colloquial term for a phenomenon called " parhelion " which occurs fairly commonly in polar atmospheres .
it is a false image of the sun , created by the bending of rays of sunlight within crystals of ice in the atmosphere .
parhelia are usually observed in pairs , one on each side of the sun and at the same elevation .
they tend to be red-coloured on the side nearest the sun .
parhelia are quite close to the sun when the sun is close to the horizon , but move further away as the angle above the horizon increases .
une stratégie unique qui englobe pour la première fois l ’ aide humanitaire , la coopération technique et financière , les mesures de politique économique et commerciale et la coopération avec les pays de l ’ est : ce tournant important a été salué aussi bien par le parlement que par l ’ opinion publique , soulignent le directeur de la ddc martin dahinden et marie-gabrielle ineichen-fleisch , secrétaire d ’ etat et directrice du seco , dans le rapport annuel 2012 sur la coopération internationale de la suisse qui vient de sortir de presse .
razorbacksone moore thoughtask a wildlife officerhogs & sec videolocal sportsnhlstatisticsstandingsfull schedulemlbfull schedulestandingsstatisticsnflstandingsfull schedulestatisticsnbafull schedulestatisticsstandingscollegecollege basketballcollege footballncaa videomore sportspgageneral sports newswnbatennislpganascarsoccerindy racing leagueraceweekpgafearless friday this week in golf -- oct .
15-20walker up to 45th in world rankingssullivan rallies to win in puerto ricokang cruises to victory in koreageary races to win in australia chinese tech firms huawei and rekoo to invest in ukthe guardianis china spying on us through broadband ?
osborne welcomes internet giant ... daily mailsee all 680 sourcesrelated united kingdom january 4 , 2013 let there be no doubt , if gonsalves had managed to ram home the new constitution and dismiss the queen , we would be deeply in the do-do right now .
hola , mis amigos , permite hablar ...
alianza bolivariana para los pueblos de nuestra américa .
google surges to record high on ad clicksbloombergmoto x has yet to stem the losses at motorolaforbes - by parmy olsonin depth : google tops estimates , but prices of ads slidenew york timessee all 465 sourcesrelated google ariad falls as late-stage iclusig study is stoppedbusinessweekariad stops iclusig study because of blood clot risksbloombergsee realtime coveragesee all 44 sourcesrelated ariad pharmaceuticals , inc .
own a piece of an nfl starnew york posthow to buy a piece of nfl star arian fostercbs newshighly cited : if you like a star athlete , now you can buy a sharenew york timesin depth : nfl stock market hinges on arian foster 's financesthestreet.comsee all 130 sourcesrelated arian foster questor share tip : why twitter 's not a buytelegraph.co.uktwitter picks nyse for ipo even as losses widenchicago tribune - by gerry shihsee all 32 sourcesrelated nyse neediest health centers to get least aca fundingstatelinereport says 242000 uninsured in coverage gapsan francisco chroniclesee all 90 sourcesrelated health care in the united states adoptive parents sentenced in the rapes of their two children fund ( ticker : shrax ) , portfolio management is a very straightforward endeavor . " unless you are willing to get up on the table and brag how poorly you are doing , don 't get on the table and brag how well you are doing , because every day is a new day and you have to stay grounded , " says freeman , who since 2009 has co-managed the fund with evan bauman , a protégé .
of course , if freeman ever cared to boast , he 'd have a few points to make .
for starters , he has lasted in an industry that isn 't kind to longevity , and he has lasted in the same job for three decades , an eternity in asset management .
freeman is one of only a handful of money managers to run the same fund for that long .
" the greatest motivator for myself is the fear of failure , " he says .
fortunately for freeman and his investors , the good times in his career have far outweighed the bad .
the scariest day of his career , he says , was oct .
20 , 1987 , the day after black monday .
following an early rally , the dow jones industrial average plummeted .
" i have never seen a day when you had halts on almost every one of the 30 dow stocks , " he says .
concept of risk .
in reality it is easy .
it is the probability of loss , absolute or relative .
the second major job of a financial planner is to understand his client ’ s attitude to risk .
without understanding this he can ’ t develop a financial plan that will & ldquo ; satisfy & rdquo ; his client .
to work out a clients ’ attitude to risk a planner asks a number of questions like , how would you feel if you lost 20 % of your money in one year ?
how about you were not showing a profit but rather a loss of 20 % after 5 years ?
now the sad reality is most people who go to a financial planner or million $ $ scheme , do so out of greed or need .
and whether they realize it or not they will mislead the planner as to the attitude that they have to risk .
so it is really a bit of a waste of time asking these sorts of questions .
as in reality we are all pre-programmed to a point with an attitude to risk that is constant .
4 / .
and the final and by far the smallest group : & ldquo ; ok it ’ s a bum deal , bit of a shame , stupid me should have seen the writing on the wall earlier .
where is the next poker table as despite it all i still like the game . & rdquo ; the biggest mistake an investor can make in investing is not learning to move on .
winning and moving on is best but not moving on is worse that losing and moving on .
it is the moving on that allows you to use the time in front of you .
not moving on is time and life theft .
now if you are investing , which character type do you want to give your money to ?
the management of vortec were the optimist type .
the best managers of money are the last group , losing and moving on is ok so long as they don ’ t habitually make the same dumb decisions that caused the loss .
the worst fund manager is one who does not know when to move on or get the ball rolling so watch out kiddos you could be next .
so now you see the crisis helps the banks and bank execs not the taxpayers new customers can create an account so that you can shop faster in the future and keep track of orders you have made in the past . „ ich sehe mich als den ersten diener der großloge von österreich “ der österreichische großmeister nikolaus schwärzler spricht über das wesen der freimaurerei , sittliche vervollkommnung und politischen einfluss .
a.t. : seit wann sind sie freimaurer ?
wie hat es ihre familie aufgenommen , als sie erfuhren , dass sie freimaurer sind ?
n.s. : seit dem 22.11.1980 .
meine familie – meine frau , meine eltern und geschwister & # 8211 ; haben es nicht gegen meinen willen „ erfahren “ , ... © 2011 cadran politic · rss · designed by theme junkie · powered by wordpressprivacy policy - barrons.com we use the personal information we collect from and about you for the purposes set forth below .
please note that we may use and disclose other information for any purpose , except where we are required to do otherwise under applicable law .
if we are required to treat other information as personal information under applicable law , then we may use and disclose it for all the purposes for which we use and disclose personal information .
to complete a merger or sale of assets .
if dow jones sells all or part of its business or makes a sale or transfer of its assets or is otherwise involved in a merger or transfer of all or a material part of its business , dow jones may transfer your information to the party or parties involved in the transaction as part of that transaction .
why should developing countries be preached to by the g7 ?
fracking protests in nb : why resource projects are in peril playground snatcher ordered to join us sex offender registrycpmore albertaescaped sex offender found ..
good zoo news ..
motorhead endorsement ..
manhunt continues attempted-murder suspect declared dead shows up in edmontoncbcliving as a free man why ufc champ 's pondering a move to saskatchewancppremier wall won 't question fighter celeb couple weds after waiting for same-sex marriage to become legalgettyhot on we would like to remind all of you to stop by to see the museum one last time before our doors close permanently .
we are so sad to see the museum go and thank you all for your support over the years .
if you can try to make it downtown before october 26 , 2013 to see the beautiful ozark bathhouse and moca museum before our art is moved to a new home .
again thank you all and please continue to support the arts in hot springs .
i 've got a call in to brittany jackson , the director , to see where the new home is and will update when i can .
the historic arkansas museum opens the exhibit " figurations : works by stephen cefalo and sandra sell " today and musician bonnie montgomery be at ham tonight for the 2nd friday art night reception from 5-8 p.m.
cefalo — who was on the cover of the arkansas times ' " best of " issue for his selection by readers as best artist — paints figuratively in the style and palette of the old masters .
sell is a wood artist and apprentice to sculptor robyn horn .
ham is at 2nd and cumberland .
the management of kariakoo market corporation ( kmc ) in dar es salaam has faulted city municipalities over delays to establish markets on outskirts of the business capital .
the alternative markets on the outskirts of the city are aimed at reducing congestion at the main market in dar es salaam but efforts have proved futile since the municipalities would not respond to kmc ’ s application for plots designed for the markets .
this was said at the weekend in dar es salaam by the chief of science and technology section of the united nations conference on trade and development ( unctad ) dr padmashree gehl sampath .
this was said yesterday in dar es salaam by prof yassin mgonda at the opening of the national consultation meeting to discuss the east african standards draft for soaps and detergents ( easc / tc 074-surface active agents ) .
this was said last week in arusha by the deputy minister for labour and employment dr makongoro mahanga at the just ended 23rd ppf annual members and stakeholders conference .
industry and trade minister dr abdallah kigoda made the remark in dar es salaam on wednesday during the nigerian national day celebrations .
two investors have teamed up to inject funds into a dar es salaam-based firm as they seek to help in improving cargo handling at the dar es salaam port .
this was said over the weekend in dar es salaam by a farmer identified as santulo mwaikela when explaining development and challenges facing the agricultural sector in the region .
under the agreement , at least 10,000mt of maize will be transported from mbeya to dar es salaam and 10,000mt of fertiliser will be ferried from dar es salaam port to mbeya , for onward shipment to malawi .
crb deletes 4 contractors for failing to adhere to regulations the call was made on wednesday by the mwanza regional commissioner , evarist ndikilo , when inaugurating world tourism day which is being observed in mwanza at the national level . & ldquo ; i did not believe it when i looked under the crown and realised that i had won myself a motorcycle .
dealers in lubricants have said they are ready to support the government in its fight to remove substandard products in the market in order to save the life of vehicles and machines .
tanga cement company pesents two classrooms , desks to mtwara school tanga cement company ( tcc ) limited has constructed and handed over a block of two classrooms , toilets and desks to mangowele primary school in mtwara region at the weekend .
the government has said it will ensure that air and travel industries are not overtaxed so as to further strengthen and attract more investments in the sub-sectors .
the minister of state in prime minister ’ s office responsible for investment and privatisation , dr mary nagu made the observation yesterday in dar es salaam and attributed the fact is mainly due to lower investments in sugar industry .
the imported furniture that tanzanians are going for is said not to be durable although it is very expensive .
how ’ gone girl ’ shoot in cape happened fri oct 18 , 2013 02 : 18 am edt facts from a ’ gone girl ’ notebook fri oct 18 , 2013 02 : 18 am edt sub shop at parkade center welcomes return of government workers fri oct 18 , 2013 04 : 18 am edt leaf-peeping season set to hit columbia fri oct 18 , 2013 12 : 18 am edt leaf-peeping season set to hit columbia thu oct 17 , 2013 10 : 18 pm edt beans too small , corn too wet for ideal harvest fri oct 18 , 2013 12 : 18 am edt one injured in columbia shooting thu oct 17 , 2013 10 : 18 pm edt family fun night will aid two organizations fri oct 18 , 2013 06 : 18 am edt mobile food pantry moving to new site fri oct 18 , 2013 06 : 18 am edt officials cut ribbon for new interchange at i-44 and range line road in joplin fri oct 18 , 2013 12 : 18 am edt slain man remembered fondly by friends ; autopsy determines he was shot in the back fri oct 18 , 2013 12 : 18 am edt outback archery brings new store to joplin thu oct 17 , 2013 8 : 18 pm edt a history of boulevard brewing thu oct 17 , 2013 6 : 18 pm edt a history of the boulevard brewing co . thu oct 17 , 2013 4 : 18 pm edt bnsf ceo : ’ warren bucks ’ build freight mode of future thu oct 17 , 2013 4 : 18 pm edt savoy ’ s redeveloper wins top hotel honors thu oct 17 , 2013 4 : 18 pm edt feds challenge new trial in katrina shootings fri oct 18 , 2013 04 : 18 am edt mayor sly james ’ oldest son dies thu oct 17 , 2013 10 : 18 pm edt blimp pilot , chiefs fan loves his high-flying job thu oct 17 , 2013 10 : 18 pm edt ’ baby whisperer ’ to help new parents get restful nights thu oct 17 , 2013 6 : 18 pm edt riverside man convicted in child molestation case thu oct 17 , 2013 6 : 18 pm edt mayor sly james ’ s oldest son dies thu oct 17 , 2013 6 : 18 pm edt new space to learn at delasalle hs thu oct 17 , 2013 8 : 18 pm edt oldest son of mayor sly james dies thu oct 17 , 2013 6 : 18 pm edt ku case shows how backlash from professors ’ remarks can inflame politicians sun sep 29 , 2013 02 : 18 am edt october festivals and halloween events in the ozarks fri oct 18 , 2013 06 : 18 am edt it ’ s msu homecoming weekend fri oct 18 , 2013 06 : 18 am edt air marshal accused of taking upskirt pictures of passengers fri oct 18 , 2013 06 : 18 am edt how to prepare for flu season thu oct 17 , 2013 10 : 18 pm edt web extra : flu shots and pregnancy thu oct 17 , 2013 10 : 18 pm edt experts warn about obamacare scams mon sep 30 , 2013 8 : 18 pm edt cards counting on wacha again fri oct 18 , 2013 04 : 18 am edt which st. louis-area zip code is among the priciest ?
thu oct 17 , 2013 4 : 18 pm edt florida man sues a-b for deceptive becks beer labels thu oct 17 , 2013 4 : 18 pm edt monsantos fraley wins top food prize thu oct 17 , 2013 4 : 18 pm edt t-rex eyes lammert building for new location thu oct 17 , 2013 2 : 18 pm edt iselect begins picking startups thu oct 17 , 2013 2 : 18 pm edt maplewood boy hospitalized after being hit by car while riding his bike fri oct 18 , 2013 02 : 18 am edt officers draw guns on man ’ blacked out behind the wheel with girlfriend ’ s child in backseat fri oct 18 , 2013 02 : 18 am edt school bus accident in macoupin county illinois thu oct 17 , 2013 8 : 18 pm edt blunt on shutdown : i dont think there are any winners thu oct 17 , 2013 4 : 18 pm edt chicago man charged with trying to hire hit man fri oct 18 , 2013 06 : 18 am edt coroner inquest rules cahokia man ’ s death homicide thu oct 17 , 2013 6 : 18 pm edt residents learn bridgeton landfill had problems in 1990s fri oct 18 , 2013 02 : 18 am edt pay it forward : jesse jones fri oct 18 , 2013 12 : 18 am edt who needs designer duds when you have cardinal clothes ?
fri oct 18 , 2013 06 : 18 am edt bill mcclellan : bad drink is sign of the apocalypse fri oct 18 , 2013 02 : 18 am edt people in business fri oct 18 , 2013 02 : 18 am edt an " expedition " can be any journey undertaken by an individual or organized group of people with a definite unique objective , be it for the purpose of discovery , science , or fundraising .
democratic republic of the congo + 2 others la rdc demande au hcr et à kigali d & # 039 ; expliquer l & # 039 ; arrivée de 200 familles venues du rwanda kinshasa , 2 octobre 2013 ( afp ) - kinshasa a demandé mercredi au haut-commissariat de l 'onu pour les réfugiés ( hcr ) et à kigali d 'expliquer l 'arrivée récente dans l 'est de la république démocratique du congo ( rdc ) de quelque 200 familles en provenance du rwanda voisin .
world + 5 others résultats inférieurs en matière de santé pour les minorités nairobi , 2 octobre 2013 ( irin ) - selon un nouveau rapport publié par minority rights group international ( mrg ) , les minorités présentent des résultats en matière de santé inférieurs au reste de la population .
une sélection d 'articles d 'irin sont publiés sur reliefweb .
trouvez d 'autres articles et analyses d 'irin sur http : / / www.irinnews.org cet article ne reflète pas nécessairement les vues des nations unies .
voir irin droits d 'auteur pour les conditions d 'utilisation .
goma , 1 octobre 2013 ( afp ) - deux cents familles arrivées du rwanda se sont installées ces jours-ci dans la zone contrôlée par les rebelles du m23 dans l 'est de la république démocratique du congo , a-t-on appris mardi de sources concordantes .
le maïs blanc est la céréale de base principale consommées en tanzanie , au kenya et en ethiopie .
en ouganda , le maïs blanc est cultivé principalement en tant que culture commerciale pour l 'exportation dans la région .
le riz importé est un aliment de base majeur pour djibouti et la somalie , qui consomment principalement belem ‐ le riz importé rouge .
la tanzanie est également un producteur majeur et source de riz dans la région tandis que le kenya et l 'ouganda sont de petits producteurs .
les deux rouges et le sorgho blanc sont produits et consommés dans la région .
i know how hard authors work on their books and how far out of their element many are when it comes to doing the sales and marketing .
so when i see someone doing it wrong , and giving bad advice , i do my best to help--even when they 're not my clients .
now , let 's get into how to market a book and how not to market a book .
a primera vista , fatima aparentaba tener unos 4 o 5 meses .
pero , en realidad , acababa de cumplir su primer año de vida .
estaba entre los 126.000 niños con desnutrición aguda grave tratados en uno de los 425 centros nutricionales establecidos por el ministerio de salud de chad en 2012 como parte de la expansión de la atención en todo el sahel .
se llegó a cientos de miles de niños con la atención necesaria para salvar sus vidas .
tristemente , no se pudo llegar a otros muchos . * * il faut 1,4 milliard de dollars é.-u. maintenant pour les enfants qui vivent dans des situations de crise humanitaire , affirme l ’ unicef * * firewalk succcess was ‘ mind over matter ’ , says great horwood resident feds : ny man arrested for attempting to join al qaeda in the arabian peninsulacbs newsnew york man arrested on charges he tried to join an al-qaeda-related group in ... fox newssee all 33 sourcesrelated terrorism libyan al qaeda suspect appears in court in new yorkreutersal-qaeda leader pleads not guilty in ny courtroomusa todayopinion : al qaeda kingpin abu anas al-libi belongs at guantanamo , not in new yorkfox newssee all 520 sourcesrelated libya in a repositioning strategy , airtel has ingeniously identified with the ars african championship which has impacted positively on african football and is considered a platform for promoting african unity , raheem akingbolu reports soco international plc gauged less than hoped for oil rates at the lideka east marine-1 well on a postsalt structure updip from its lideka marine-1 well that found shows of oil in the sendji is3 formation on the shallow-water marine xi block offshore & # 8230 ; put your faith in crayford 's top dog to be top dog at £ 2,500 john smith 's kent st leger this weekend .
we like to give the players variety on the training ground but sometimes you ’ ve got to keep it basic .
saturday evening was a good night for trainer steve gammon in the betdaq stayers trophy final .
results may not be going our way at the moment but you won ’ t see us sulking .
there have been several refereeing decisions that haven ’ t gone our way so far but we can only control the controllable .
the crayford legend that is newlawn sweep has run his last competitive race at the track yann kermorgant found the win over leicester at the valley on saturday satisfying for a number of reasons .
the informer : jack 's early pace makes him one to keep an eye on we had excellent support from the fans and made changes to get back in the game .
mckinney takes handoff from goodell fri oct 18 , 2013 12 : 09 am edt dad accused of strangling daughter thu oct 17 , 2013 10 : 09 am edt police : man threatens to shoot if his car is towed thu oct 17 , 2013 10 : 09 am edt police : robber apologized for holdup wed oct 16 , 2013 2 : 09 pm edt local ballerina soars to new heights wed oct 16 , 2013 10 : 09 am edt wilton man faces second dwi charge tue oct 15 , 2013 6 : 09 pm edt norwalk man faces drug-related charges tue oct 15 , 2013 6 : 09 pm edt another unlocked car ransacked in darien tue oct 15 , 2013 4 : 09 pm edt search launched for new southport harbor master thu oct 17 , 2013 6 : 09 pm edt nj graffiti ’ taggers ’ have brush with law in fairfield thu oct 17 , 2013 2 : 09 pm edt schools to eliminate drama , phys ed coordinators tue jan 8 , 2013 10 : 09 pm est feds challenge new trial in katrina shootings fri oct 18 , 2013 04 : 09 am edt police : man offered preteen girl money for sex on facebook fri oct 18 , 2013 02 : 09 am edt demolition day for burned out building fri oct 18 , 2013 06 : 09 am edt massive clean-up at shippan point fri oct 18 , 2013 12 : 09 am edt wilder reflects on pryor relationship at avon thu oct 17 , 2013 10 : 09 pm edt animal planet ’ s jeff corwin comes to norwalk aquarium wed oct 16 , 2013 10 : 09 pm edt car fire in riverside wed oct 16 , 2013 8 : 09 pm edt queens man arrested for indecent exposure wed oct 16 , 2013 4 : 09 pm edt obama lashes republicans as government reopens fri oct 18 , 2013 04 : 09 am edt voter registration deadlines set thu oct 17 , 2013 12 : 09 pm edt he said the decision to launch kawawa 94 saccos limited was one of the efforts aimed at helping the school .
on his part , the headmaster of kawawa jkt high school major mayamba maiga applauded the saccos for donating two tonnes of cement .
all stateline stories and graphics may be republished in print or online by anyone for free .
all we ask is that you follow a few rules : • all stories must be attributed to stateline • any use of stateline material — in print or online — must include the following disclosure statement : “ stateline is a nonpartisan , nonprofit news service of the pew charitable trusts that provides daily reporting and analysis on trends in state policy . ” • stateline material may not be edited or changed , except for style reasons or to shorten for length • any use online must include a link back to our website • stateline material may not be republished wholesale or automatically without permissionstateline content is published daily at stateline.org and can be found on lexisnexis , factiva and news outlets served by mcclatchy-tribune information services . subscribe to our daily and weekly e-mails .
ollove was a long-time journalist at the baltimore sun , first as an enterprise last week , medical experts and scientists from 14 countries in the world met in bahi and dar es salaam at a conference titled ’ uranium mining , impact on health and environment . ’
those of us who were there , managed to get a detailed overview of what uranium is and for a while there , felt like shouting at the roof to tell our government to slow down a bit as we ponder things around .
we are not telling you to remain poor , but we want to advise you that uranium hurts people . & rdquo ; i know tanzania is poor and that we need all the money we could get it , but i guess at this point , let us take heed of these words from dr. mwinyi , & ldquo ; the wellbeing of the tanzanian population is of the highest priority and there can be no economic interest , whatever the expected revenues to outweigh the protection of health and in particular of its children and their descendants . & rdquo ; buy gold now .
the usa cannot help all the institutions & sub prime has hit other countries .
the financial collapse is being sorted out as now gm & ford are finding out gold , silver , as well as savings in the bank are the way to go but be ready to pull your money out and invest in gold .
wait until everything is about to collapse .
[ read george soros crises report ] [ thailand in crises ] [ depression looms 2011 ] [ depression safeguards ] [ investment property guide ] [ borrowing money ] [ using thai company to hold property ] [ best option for foreigners buying ] [ more thailand finance news ] [ pension funds ] [ depression looms 2011 ] [ hedge funds 2008 ] [ investing fund guidelines ] why you [ do not invest in finance companies ] [ buy gold not shares in finance companies ] [ thai property speculation & sub prime crises ] south tahoe oks ban on retail plastic bags fri oct 18 , 2013 04 : 19 am edt white pine sheriff ’ s blotter fri sep 20 , 2013 10 : 19 am edt pedestrian in critical condition after being hit by car fri oct 18 , 2013 12 : 19 am edt overcrowding plaguing dozens of schools thu oct 17 , 2013 10 : 19 pm edt nevadans prepare for a major earthquake thu oct 17 , 2013 8 : 19 pm edt coroner ids man killed in motorcycle crash thu oct 17 , 2013 2 : 19 pm edt education is key to fighting off sexual predators fri oct 18 , 2013 12 : 19 am edt hsieh has big hopes for downtown fest fri oct 18 , 2013 06 : 19 am edt indoor dayclubs opening as weather cools down fri oct 18 , 2013 04 : 19 am edt inspiring las vegas senior honored as aarp nevada ’ s top volunteer fri oct 18 , 2013 06 : 19 am edt mark shunocks interest in running a theater is no act fri oct 18 , 2013 06 : 19 am edt ask the rgj : why is natural gas rate up ?
fri oct 18 , 2013 06 : 19 am edt washoe ’ s population on track to top 500k fri oct 18 , 2013 06 : 19 am edt red sox win game 5 , lead alcs 3-2 fri oct 18 , 2013 12 : 19 am edt nugget ceo reveals plans thu oct 17 , 2013 10 : 19 pm edt throwback thursday : now a word from our sponsors thu oct 17 , 2013 10 : 19 pm edt b of a robbery and shooting ; name of man killed thu oct 17 , 2013 6 : 19 pm edt governor ’ s banquet to kick off 150th celebration thu oct 17 , 2013 8 : 19 pm edt why the upcoming shutdowns and defaults are symptoms of a deeper republican malady two years ago the " occupy " movement roared into view , summoning the energies and attention of large numbers of people who felt the economic system had got out of whack and were determined to do something about it .
occupy put the issue of the nation 's savage inequality on the front pages , ...
a few days ago i had breakfast with a man who had been one of my mentors in college , who participated in the struggle for civil rights in the 1960s and has devoted much of the rest of his life in pursuit of equal opportunity for minorities , the poor , women , ...
the myth of the ' free market ' and how to make the economy work for us private gain to a few trumps public good for the many the two centers of unaccountable power in america , and their consequences what 's the ' chained cpi , ' why it 's bad for social security and why the white house shouldn 't be touting it ( video ) why politicians are sensitive to public opinion on same-sex marriage , immigration and guns , but not on the economy tarp is over , but the bailouts will continue until the big banks are broken up -- and washington knows it ice loss from the greenland and antarctic ice sheets is rising to the top as the main contributor to higher sea level. can now offer you services at very reasonable rates .
please ask us any questions in 1965-66 he received the nieman fellows award and was named one of ten outstanding young men of year by the u.s. junior chamber of commerce in 1967 .
between 1967-68 he returned to princeton as a lecturer , and he continues to speak at colleges and universities across the united states .
it has been five years since the lehman brothers bankruptcy .
the aftermath is well known : the too big to fail bailouts , the too big to jail avoidance of guilt by culpable executives , the loss of millions of jobs , the loss of hard-earned life savings , and severe damage to the world ...
for far too many americans , labor day is simply another day off , another store sale and another small parade .
the meaning of the holiday has been dulled by both rampant commercialism and public apathy .
where is the passion for elevating the wellbeing of american workers ?
shouldn 't labor day be a ...
what happens when the rule of law increasingly bows to the whims and violations of unaccountable public officials ?
in the united states , we are seeing the rule of law eroded by those at the top levels of our government .
we are witnessing the dismantling of the guiding principles of justice ...
the cruel gap between ceo pay and the stagnant minimum wage burberry ceo angela ahrendts is joining apple in a newly created position , as a senior vice president and member of the executive team , reporting to ceo tim cook .
apple should buy nest labs , if it can get the owners to sell 21st century fox3d printing3d systems3d tv4k tvaccessorie saccessoriesaceractivisionadobe systemsadvertisingaereoaffordable care actakamai technologiesalibabaamazonamazon retailamazon.comamcamdandroidandroid phonesannual meetingantitrustaolapollo groupappleapple retailapplied materialsarmasusat & tatmelautodeskavago technologiesavid technologyb lackberrybarack obamabarnes & noblebest buybest buy store within a storebill gatesblackberryboxeebroadcombuzzfeedcbscelebritiesceo firingsceo tim cookceschinachina mobilechipschromebookchromecastcirrus logiccisco systemsclearwirecloudcoinstarcomcastconsumer electronicscorningcox enterprisescypress semiconductordelldemand mediadigital innovationsdirectvdiscovery communicationsdish networkdisneydolbydropboxearbudsebayebookse-bookseconomyelectronic artselectronics artselon muskemcergenespnexonefacebookflextronicsfrancefriday funniesftcgamestopgarmingeneral electricgeneral motorsgooglegoogle glassgrouponhboheadsetshewlett packardhewlett-packa rdhewlett-packardholiday shoppinghoneywellht chtchuluhyperloopibmimaxinfosysinsurance exchangesintelinteractivecorpinteractivecorp.intuitinvensenseiosipadiphoneiphone competitorsipodiposirobotit jobsitunesjeff bezoskickstarterkindlelarry ellisonlarry pagelenovolglg displaylinkedinlinuxlogitechlytromade in usamade in usamakerbotmarissa mayermarketingmarvellmasayoshi sonmattelmicron technologymicros oftmicrosoftmobile adsmonotypemotorolamoviesn iken okiancrnest labsnetappnetflixnewest galaxy phonenews corp.news medianews medianewspapersnielsennikenintendonok ianokiansantt docomonuancenuance communicationsnvidianxp semiconductorsobamacareobamacare glitchesonline advertisingoracleouterwallpalo alto networkspanasonicpandorapandora mediapaypalpcsperegrine semiconductorpinterestproto labsqualcommrackspacerealdredboxretailretail partnershipsrf micro devicesrobotsrokusalesforce.comsamsungsamsung and best buysamsung smartphonesandisksecsecuritysheryl sandbergsiriskyworks solutionssmart phonessmartph onessmartphonesmartphone ssmartphonessmartwatchessocial mediasocial networksocial networkingsoftbanksolarcitysonyspotifysprintsprint nextelsquarestaplesstartupssteve ballmersteve jobsstmicroelectronicsstockrstratasysstreaming musicstreaming videosurfacesurveillancesurveysynapticstab letstabletstaiwan semiconductortake-two interactive softwareteradatatesla motorstim cooktime warnertime warner cabletivot-mobiletoshibatoyotatravelzootruliatumblrtwitterultra hdultra hdtvvalueclickventure capitalverifone systemsverizonverizon wirelessviacomvideo gamesvisavodafonewal-martwalt disneywashingtonwearable computerswikileakswikipediawindowswireless spectrumwwdcxoomyahooyoutubezillowzynga even in antarctica , pollutants can be found in snow and ice cores .
nuclear fallout shows up clearly in the ice cores , and is linked to datable events .
it was supposed to be the “ bridge ” between sudan and south sudan , a symbol of how two once-warring neighbours can move forward into a new era of peace , a model for amicable problem-solving .
instead , the abyei area remains mired in a worsening crisis which stands in the way of full rapprochement between khartoum and juba .
safe environment > information and referralwhen you dial 2-1-1 , or 1-800-543-7709 , you will speak to a local information and referral specialist , who can help you to : etransform africa : the transformational use of information and communication technologies in africa le golfe de guinée : la nouvelle zone à haut risque congo + 3 others des experts du congo , cameroun et gabon procèdent à l ’ évaluation in vitro des antipaludiques des experts du congo-brazzaville , du cameroun et du gabon participent , du 9 au 10 septembre à brazzaville , à un atelier d ’ évaluation in vitro des antipaludiques visant à harmoniser les techniques et à partager des données .
l ’ atelier est organisé par la fondation congolaise pour la recherche médicale ( fcrm ) , sous le thème : « culture in vitro de plasmodium falciparum et tests de chimio sensibilité » .
le cerf alloue plus de 19,8 millions de dollars pour des programmes d ’ urgence au second trimestre le fonds central d ’ intervention d ’ urgence des nations unies ( cerf ) a alloué au cours des trois derniers mois un total de 19,8 millions de dollars au congo , au mali , à la république centrafricaine ( rca ) , au sénégal et au tchad .
cette dotation porte à 47,9 millions de dollars le montant total alloué en 2013 à l ’ afrique de l ’ ouest et du centre .
democratic republic of the congo + 7 others rapport du secrétaire général sur les activités du bureau régional des nations unies pour l ’ afrique centrale et les régions touchées par l ’ armée de résistance du seigneur ( s / 2013 / 297 ) world + 10 others la bad lance de nouvelles autoroutes de l ’ information congo + 12 others evaluation de l ’ action de déblaiement et de dépollution des quartiers affectés par l ’ explosion du dépôt de munitions de mpila à brazzaville l ’ évaluation a été confié au centre international de déminage humanitaire de genève ( cidhg ) agissant en partenariat avec le programme universitaire indépendant small arms survey .
le mandat comprenait : l 'évaluation de l 'efficacité des activités de dépollution de la zone de mpila à brazzaville ; l 'évaluation des processus de coordination entre les autorités nationales , l 'équipe de l ’ action contre les mines des nations unies ( unmat ) , les partenaires d 'exécution , les bailleurs de fonds et les autres parties prenantes ; cameroon + 5 others la délégation régionale du cicr à yaoundé établie à yaoundé ( cameroun ) depuis 1992 , la délégation régionale du cicr pour l ’ afrique centrale soutient la mise en œuvre du droit international humanitaire en angola , au cameroun , au gabon , en guinée équatoriale , en république du congo et à sao tomé-et-principe .
elle apporte également protection et assistance aux personnes déplacées par la violence , réalise des activités de rétablissement des liens familiaux , visite des détenus et soutient le développement des sociétés nationales de la croix-rouge de la région .
democratic republic of the congo + 11 others rapport du secrétaire général sur les activités du bureau régional des nations unies pour l ’ afrique centrale et les zones où sévit l ’ armée de résistance du seigneur ( s / 2012 / 923 ) site map | terms of use | privacy statement | copyright & trademark notice | eeoa fi musulman .
islam , pace şi democratie & # 8211 ; alteţa sa regală prinţul el hassan bin talal | cadran politic home vitrina cu cărți a fi musulman .
islam , pace şi democratie & # 8211 ; alteţa sa regală prinţul el hassan bin talal nu portretul iordanianului sau al arabului este ales de autor ca titlu al lucrării sale .
este un portret mai larg care le cuprinde pe precedentele : este acela al mahomedanului .
acesta trebuie cunoscut în forma lui autentică , demnă şi paşnică , într-un moment în care religiile sunt deturnate de propriii aderenţi şi considerate ostile sau ameninţătoare în exterior .
cartea răspunde cu o claritate deplină celor două pericole . & # 8221 ; & # 8220 ; alteţa sa regală prinţul el hassan bin talal este o personalitate prezentă în toate areopagurile politice , filosofice sau teologice unde se discută soarta globală a lumii . [ … ] nu portretul iordanianului sau al arabului este ales de autor ca titlu al lucrării sale .
este un portret mai larg care le cuprinde pe precedentele : este acela al mahomedanului .
acesta trebuie cunoscut în forma lui autentică , demnă şi paşnică , într-un moment în care religiile sunt deturnate de propriii aderenţi şi considerate ostile sau ameninţătoare în exterior .
cartea răspunde cu o claritate deplină celor două pericole . & # 8221 ; next revoluția din decembrie  89 : pacatul originar , sacrificiul fondator & # 8211 ; emil constantinescu seven falls ’ vinson guilty fri oct 18 , 2013 02 : 22 am edt meadows voted not to end shutdown fri oct 18 , 2013 02 : 22 am edt weaverville family ’ s tragedy felt by all fri oct 18 , 2013 02 : 22 am edt candler horses seized thu oct 17 , 2013 8 : 22 pm edt today ’ s traffic : watch for fog fri oct 18 , 2013 06 : 22 am edt providence high ’ s bentley spain is ’ the real deal ’ thu oct 17 , 2013 10 : 22 pm edt who should get screened for prostate cancer fri oct 18 , 2013 06 : 22 am edt feds challenge new trial in katrina shootings fri oct 18 , 2013 04 : 22 am edt nc services ramped down in shutdown get restored thu oct 17 , 2013 8 : 22 pm edt two men arrested in shooting death of concord teen fri oct 18 , 2013 12 : 22 am edt man arrested on ny sex charges thu oct 17 , 2013 10 : 22 pm edt airport taxiway project hinges on shelter move thu oct 17 , 2013 10 : 22 pm edt hester now a free man wed aug 14 , 2013 2 : 22 pm edt elimination of waiver creates little stir at bcc wed aug 14 , 2013 12 : 22 pm edt man arrested for shooting his brother wed aug 14 , 2013 12 : 22 pm edt soldier receives hero ’ s welcome at screening of documentary ’ travis : a soldier ’ s story ’ fri oct 18 , 2013 02 : 22 am edt hoke lawmen seek leads in monday homicide fri oct 18 , 2013 12 : 22 am edt district will eye toy gun incident thu oct 17 , 2013 2 : 22 pm edt salmonella tops communicable disease list in wayne thu oct 17 , 2013 2 : 22 pm edt greensboro man arrested in gander mountain vandalism thu oct 17 , 2013 10 : 22 pm edt update : police arrest one of two men wanted in asheboro burglary thu oct 17 , 2013 6 : 22 pm edt update : police arrest one of two men wanted for asheboro burglary thu oct 17 , 2013 4 : 22 pm edt shutdown : trying to get back to normal fri oct 18 , 2013 12 : 22 am edt polling centers bustling fri oct 18 , 2013 12 : 22 am edt review : ’ turn of the screw ’ is adult horror story fri oct 18 , 2013 06 : 22 am edt sandburg home , campgrounds reopen ; dss funding restored thu oct 17 , 2013 10 : 22 pm edt womens expo a celebration of womens health thu oct 17 , 2013 2 : 22 pm edt new mobile site fri aug 9 , 2013 4 : 22 pm edt moral monday to come to new bern thu oct 17 , 2013 4 : 22 pm edt obama lashes republicans as government reopens fri oct 18 , 2013 06 : 22 am edt new charges filed in blackwater shootings fri oct 18 , 2013 06 : 22 am edt kaiser estimates 318,710 north carolinians fall in the ’ coverage gap ’ fri oct 18 , 2013 04 : 22 am edt knightdale police may file additional charges in death of seanne barnette fri oct 18 , 2013 04 : 22 am edt kaiser estimates 318,710 north carolinians fall in the ’ coverage gap ’ fri oct 18 , 2013 12 : 22 am edt nc state on the cutting edge of 3d printing fri oct 18 , 2013 12 : 22 am edt nc services ramped down in shutdown restored thu oct 17 , 2013 6 : 22 pm edt do not touch : 2013 fair won ’ t have petting zoo thu oct 17 , 2013 6 : 22 pm edt psychiatrist ’ s concern led to discovery of slain knightdale woman thu oct 17 , 2013 6 : 22 pm edt mccrory remodeled office restroom over bad odor thu oct 17 , 2013 6 : 22 pm edt orphan pleads for family to ’ love me until i die ’ fri oct 18 , 2013 12 : 22 am edt preparing for the unthinkable thu oct 17 , 2013 2 : 22 pm edt national parks reopen in n.c. thu oct 17 , 2013 12 : 22 pm edt student struck by car and killed at bus stop thu oct 17 , 2013 10 : 22 am edt baby dies after being left in car in greensboro thu oct 3 , 2013 6 : 22 pm edt stateline — best of # statereads : special interests , politics and a lack of leadership to blame for inaction after sandusky scandal “ 210 rio grande : the epicenter for utah 's homeless ” – the deseret news & # 8220 ; i am young , you are rich , we are like americans & # 8221 ; « previousromânia – china : de la o agendă de bune intenţii la rezultate concrete ? © 2013 cadran politic · rss · designed by theme junkie · powered by wordpress faroe islands crude oil consumption by year ( thousand barrels per day ) " some of the commentary on those reports has suggested that cbo and jct have changed their estimates of the effects of the aca to a significant degree .
that 's not our perspective . ...
in fact , < a href = " http : / / voices.washingtonpost.com / ezra-klein / 2010 / 04 / why _ immigrants _ get _ short _ shrif.html " > as ezra klein pointed out < / a > , the affordable care act " goes out of its way to exclude " undocumented immigrants : oh , and did we mention that the affordable care act was modeled on a reform designed and implemented by a former republican governor and presidential candidate , whose innovation was widely celebrated by the gop while said former governor was running for president ?
and did we mention that the individual mandate that was used in romneycare to ensure " no free riders " was originally dreamed up by the heritage foundation ?
and did we add that additional dna of the affordable care act was borrowed from the senate gop alternative to the clinton plan in the 1990s and the < a href = " http : / / www.bipartisanpolicy.org / news / press-releases / 2009 / 08 / bipartisan-policy-center-releases-report-improving-health-care-quality-a " target = " _ hplink " > 2009 bipartisan policy committee plan < / a > , which was endorsed by tom daschle , howard baker , and bob dole ?
but the house had a problem . < a href = " http : / / www.huffingtonpost.com / 2010 / 03 / 16 / health-care-opponents-dem _ n _ 501353.html " > as i wrote at the time < / a > : " the longer this takes to resolve … the harder it will be to get people to [ come back and ] sign up , " aetna ceo mark bertolini told the newspaper .
" it 's not off to a great start , " sure you dont care .
you dont pay any taxes .
we can buy alot of tanks with 200 million dollars i 'm waiting for a government bureaucrat to be held accountable .
tick tock tick tock tick tock tick tock tick tock tick tock pathetic epic failure .
you own it democrats ... this is your disaster .
sebastian _ kresge : " glitchy ? "
hahahahaha this is an unmitigated disaster !
billions in wasted ball organiser ophelie renouard said : “ this girl certainly has a story to tell .
i read an article about her and found her interesting . ”
share _ stori : the " black cab driver " phrase made me realize we have even a playboy playmate is a mensa member .
julie peterson – playboy playmate of the month , february 1987 if her favorite show is " the only way is essex , " then i 'd suspect the iq test was faulty .
to all of you commenting on the race of her father , " black cab driver " does refer to the drivers race but rather the company for which he drives . black cab co . get it ? a higher iq than einstein and she can have babies .
thank god she doesn 't have gay parents ...
she is a smart child ....
that african cab driver is amazingly smart . why not focus the article on him , instead of his boring daughter ? so they are sending possibly one of the most brilliant minds of our generation to a singles dance ? how is this news ? or did i miss something ? she must of been adopted or cheated on the test .... most are cheaters nowadays .. doctors , engineers , politicians , etc. they got the connection .. she doesnt look black at all latvia 2-2 slovakia renārs rode 's stoppage-time equaliser in riga salvaged a draw for the hosts who had trailed by two goals at half-time . ( 10 / 15 / 2013 6 : 29 : 50 pm ) world + 2 others après la guinée équatoriale , l ’ angola contribue à son tour au fonds de solidarité pour la sécurité alimentaire en afrique 10 millions de dollars pour financer les actions de sécurité alimentaire dans la région 20 juin 2013 , rome - l 'angola vient d 'annoncer son intention de verser 10 millions de dollars au fonds de solidarité pour la sécurité alimentaire en afrique , que gère la fao , afin de promouvoir la sécurité alimentaire en afrique .
le ministère angolais de l 'agriculture et du développement m. afonso pedro canga a annoncé ce don lors du lancement officiel du fonds en marge de la 38e conférence de la fao , l 'organe directeur souverain de l 'organisation .
world + 1 other le fonds fiduciaire africain pour la sécurité alimentaire devient réalité la guinée équatoriale est le premier pays à contribuer , à hauteur de 30 millions de dollars , à cette initiative de l ’ afrique à l ’ afrique pour lutter contre la faim 22 février 2013 , malabo / rome - la guinée équatoriale a fait don aujourd 'hui de 30 millions de dollars à un nouveau fonds de solidarité qui vise à mobiliser les ressources financières de l 'afrique pour renforcer la sécurité alimentaire de la région .
world + 2 others l ’ angola contribuera au fonds de solidarité pour la sécurité alimentaire en afrique le président angolais l ’ a annoncé lors de son entretien avec m. graziano da silva 30 janvier 2013 , luanda - la république d 'angola contribuera au fonds de solidarité pour la sécurité alimentaire en afrique , destiné à stimuler les efforts visant à l 'éradication de la faim sur le continent , a annoncé aujourd 'hui le président angolais , m. josé eduardo dos santos .
" l 'angola ne peut demeurer étranger à la lutte contre la faim " , a déclaré le président lors de son entretien à luanda avec m. josé graziano da silva , directeur général de la fao .
" angola cannot be absent from the fight against hunger , " said president dos santos during a meeting in luanda with the director-general of the un food and agriculture organization , josé graziano da silva .
by bill alpert and saranya kapura tough investment banker has met his match breeding hungarian hogs .
seychelles inflation dips to 3.6 pct in september : stats office friend of chechen man shot to death by fbi in orlando deported new and more virulent strain of hiv is spreading rapidly through russia , ...
us authorities accused of intimidating associates of chechen killed by fbi are the reports of a syrian ' sex jihad ' a hoax ? secondscoeur mining is set to dig itself out of a hole - barrons.com coeur mining is set to dig itself out of a hole commentary : is the st lucia government rendering citizens impotent and frustrated ?
arundel residents say ordinance preventing use of campers as homes intrudes on rights an importer / agent submits the declaration form and all supporting documents to the customs office / house at the port of entry .
it is also required that all fittings and accessories of the vehicle as well as passengers and accompanying luggage are declared to customs at the time of entry .
in case where the importer is unable to deposit a guarantee either in a form of a cash deposit or a bank guarantee , he / she may request the embassy to issue a letter to customs for granting approval of the importer ’ s self-guarantee .
in case where motor vehicles or motorcycles are temporarily imported into thailand for a short visit via the border points and to be re-exported at the conclusion of the visit , but the importer fails to do so within the time-limit as indicated in the bond and security paper , provided he / she does not intend to violate the regulations , a 100-baht fine per day , but not exceeding1,000 baht in total , shall be charged from the due date of the contract .
in case where boats / vessels are temporarily brought into thailand and to be re-exported at the conclusion of the visit , but the importer fails to do so within the time-limit as indicated in the bond and security paper , provided he / she does not intend to violate the regulations , a 500-baht fine per day , but not exceeding 5,000 baht in total , shall be charged from the due date of the contract .
alassane ouattara is keen for the ivorian government to buy back real estate that was acquired by félix houphouët-boignyand was sold off during the laurent gbagbo era . ( ... )
alassane ouattara is hoping to make ivory coast 's power outages a thing of the past by opening up the energy market to competition . ( ... )
last july ’ s replacement of mines minister adama toungaraby jean-claude brou has not lowered the tension between the ivorian authorities and the country ’ s mining companies . ( ... )
" the police arrested the director of netpress on a warrant issued by the prosecutor of the republic and which had as motive ' treason ' , " hit kampala , " a netpress journalist told afp on condition of anonymity . " since monday morning , the anxiety has been palpable in bujumbura for all those imprisoned for his work .
in september 2008 he was arrested on charges of a spokesman for shebab has warned burundi it could be next on the list .
the country 's army said it had stepped up security in response .
a court in chile convicts four men for torturing and beating to death 24-year-old gay man daniel zamudio in a santiago park in march . ( 10 / 17 / 2013 8 : 59 : 35 pm ) art isn ’ t just in jump project ’ s future , it ’ s adorning the work site fri oct 18 , 2013 01 : 11 am edt tickets on sale for the acting companys hamlet fri oct 18 , 2013 05 : 11 am edt geese - cooked and uncooked fri oct 18 , 2013 03 : 11 am edt the truth is unnecessary fri oct 18 , 2013 03 : 11 am edt movers and shakers october 18 , 2013 fri oct 18 , 2013 03 : 11 am edt movers and shakers october 17 , 2013 thu oct 17 , 2013 03 : 11 am edt utility scam jolts business owner thu oct 17 , 2013 03 : 11 am edt eastern idahoans participate in ’ shakeout ’ drill thu oct 17 , 2013 9 : 11 pm edt cox sworn in as utah lieutenant governor thu oct 17 , 2013 09 : 11 am edt bail set at $ 1m in nampa stabbing death thu oct 17 , 2013 09 : 11 am edt city of clarkston voters decide ems tax levy continuation of services wed oct 16 , 2013 5 : 11 pm edt god on the gridiron : seahawks dvd extols a higher power wed oct 16 , 2013 3 : 11 pm edt ontario newborn ’ s ’ selfies ’ go viral thu oct 17 , 2013 3 : 11 pm edt ron and mary bitner honored as farm family of the year thu oct 17 , 2013 03 : 11 am edt bail set at $ 1m in nampa stabbing death thu oct 17 , 2013 3 : 11 pm edt man charged with raping woman he met online thu oct 17 , 2013 3 : 11 pm edt dems to idaho prisons board : let state run icc wed oct 16 , 2013 9 : 11 pm edt itd pledges funds if stalemate continues thu oct 17 , 2013 1 : 11 pm edt new panida board members welcomed wed oct 16 , 2013 1 : 11 pm edt utt sentenced in sex case wed oct 16 , 2013 1 : 11 pm edt there are cries for other caribbean governments to invest in liat – arguably , if they had any confidence in liat ’ s board , they might do so – but it appears they do not !
if that is the case , then the failed board , the business model and the ownership structure has to change .
the problem is that liat is a tax collector for the governments , 50 or 60 % of every ticket goes to governments as taxes and tariffs .
brunton tells us a lot , he confirms that liat is subsidised , so what is the crap coming from gonsalves about cal being subsidised , remember that rubbish , nose in the garbish bin again .
he tells us we must cut back on destinations and routes .
he tells us a lot in that article , i recommend you all read it for yourselves .
the acquisition had been approved by the government , the board had wanted to buy bombardier aircraft .
[ its not sure if brunton negotiated the atr deal and in doing so advised the government accordingly ] .
we do link to other websites we think you may enjoy but we are not responsible for the practices , or content of , those websites .
in addition to order processing needs , we may send an occasional promotional electronic newsletter with offers and information we think may be of interest to you .
if you do not wish to receive these newsletters you may unsubscribe at the bottom of the email .
by jack houghwall street cheered the deal to reopen the government .
but will investors cheer earnings ?
what to buy and avoid .
by john kimelman is the web portal worth much without alibaba ?
and a few closing words about the engineers of the washington shutdown .
select an item and use the middle arrows to add or remove it from your routine .
dominican court ’ s ruling on citizenship stirs emotions in new york 20 : 46 president of artsakh to participate in ceremony of “ european friends of armenia ” 18 : 17 minister of foreign affairs to pay a visit to uno in armenia 14 : 34 there can be no military solution to artsakh issue : james appathurai azerbaijan ’ s oil money is for pr now all news from the section the 20-minute film “ clay person ” by the young director aren vatyan has been awarded gold family members not participate in first trial of hrachya harutyunyan the family members of hrachya harutyunyan who is accused in the car accident happened at the course of the meeting with the deputy minister of education and science of the there can be no military solution to artsakh issue : james appathurai schoolchildren to make protests in paris for defending of armenian pupil ’ s rightsminister of foreign affairs to pay a visit to uno in armeniadeputy mayor of yerevan aram sukiasyan to meet his counterpart of lyon julien-laferrière documentsmayor of suri district of diyarbakir laid wreath on memorial of victims of armenian cultural event to be organized in shirakambassador of poland attends reopening of kindergarten in bjnigyumri prepares for “ cis cultural capital ” program events 30 theatrical-groups to participate in festival of “ seed of pomegranate ” president of artsakh to participate in ceremony of “ european friends of armenia ” tribute is provided to commemoration of napoleon ’ s armenian bodyguard roustam raza in ellen degeneres to host 2014 oscars " pregomesh " by sirusho to represent armenia in ogae song contestfilm dedicated to mark saghatelyan ’ s memory to be shown on august 1 about us | partners | links | advertise with us | careers “ it ’ s time to take this issue head on and deal with it in our homes .
and the best way to start is with new residential construction , ” krist told kwbe radio .
men interested in studying for the priesthood in the diocese of duluth are encouraged to contact a member of the vocation team .
shrine offering , visit a blatant provocation to victimized nations10-18 21 : 25 the recent ritual offering by japanese prime minister shinzo abe to the yasukuni shrine in tokyo and the ensuing noisy visit to the notorious facility are but a blatant provocation to the victimized nations and a threat to post-world war ii order .
commentary : shrine offering , visit a blatant provocation to victimized nations is it easy for you to find a decent job in beijing after graduation ? of privacy and our company will act accordingly .
see faqs meet the trojans set for november 4th - fox16.com little rock , ar israël a prévenu qu ’ il réagirait si la livraison de missiles russes est tension perceptible au moyen-orient après des révélations qu 'aurait fait le bashar el assad aurait fait ces déclarations dans une interview accordée à al-manar , une chaine de télévision proche du mouvement shiite libanais si cette cargaison de missiles s-300 est livrée à la syrie , israël a prévenu il est difficile pour l ’ instant de se prononcer sur le contenu exact de mais certaines sources indiquent le président syrien a laissé entendre que la première cargaison de missiles a été reçue et que le reste arrivera bientôt .
israël avait déjà mené cette année 3 frappes aériennes contre la syrie .
le président bashar el assad aurait même prévenu dans son interview contre il aurait aussi confirmé que les combattants du hezbollah opèrent près de la frontière libanaise , où les rebelles sont assiégés dans la ville stratégique de d 'après les activistes de l 'opposition et des associations de défense des droits de l 'homme des centaines de civils ont été blessés et vivent dans des c 'est dans ce contexte que le la principale coalition de l 'opposition a annoncé qu 'elle ne prendra pas part à la conférence internationale sur la syrie la conférence devrait se tenir le mois prochain à genève en suisse .
rite of electwelcome to the webpage for the diocese of duluth office of worship .
our hope is that you will find this page a useful source for resources in celebrating the church 's sacred rites and catechesis in liturgy.as we prepare for the lenten season with our catechumens and candidates , the offoce of liturgy announces : so who are you , chris baker , and why are you on my radio station ?
we have to do our best ; we owe this generation ’ s veterans and soldiers that .
look at what is growing in our government indoctrination centers ; the friendly " two child " policy .
brides throwing catsbouquets are old and busted .
all the hippest brides are < a href = " http : / / bridesthrowingcats.com / " target = " _ blank " > throwing cats * < / a > instead .
f * ck you congressthis one clearly < a href = " http : / / fuckyoucongress.com / " target = " _ blank " > needs no introduction < / a > .
how may we hate you ? true dispatches of horrible customers from < a href = " http : / / hotel-job.tumblr.com / " target = " _ blank " > two hotel concierges in times square < / a > .
pleasecontactannetteif you plan toattend any of the youth ministers ' meetings.phone 218-724-9111 or e-mail at amerritt @ dioceseduluth.org exec who led pilot flying j briefly after jimmy haslam bought browns has new job fri sep 20 , 2013 2 : 23 pm edt cleveland police looking for suspects in shooting death of a man fri sep 6 , 2013 4 : 23 pm edt statewide alert for sidney man thu oct 17 , 2013 10 : 23 pm edt ny cadets and chefs join forces in the kitchen fri oct 18 , 2013 02 : 23 am edt government shutdown ’ s local impact on wpafb thu oct 17 , 2013 6 : 23 pm edt cloudy , cold and wet weather on the way thu oct 17 , 2013 8 : 23 pm edt grand jury hands up indictments thu oct 17 , 2013 8 : 23 pm edt sexual assault reported at bgsu tue aug 27 , 2013 2 : 23 pm edt france ’ ready to punish ’ syria tue aug 27 , 2013 2 : 23 pm edt indian ministry > prayersojibwe prayergrandfather , look at our brokenness.we know that in all creationonly the human familyhas strayed from the sacred way.we know that we are the oneswho are dividedand we are the oneswho must come back togetherto walk in the sacred way.grandfather , sacred one , teach us love , compassion , honorthat we may heal the earthand heal each other.- author unknown the our father " nossinan ishpiminggijigong ebiian.apegishkitchitwawendaming kidijinikasowin.apegishbi-dagwishinomagak kidogimawiwin.enendaman apegishijiwebak , tibishko gijigong me gogaie aking.mijishinam nongomgijigak ninpakwejiganiminanminik eioiangendasso-gijigak.bonigidetawishinamgaie ga-iji-nishkiigoian , eji-bonigidetawangidwagi-iji-nishkiiiangidjig.kego gaieijiwijishigangengagwedibeningewining.midagwenamawishinamdash maianadak.mege-ing. "
in the language of the anishinabewe say " miigwetch " for visiting our page .
aprobados bs 30 millones para fomentar actividad editorial en universidades este fondo especial permitirá estimular la promoción editorial en las casas de estudios , que mediante estos recursos , tendrán un apoyo para acompañar el costo de los libros requeridos para la formación de pregrado y posgrado cuarta feria del libro universitario se realizará en caracas del 14 al 17 de noviembre entre los principales atractivos de la feria destacan una exposición biográfica en honor a salvador plaza , una cita con cátedra del humor que estará a cargo de los escritores venezolanos luis brito garcía , roberto hernández montoya y roberto malaver ; y un taller para la realización de libros primer congreso de la pluriversidad se realizará desde el 21 de octubre el congreso contará con la participación de invitados nacionales e internacionales provenientes de colombia , ecuador , bolivia y estados unidos , y expondrán temas como : calidad con pertinencia social , diálogo de saberes , la descolonización , la integración latinoamericana y caribeña , entre otros la comunidad de la balza , en la parroquia panaquire en el estado miranda , cuenta ya con una infraestructura donde se formarán a los jóvenes que cursan secundaria .
es el liceo bolivariano hugo chávez , cuya construcción fue paralizada hace cinco años durante la jornada del gobierno de eficiencia en la calle , la ministra de educación , maryann hanson , informó que en los simoncitos y en la escuela bolivariana se incorporaron tres aulas de clase para niños y niñas con diversidad funcional pdvsa la estancia ha entregado morrales y materiales didácticos a 30.000 niños del país la gerente general de este centro cultura , beatrice sansó , dijo que sólo en la parroquia sucre , en caracas , fueron distribuidos 6.000 morrales a estudiantes de 12 escuelas jaua : maestros de miranda deben ser atendidos en su justa demanda " el gobernador de miranda debería atender personalmente a los maestros a su cargo y responder a su justa demanda .
¡ basta de burla ! " , escribió elías jaua en su twitter la centrafrique lance un mandat d 'arrêt international contre françois bozizé c 'est ce qu 'a annoncé le procureur de la ville de bangui vendredi la république centrafricaine a lancé un mandat d 'arrêt international contre le président déchu françois bozizé , 66 ans , renversé en mars , pour crimes contre l 'humanité et incitation au génocide notamment , a annoncé vendredi le procureur de bangui alain tolmo .
" depuis le 29 mai 2013 , un mandat d 'arrêt international a été émis contre le principal auteur françois bozizé , " a annoncé le procureur .
il a souligné que , parmi les chefs d 'accusation , figuraient notamment des crimes relevant du statut de la cour pénale internationale ( cpi ) , entre autres : crimes est également accusé d 'assassinats , au nombre de 22 actuellement ; des destruction et incendie des maisons d 'habitation au nombre de 3823 pour le " depuis le 2 mai 2013 sur la base des informations factuelles , détaillées , précises , contenues dans les prescriptions écrites du ministre de la justice , des instructions ont été transmises au parquet général , pour ordonner l 'ouverture d 'une enquête contre m. françois bozizé yangouvonda et autres , pour des faits ou du moins pour des chefs d 'accusation multiples et lamentablement graves , " a précisé le magistrat .
d 'autres mandats d 'arrêt internationaux sont en d 'enquête mise en place par les autorités de bangui a rencontré jeudi le ministre centrafricain de la justice arsène sendé et va enquêter sur les violations des droits humains et autres crimes commis pendant le règne de françois bozizé , et après la prise du pouvoir par la coalition rebelle séléka le bozizé , lui-même arrivé au pouvoir par les armes en 2003 , avait été élu président en 2005 et réélu en 2011 au terme d 'un scrutin très critiqué par l 'opposition .
après l 'entrée des rebelles dans bangui , il s 'est réfugié au cameroun .
en avril , m. bozizé avait également demandé l 'ouverture d 'une enquête internationale sur les violences à bangui , où le nouveau pouvoir peine toujours the wording of the european perspective for ukraine has been excluded from the draft association agreement with the eu at the insistence of a number of countries , but it will not close its path to t ...
olha streliuk speaking about enrolment in higher education institutions out of procedure ‘ eco ballast ’ arrives for start of work on oxford-bicester line recycled stone ballast is delivered for the construction of the bicester chord.supplied by chiltern railways .
învăţământul românesc suferă ca un cal de povară .
adică el e sănătos , în putere , da-i vai de capu ’ lui !
trebuie să tragă până cade în genunchi .
iarăşi se ridică , iar e pus la ham , iar i se încarcă în spinare pietre de moară .
în cazul de faţă pietrele de moară sunt factorii de decizie din minister .
unde , bineînţeles , cel mai „ greu ” este ministrul .
uneori chiar cel ...
chit că încă nu a venit sorocul , un bilanţ al mandatelor lui traian băsescu se impune .
nu , formularea nu este adecvată , pentru că ea poate sugera un demers exhaustiv sau unul academic .
ori o încercare contabilicească , obiectivă , de a stabili o realitate .
nu-mi propun niciuna dintre cele trei variante .
eu vreau să spun cum simt eu românia după aproape două mandate , de câte cinci ani , ...
pare incredibil că după sintagma ambasadorului mark gitenstein „ simplul fapt că puteţi protesta fără teama de a fi împuşcaţi ” , ambasada statelor unite la bucureşti a deschis un site , www.banipierduti.ro , în care să poată vedea tot românul care ştie dea un search pe net cum sunt prăduiţi banii publici în românia .
probabil că s-au săturat şi americanii să vadă cu câtă nesimţire ...
inventatorii români şi-au reconfirmat meritele la salonul internaţional archimedes 2010 de la moscova la al xiii-lea salon internaţional de inventică „ archimedes 2010 ” , care s-a desfăşurat în perioada 30 martie-2 aprilie 2010 , în parcul expoziţional „ sokolniki ” din moscova , au fost etalate peste 980 de invenţii din 15 state europene şi asiatice , precum şi din 47 de regiuni din federaţia rusă .
anul acesta , românia a fost reprezentată de forumul inventatorilor români ( fir ) şi ...
o dată cu îndepărtarea lui călin popescu tăriceanu de la conducerea pnl , a ieşit din spaţiul public singurul adversar real pentru traian băsescu .
în momentul de faţă , adversarul preşedintelui a rămas el însuşi .
nici mircea geoană , nici crin antonescu nu joacă măcar în aceeaşi ligă cu preşedintele , ca să nu mai vorbim de recenta candidatură a asr prinţul radu de românia .
alegerile europarlamentare reprezintă , printre altele , şi parastasul de … câţi ani , oare ? 13 ? de la decesul societăţii civile româneşti . aş plasa momentul morţii în 1996 , odată cu câştigarea alegerilor de către emil constantinescu şi cdr .
într-un anume sens , a fost atunci triumful singurei forme de manifestare reală a societăţii civile româneşti , piaţa universităţii .
petiţiile ...
la începutul anului , numeroşi observatori îşi imaginau că de data aceasta ciclul economic global va fi diferit .
pe măsură ce se înmulţeau dovezile că economia sua cunoştea cea mai severă criză pe piaţa creditelor şi cea imobiliară de după cel de-al doilea război mondial , mulţi sperau că sănătatea structurală a economiilor europeană şi asiatică le vor împiedica să răcească ...
în lupta oamenilor politici pentru putere şi influenţă , în goana după putere şi interese personale , în încercările ( reuşite ) de manipulare a opiniei publice , ceea ce se distruge este tocmai omul , omul simplu care îşi trăieşte pur şi simplu viaţa , şi al cărui duşman cel mai mare pare să fie tot omul , chiar când natura îi este şi ea potrivnică .
de ce în ştirile şi emisiunile de pe orice post de televiziune aproape totul are de-a face cu noi , românii , cu tot ce vrei şi , mai ales , ce nu vrei să auzi că se întâmplă în românia ?
şi de ce avem parte de atâtea emisiuni de „ divertisment ” care par a fi mai mult un fel de metode primitive de îndobitocire a naţiunii ?
în contrast cu problemele euro ­ pene şi globale ce se discutau ... „ lasă , bei , uşile să se-nchidă , lasă , bei , uşile ! ! ” , acesta era mesajul la microfon al conductorului unui metrou acum câteva zile când mă întorceam de la serviciu .
un astfel de mesaj comic îţi înveseleşte ziua ?
sau te întristează impoliteţea şi barbarismul ?
nu se ştie .
românia este ţara tuturor posibilităţilor & # 8230 ; © 2013 cadran politic · rss · designed by theme junkie · powered by wordpress yemen news headlines airport to airport transport : no worries theres a bus service that leaves don muang regularly for transit passengers to suvannabhumi airport as well as a mini bus van service that also goes there .
just go to the entrance at arrival lounge or ask the airport information .
avoid the touts who may accost you or any taxis drivers --there are con men .
at the new airport the authorities have been able to curtail the touts inside the airport and rogue taxi drivers but in december they are back again by the doors so watch out and do not accept rides from these taxi cabs .
go to the taxi stand and tell the counter where you wish to go .
they will give you chit .
you pay 50baht extra on top of the meter price for taxis .
teens allegedly had fetus in bag fri oct 18 , 2013 01 : 20 am edt debate on kanawha school calendar riles many thu oct 17 , 2013 11 : 20 pm edt obama lashes republicans , says americans are fed up thu oct 17 , 2013 7 : 20 pm edt fbi was investigating crum for alleged money laundering thu oct 17 , 2013 7 : 20 pm edt new trial ordered for man convicted in mu player ’ s death thu oct 17 , 2013 7 : 20 pm edt conviction overturned in ’ 08 slaying of mu standout fri oct 18 , 2013 01 : 20 am edt colors of the season fri oct 18 , 2013 01 : 20 am edt ohio ag seeking relief for scammed ironton residents fri oct 18 , 2013 01 : 20 am edt ironton market ’ s first year ending fri oct 18 , 2013 01 : 20 am edt prison term for fla .
man who shipped pills to wva fri oct 18 , 2013 05 : 20 am edt maine ’ s collins leads the ’ common-sense coalition ’ fri oct 18 , 2013 03 : 20 am edt new trial ordered for man convicted in wv player ’ s death thu oct 17 , 2013 11 : 20 pm edt new info : garner to get new trial in shooting death of former mu football player thu oct 17 , 2013 5 : 20 pm edt — attackers in burundi chopped off the limbs of a 5-year-old albino boy and thoma vyegura , who was not albino , was also killed while trying to protect his cdc back at work to track the flu fri oct 18 , 2013 03 : 07 am edt mcconnell : further shutdowns ’ off the table ’ thu oct 17 , 2013 7 : 07 pm edt u of a researchers back to work ; university unclear on back pay thu oct 17 , 2013 7 : 07 pm edt see some creative crafts at war eagle thu oct 17 , 2013 7 : 07 pm edt ’ never forgotten ’ : state agencies stop in jonesboro to help families of the missing fri oct 18 , 2013 01 : 07 am edt furloughed worker glad to be back on the job thu oct 17 , 2013 9 : 07 pm edt how to program an antenna for kait thu oct 17 , 2013 7 : 07 pm edt craighead co. roads in need of help thu oct 17 , 2013 5 : 07 pm edt shutdown is over , but for how long ?
thu oct 17 , 2013 5 : 07 pm edt sustainable communities focus of ua summit in nlr thu oct 17 , 2013 11 : 07 am edt update : kid president ’ s new song to benefit ar charity fri oct 18 , 2013 01 : 07 am edt update : a.g. responds to lrsd desegregation offer thu oct 17 , 2013 11 : 07 pm edt pinewood elementary parents react to bus hijacking thu oct 17 , 2013 11 : 07 pm edt political strategists weigh in on end of government shutdown thu oct 17 , 2013 9 : 07 pm edt police : school bus hijacking suspect says he did it to ’ save his life ’ thu oct 17 , 2013 7 : 07 pm edt school bus security in the wake of hijacking thu oct 17 , 2013 9 : 07 pm edt workers back on the job at camp robinson thu oct 17 , 2013 7 : 07 pm edt the first woman approached by jacksonville bus hijacker speaks out fri oct 18 , 2013 01 : 07 am edt fair minded george : the fair ’ s biggest winner thu oct 17 , 2013 9 : 07 pm edt boo at the zoo opens to public friday thu oct 17 , 2013 9 : 07 pm edt mcdaniel offers settlement proposal in deseg case thu oct 17 , 2013 3 : 07 pm edt today in the news : school bus hijacked by knife-wielding man thu oct 17 , 2013 7 : 07 pm edt what to watch : ' reign ' premieres on the cw thu oct 17 , 2013 5 : 07 pm edt hot online : nfl takes stock of athletes thu oct 17 , 2013 1 : 07 pm edt jailed pussy riot member goes back on hunger strike in russiacnn internationalrussia to transfer hunger-striking pussy riot punkyahoo ! 7 newssee all 91 sourcesrelated nadezhda tolokonnikova rpt-fitch downgrades russia 's rosneft to ' bbb- ' ; off rwn ; outlook stablereuters ukrussia lets china in on east siberia oil productionwww.worldbulletin.nethighly cited : china , russia agree to tap siberian oilxinhuasee all 23 sourcesrelated rosneft this evening it is my pleasure to be joined by missouri ’ s outstanding first lady , georganne nixon , and our son jeremiah .
before i begin to lay out our state ’ s agenda for the year , i would like to thank the people of missouri for the privilege of serving a second term as governor .
i am grateful for your continued trust and support , and the opportunity to lead our great state forward .
but whatever our small differences may be , we are united in a common purpose : to serve all the people of missouri ... to make their lives better … and to make life better for our children and grandchildren .
will you please stand , with all the members of our military past and present , and accept the heartfelt gratitude of your state ?
we came together to help our neighbors hit hard by twisters and ice storms , floods and drought .
in the grip of an historic recession , we did what every family in missouri did : we tightened our belts and cut spending .
two weeks ago – on the day after my inauguration – i went back to detroit to meet with auto suppliers and manufacturers .
we got our first good look at the ford transit , one of the fantastic new vehicles we ’ re going to build right here in the show-me state .
so in my budget , we increase funding for education .
and we increase it by $ 150 million .
our children are our first priority .
they are missouri ’ s future .
and i ’ m proud to report that missouri ’ s high school graduation rate is now the seventh-highest in the nation .
that ’ s why my budget includes $ 100 million in new funding for our k-12 classrooms .
we ’ ll use it to train more teachers , modernize equipment , and lengthen the school year .
two years ago , i convened a summit to lay out my agenda for higher education .
i challenged the leaders of all our public two- and four-year institutions to develop a new funding model – based on performance .
and that ’ s what we did .
we ’ ll be helping missourians who never finished college , who are underemployed and who need degrees to move up , reach their full potential .
now that ’ s a mission we can all get behind .
first , we need to streamline missouri ’ s economic incentive programs – and there are a lot of them – so that they ’ re easier to use and understand .
and while we ’ re at it , i propose that we eliminate another ten commissions at dnr that are redundant and unnecessary .
we can take common-sense steps to cut red tape for businesses – without backing off our commitment to protecting our air , land and water .
this isn ’ t the time to re-open the debate or reargue the merits of the president ’ s health care plan .
i had some problems with it , and i know many of you did as well .
but congress passed it – the president signed it – and the supreme court upheld it .
it ’ s the law of the land .
and it ’ s not within our power to rewrite federal laws , even if we wanted to .
it is within our power – it ’ s our responsibility – to now do what ’ s right for missouri .
or will we let the tax dollars that missourians send to washington be spent in other states instead ?
other states would get the benefits , and we ’ d get the bill .
friends , let ’ s put the politics of health care aside for just a moment and look at this as a business decision for the state of missouri .
for these business leaders , this is not a political decision .
it ’ s an economic one .
and we shouldn ’ t let last year ’ s politics get in the way of next year ’ s economic growth .
if washington drops the ball , we ’ ll do what ’ s right for missouri .
we ’ ll always do what ’ s right for missouri .
and there ’ s a human element to this that can ’ t be ignored .
we must do everything in our power to get folks the treatment they need , before it ’ s too late .
missourians like vishal patel .
vishal is 23 .
he has a rare form of cerebral palsy , and gets around in a motorized wheelchair .
but as he told me in a letter , his real dream was to get a real job – with a real paycheck .
but the bond issue must be focused on our state ’ s most pressing needs .
and we must have a way to pay for it .
as i said before , we can only move forward with a bond issuance if we have a way to pay for it .
saying “ we ’ ll figure it out later ” won ’ t work .
that ’ s not how we became a triple-a state .
the way to pay for the bond issuance is to finally get our tax credit system under control .
we ’ ve worked on reining in tax credits for years .
in 2010 , i appointed a statewide , bipartisan , tax credit commission to study the issue .
but two years later , these reforms have yet to pass , and the costs of inaction continue to grow .
this year , if the legislature does not send a campaign contribution limit bill to my desk , i will do everything in my power to get it on the ballot and make sure it passes .
just two weeks ago , i stood at the steps of this capitol , and spoke of my vision for the future of our beloved state : and where the natural beauty of our state is preserved and cherished for all time .
that future is ours to build .
and we can only do it by working together .
when i first came to the capitol in 1987 , i was the youngest person in the senate .
i had a lot to learn .
and i was fortunate to serve with many dedicated and capable legislators on both sides of the aisle .
they showed me what public service is and what it requires of each of us .
but we worked together to get things done for the good of the people .
and in those many years , my faith in the people of missouri has never faltered .
my faith in our bedrock values has never wavered .
“ let the good of the people be the supreme law . ’ ’
now let us seek god ’ s everlasting grace and protection to finish the good works he has entrusted to our care .
site map | terms of use | privacy statement | copyright & trademark notice | eeo eco kent shaheen to tour nh businesses fri oct 18 , 2013 05 : 19 am edt maine ’ s collins leads the ’ common-sense coalition ’ fri oct 18 , 2013 03 : 19 am edt tea partys shutdown tactics pose new challenges for republicans of all stripes fri oct 18 , 2013 03 : 19 am edt poise and precision push patriots qb brady thu oct 17 , 2013 7 : 19 pm edt apnewsbreak : new charges in blackwater shootings thu oct 17 , 2013 5 : 19 pm edt back bay harrys raises bar fri oct 18 , 2013 01 : 15 am edt state reopens newburyport clams flats closed for 80 years thu oct 17 , 2013 07 : 15 am edt a national grid employee was injured in brocktons montello section when his truck and a car collided thu oct 17 , 2013 11 : 15 pm edt today in the news : school bus hijacked by knife-wielding man thu oct 17 , 2013 7 : 15 pm edt will bridgewater be a casino town ?
thu oct 17 , 2013 5 : 15 pm edt is your pet the best ?
share the tale !
thu oct 17 , 2013 7 : 15 pm edt natick trails day saturday thu oct 17 , 2013 5 : 15 pm edt weymouth lifts night ban on outdoor activities fri oct 18 , 2013 03 : 15 am edt if you are using " windows " or any other applicable software , and which to receive a notice of receipt , before you send , click " options " and then " return receipt " to ensure we have received your notice blog archivemore from ozodi.tj чанд қадами дигари милиса ба самти полис " алимардонов наомад , президентро интизорем " баҳси " русал " бо " талко " аст ё бо коршарики он ?
« истиқлол » -и душанбе ғолиби мусобиқоти қаҳрамонии футбол узви гурӯҳи pussy riot-ро ба маҳбаси дигар интиқол медиҳанд radio ozodi ( in tajik ) features & commentary not all equal in moscow , a tale of two riots ri lawmaker wants calamari named state appetizer thu feb 28 , 2013 4 : 25 pm est hundreds gather in ri at mass for benedict xvi thu feb 28 , 2013 2 : 25 pm est ri native to lead naval war college in newport thu feb 28 , 2013 10 : 25 am est reward offered for leads in cat shooting fri oct 18 , 2013 06 : 25 am edt red sox hold off tigers , win game 5 fri oct 18 , 2013 12 : 25 am edt filmmakers document strange events in ’ bridgewater triangle ’ thu oct 17 , 2013 8 : 25 pm edt filmmakers document strange events in bridgewater triangle ’ thu oct 17 , 2013 6 : 25 pm edt red sox move within one game of the world series fri oct 18 , 2013 02 : 25 am edt shooting at a liquor store sends a male to the hospital fri oct 18 , 2013 02 : 25 am edt shooting at liquor store sends one to the hospital fri oct 18 , 2013 12 : 25 am edt red sox fans sticking by their team fri oct 18 , 2013 12 : 25 am edt contractors offer to fix davey lopes pool fri oct 18 , 2013 12 : 25 am edt ex-doctor to pay $ 1.2m in fraud case thu oct 17 , 2013 6 : 25 pm edt federal workers back on job in ri thu oct 17 , 2013 2 : 25 pm edt nuevos ataques y amenazas de muerte contra sindicalistas en guatemala homehomehot topics ( 4 new ) current affairs ( 1 new ) world newsbusiness & # 38 ; financeindustry sectorstechnology ( 10 new ) sciencesport ( 1 new ) lifestyleentertainment & # 38 ; arts ( 21 new ) world newsworld newseuropenorth americalatin americacaribbeanasiaafricamiddle eastsouth pacificlatin americalatin americasouth americacentral americacentral americacosta ricael salvadorguatemalahondurasnicaraguapanama afex pulls out of rumbek over tax and other issues n. bahr el gazal votes on new parliamentary changessudan tribune 05 : 07 18-oct-13 hair we go - how to get the message through !
herne bay are aiming to knock two-time fa trophy winners grays athletic out of the competition on their own patch this weekend .
hythe town can go some way to erasing the painful memory of their fa cup exit when they hit the fa trophy trail this weekend .
the draw for the fa cup fourth qualifying round has thrown up a huge kent derby .
his neck is going to be killing him by the end of the night , but it 'll be worth it .
you don 't have to go with the most obvious " austin powers " costume .
judge chews out reluctant juror in murder case thu oct 17 , 2013 8 : 29 pm edt what ’ s shaking ?
earthquake preparedness thu oct 17 , 2013 8 : 29 pm edt seattle ’ s beacon hill murder case : can you help police ?
fri oct 18 , 2013 02 : 29 am edt 13-year-old in court for brutal beating in westlake park fri oct 18 , 2013 02 : 29 am edt seattle neighborhood has six burglaries in two days fri oct 18 , 2013 06 : 29 am edt ’ there has been a breakdown in the legislative process ’ congresswoman cathy mcmorris rodgers tells khq . fri oct 18 , 2013 12 : 29 am edt suspects in the beating death of 88-year-old delbert belton in court thursday thu oct 17 , 2013 8 : 29 pm edt the nose : auditor ’ s avatar doesn ’ t win our vote fri oct 18 , 2013 06 : 29 am edt sticker shock : auditor ’ s avatar doesn ’ t win our vote fri oct 18 , 2013 04 : 29 am edt court : governor can withhold documents fri oct 18 , 2013 04 : 29 am edt a crucial presidential election this june , and one thing is clear : it is up to for the east african community as we usher in 2010 challenge for the other eac members is that some of them cannot be said to have provision on proxy voting — voting on behalf of burundians in the diaspora — laws are yet to provide for the regulatory mechanisms on the activities of assassinating the winner .
in 1961 , prince louis rwagasore of uprona won the the then ruling uprona lost to the frodebu of melchior ndadaye , who was murdered there was a general sigh of relief when outgoing president domitien ndayizaye needs access to the ports of dar es salaam and mombasa on the indian ocean coast training to political parties , civil society , and other stakeholders in how to the provisions on proxy voting — the voting on behalf of burundians in the the investment fund that the frenchman gilles assouline wanted to set up in juba via the british company gps3 investments ltd may never see the light of day . ( ... ) share reg fees are 5000 baht per 1m baht .
however the ruling is not clear but costs change due to this so use our prices only as a general guideline.bangkok costs are a lot higher than chiangmai.you can have 1m baht company but no and only available for us residents setting up in thailand or go to the section on amity treaty but before you think of starting one you must have an existing lawyers in bangkok , pattaya , korat , phuket and use a corporate law office in bangkok .
if house report = 6000 baht for an old house ( over 2 years ) & 3000 baht for a the security as a company .
once formed the remaining fees are the same as a company .
our fee is 14,000 baht which includes govt fees and id tax code work .
we now offer " o " visa services .
for new companies the new law requires a work permit to obtain a b visa from penang or another country .
if you do not meet the required residency visas . visas to the usa , uk etc we cannot help nor once you are in business for 12 months and you have we do charge travel & expenses if we have to fly to the main centres but we do keep these to a minimum as a lot of our work we do use other law offices .
these may vary but please do not hesitate to ask us. consultations will incur a 1000 baht feebut some lawyers charge 2500baht to 10,000 baht per copurt hearing on top opf your orginal deposit fee at the start .
we do assist all buyers of sicad asignará en próxima subasta 93 millones de dólares a empresas y siete a personas naturales sectores de autorepuestos y metalmecánica tendrán prioridad en la próxima convocatoria .
también se incluye alimentos y juguetes , productos de caucho , fabricación y ... asesor del bcv resalta que el sucre busca liberar dependencia estructural del dólarse basa en la utilización de una moneda virtual “ sucre ” para el registro de las operaciones exclusivamente entre los bancos centrales , en tanto que la liquidación local ... gran misión vivienda venezuela ha culminado 456.795 viviendas en 30 mesescon la cooperación de la república popular de china se construyen 13.000 viviendas en ciudad tiuna , como parte de la masiva construcción de casas que adelanta el ...
sicad asignará en próxima subasta 93 millones de dólares a empresas y siete a personas naturales asesor del bcv resalta que el sucre busca liberar dependencia estructural del dólar gran misión vivienda venezuela ha culminado 456.795 viviendas en 30 meses maduro aprobó recursos para el 10 % de aumento salarial a partir del 1º de noviembre el presidente de la república , nicolás maduro , aprobó un punto de cuenta para la cancelación del aumento de 10 % del salario mínimo , que entrará en vigencia a partir del próximo 1º de noviembre subasta del sicad adjudicó 94,8 millones de dólares a 821 empresas en una rueda de prensa desde la sede de petróleos de venezuela , en caracas , detalló que la cuota de asignación a personas naturales se va a incrementar en la próxima subasta -el 21 de octubre- de 5 a 7 millones de dólares " no está planteada una devaluación aquí " , dijo este viernes el vicepresidente para el área económica de venezuela , rafael ramírez , en rueda de prensa , actualmente la tasa de cambio venezolana se ubica en 6,30 bolívares por dólar estadounidense el presidente de corpomiranda , elías jaua , denunció que el presupuesto de la gobernación de miranda es destinado a mantener la clientela del partido primero justicia y aseguró que " mientras el gobernador y su gente pasean , el gobierno nacional trabaja en función del pueblo " françois hollande was keen to mark the occasion for the international investiture of the new president of mali , ibrahim boubacar keïta " ibk " . ( ... )
ibrahim boubakar keita - known by his friends as le kankélentiki - “ man of his word ” in bambara - has an extensive network of influential friends backing his presidential bid . ( ... )
the mali government ’ s director-general for geology and mines , lassana guindo , has ( ... )
the man in charge of exploration on papillon resources ’ gold project at fekola since ( ... )
booker wins senate race in new jerseynbcnews.comfor new jersey , odd day to elect a new senatornew york timessee all 903 sourcesrelated cory booker • best-selling author tom keyser , who is not only the best storyteller i have ever met , he is the most efficient and reliable writer in the business .
maybe i could get a volume discount if i register at the same time as my 17-year-old daughter , who also has her sights set on a post-secondary basketball career .
surely if i can handle my seven kids and run a business publication , i could squeeze in a few hours a day for basketball practice .
and three or four hours per day for classes .
oh yeah , and a couple of hours per evening for studying .
hmmm .
so , if you are reading , coach dan , add me to the list for tryouts this summer .
and ask the trainer to load up on cortisone and advil .
in those days , i wrote virtually all of the advertising copy , and we were going to press on monday , so i needed to drive out to canmore immediately to conduct the interview .
as i worked out the details of a friday evening interview , it suddenly hit me that nicholas would be devastated if i cancelled our trip to the mountains .
i told garry that one angle for the ad feature was to have me bring my son to stay at the lodge and write a first-person piece on the experience .
garry thought it was a great idea and invited nick and me to have dinner with him and his colleague peter .
on the one-hour drive to canmore , i counselled nick on the importance of being polite and respectful while we ate dinner and while i did the interview .
windtower became one of my best clients in the years to follow , and i think our initial meeting with nick along for the ride was a big factor in creating a great client relationship .
angela behaved like an angel and clearly helped me win over a new client that would also go on to be a regular advertiser .
as we approached the green , one of our group suggested we just pick up our balls and head to the next tee .
great idea , i thought , particularly since my tee shot on the par 3 had fallen short of the green and a par was unlikely .
9 . you didn & # 8217 ; t slip on some netting at the start of the day and fall awkwardly to the floor , injuring your wrist .
4 . you didn & # 8217 ; t try to carry a queen-size boxspring down to your basement only to find out that there is no way it would fit around the tight corner and through the door at the bottom of the stairs & # 8230 ; and you didn & # 8217 ; t gouge the newly painted walls in several places trying to get it through .
send us your mug and we 'll show it to the world on good day arkansas .
peter taylor is the frontrunner to replace martin allen as gillingham manager .
gillingham ’ s winning run in league 1 was ended by shrewsbury on saturday . © 2013 indexmundi - all rights reservedbullish on u.s. oil and gas - barrons.com the acts of the apostles provides an historic framework for understanding the rest of the new testament .
paul ’ s letters in particular come alive in a new way when they are read within the context of the acts narrative .
he added : & ldquo ; kenya , our neighbour , is now on a move to use the gmos because they see its importance , so why not us ?
i am sure the government will see the possibility of cotton farmers in the country to use the genetics , & rdquo ; he said . & ldquo ; let us advice our farmers on the benefits and safety of gmos , & rdquo ; he said .
cotton used to be protected from insects by repeated pesticide and the application of gmos to chinese cotton farmers has helped them in reducing the use of pesticide on the crop .
posted by ana maria ghimis on may 27th , 2012 / / comments off © 2012 cadran politic · rss · designed by theme junkie · powered by wordpressburundi réalités rdc : hrw dénonce les atrocités du m23 avec son allié rwandais c ’ est un rapport accablant pour le rwanda que l ’ ong qui défend les droits atrocités que les rebelles du m23 continuent de perpétrer à l ’ est de la république démocratique du congo ( rdc ) , apporte également de nouvelles preuves indiquant l ’ implication large de troupes rwandaises dans ce conflit aux côtés du m23 . & bdquo ; non seulement le rwanda permet au m23 de se procurer des recrues et de l ’ équipement sur son territoire , mais aussi les militaires rwandais continuent d ’ apporter un soutien direct à ce groupe qui commet des exactions « , déclare le directeur de la division afrique de hrw .
daniel bekele . & bdquo ; ce soutien renforce un groupe armé qui est responsable de nombreux meurtres , viols et autres crimes les rebelles du m23 ont exécuté sommairement au moins 44 personnes et violé au moins 61 femmes et filles depuis mars 2013 dans l ’ est de la république démocratique du congo ( rdc ) « affirme ce rapport publié ce 22 juillet .
hrw annonce avoir recueilli ces informations suite à plus de 100 entretiens réalisés depuis le mois de mars 2013 , comprenant des témoignages d ’ anciens combattants du m23 qui ont déserté ce mouvement entre fin mars et juillet ainsi que des civils vivant près de la frontière rwando-congolaise , dont nombreux sont hrw affirme que les combattants du m23 , mènent particulièrement une chasse à l ’ homme contre les populations de l ’ ethnie hutue dans les territoires qu ’ ils contrôlent . & bdquo ; les 25 et 26 avril , des combattants du m23 ont tué 15 civils d ’ ethnie hutue dans plusieurs villages du groupement de busanza dans le territoire de rutshuru , et au moins six autres à la mi-juin , apparemment pour & bdquo ; punir « les villageois pour leur prétendue collaboration avec des milices hutues le rapport fait également état de nombreux arrestations et enlèvements qui ont eu lieu au cours des dernières semaines dans le territoire de rutshuru par des combattants du m23 .
les victimes sont des dizaines de civils , la plupart d ’ ethnie hutue .
les personnes enlevées quand elles ne sont pas exécutées , sont & bdquo ; un ancien policier du m23 qui a déserté ce mouvement a rapporté à hrw qu ’ il avait participé à des enquêtes sur des meurtres de civils .
il a affirmé qu ’ avant chaque enquête , un commandant de haut rang du m23 , innocent kanyana lui disait : & bdquo ; c ’ est toi qui mènera l ’ enquête .
et tu diras que ce sont des bandits de la pendant l ’ attaque de la nuit du 25 avril , un groupe de combattants du m23 a traversé les villages de ruvumbura , kirambo , nyamagana et shinda , tuant et pillant sur leur passage .
une mère de trois enfants , âgée de 43 ans , a dit à hrw : & bdquo ; quand ils ont commencé à tuer des gens , nous avons fui dans la brousse .
mon mari est retourné chercher nos biens et ils l ’ ont tué .
ils lui ont tiré une balle dans la tête « . & bdquo ; dans la région de busanza , les combattants ont demandé de l ’ argent à une femme de 33 ans , quand elle a dit qu ’ elle n ’ en avait pas , ils ont entaillé son épaule d ’ un coup de machette et ont frappé son fils de 11 ans à d ’ autres cas d ’ exécutions sommaires par le m23 sont rapportés par hrw à l ’ instar de celui d ’ un homme de 62 ans qui a eu lieu fin mai à ntamugenga car ce dernier refusait de remettre ses fils au m23 ; l ’ assassinat le 15 mai d ’ un chauffeur de moto près de kiwanja parce qu ’ il refusait de leur donner de l ’ argent ; à la mi-juin , l ’ exécution par plusieurs balles dans la poitrine d ’ un plusieurs autres cas d ’ exécutions sommaires par le m23 , sur de nouvelles recrues qui tentaient de s ’ échapper ont également été rapportés .
le cas le plus interpellant est celui d ’ un déserteur connu sous le nom de tupac : & bdquo ; le 21 juin , les combattants du m23 ont capturé un des leurs , un congolais nommé & bdquo ; tupac « , alors qu ’ il essayait de s ’ enfuir près de kabuhanga .
ils l ’ ont ramené au camp militaire de kamahoro , où le commandant a ordonné à ses troupes de se mettre en formation et de l ’ abattre pour décourager d ’ autres désertions .
ils ont tué tupac de deux balles dans la poitrine tirées à bout portant « .
un déserteur du m23 a rapporté à hrw qu ’ il avait été forcé , avec d ’ autres recrues , d ’ enterrer tupac concernant les viols commis par le m23 , hrw affirme avoir documenté 61 cas de viol de femmes ou de filles par des combattants du m23 entre mars et début juillet , et affirme néanmoins qu ’ en raison de la marque d ’ infamie qui s ’ attache au viol et de la peur de représailles , le nombre réel des victimes est beaucoup plus élevé . & bdquo ; fréquemment , les violeurs avertissaient leurs victimes qu ’ elles seraient tuées si elles parlaient du viol ou si elles cherchaient à recevoir des & bdquo ; beaucoup des victimes de viol étaient dans leurs champs ou entrain de ramasser du bois .
les combattants du m23 ont accusé certaines d ’ entre elles d ’ être les & bdquo ; épouses « de combattants des fdlr .
la plupart des viols ont été commis à proximité des positions du m23 et certaines victimes ont reconnu leurs agresseurs comme étant des combattants du m23 qu ’ elles avaient vus auparavant « malgré le silence des victimes , le rapport de hrw mentionne plusieurs cas à l ’ instar de celui d ’ une fillette de 12 ans violée le 5 juillet par quatre combattants du m23 alors qu ’ elle cherchait de l ’ eau près de son village dans le territoire de rutshuru ; ou encore le cas d ’ un combattant du m23 qui le 15 avril 2013 près de bunagana a accosté une jeune femme de 18 ans et lui a tiré une balle dans la jambe parce qu ’ elle a refusé d ’ avoir une relation sexuelle avec des recrutements forcés au rwanda et en rdc impliquant même des jeunes selon hrw , les habitants de la région et des anciens rebelles ayant déserté ont fait état d ’ opérations récentes de recrutement forcé d ’ hommes et de garçons au rwanda et à l ’ est de la rdc pour le compte de m23 .
parmi les hommes recrutés au rwanda par le m23 , le rapport de hrw affirme que figurent de nombreux jeunes garçons majeurs mais aussi quelques mineurs .
il y des fdlr , dont la plupart avaient été intégrés dans la force de réserve de l ’ armée rwandaise , ainsi que des civils rwandais . & bdquo ; un jeune rwandais âgé de 15 ans a raconté à human rights watch que lui et trois autres jeunes hommes et garçons avaient reçu la promesse d ’ emplois en tant que gardiens de vaches en rd congo , mais qu ’ une fois arrivés dans ce pays , ils avaient été forcés de rejoindre le m23 .
ils y ont suivi une formation militaire dispensée par des officiers rwandais et on les a avertis qu ’ ils seraient abattus s ’ ils tentaient & bdquo ; de récents déserteurs du m23 interrogés par human rights watch ont décrit des arrivées fréquentes parfois hebdomadaires de militaires et de recrues en provenance du rwanda .
parfois il s ’ agissait de rotations , des hommes nouveaux en remplaçant d ’ autres qui étaient retournés au rwanda « poursuit le rapport .
hrw assure avoir documenté des dizaines de cas de recrutement de force par le m23 depuis mars , y compris d ’ enfants .
ces recrutements semblent même avoir augmenté au cours des derniers mois , depuis que le m23 a perdu plusieurs hommes ( morts et déserteurs ) , quand la faction du m23 dirigée par bosco ntaganda a subi une défaite en mars face à celle commandée par sultani makenga .
les cas de sept enfants rwandais , âgés de 15 , 16 et 17 ans , qui ont été recrutés de force au rwanda en mars et en avril , puis forcés de se battre dans les rangs du m23 , avant de parvenir à déserter ont également été recensés .
hrw affirme avoir reçu des informations concernant d ’ autres enfants recrutés au rwanda au cours de ces derniers mois et qui , eux , n ’ ont pas pu s ’ enfuir .
des recrutements forcés seraient également intenses en rdc , surtout dans les zones sous contrôle du m23 .
ainsi , & bdquo ; des commandants du m23 ont forcé des chefs coutumiers dans les zones qu ’ ils contrôlent à suivre une formation militaire et idéologique et à fournir des recrues au m23 .
le m23 considère ces chefs locaux comme constituant une & bdquo ; force de réserve « , sur laquelle ils veulent pouvoir néanmoins , tous les récents déserteurs du m23 interrogés par hrw ont déclaré qu ’ au cours des derniers mois , le gros de nouvelles recrues provient de plus en de nombreux bataillons de l ’ armes rwandaise se battent aujourd ’ hui aux côtés du m23 , et ce sont mêmes les officiers rwandais qui dirigent les opérations .
un ancien officier du m23 a indiqué à hrw que les femmes des officiers rwandais venaient souvent leur rendre visite dans les zones tenues par le m23 en rd congo , apportant des lettres de membres de leur famille restés au rwanda .
des habitants de la région et des rebelles déserteurs ont déclaré que & bdquo ; des mouvements réguliers du rwanda vers la rd congo d ’ hommes en uniforme de l ’ armée rwandaise et l ’ approvisionnement du m23 en munitions , en vivres et en autres par ailleurs , tous les déserteurs du m23 interrogés par hrw ont affirmé que la présence de militaires , d ’ officiers et de formateurs rwandais s ’ était poursuivie pendant toute la durée de leur engagement au sein du mouvement , et que de nouveaux renforts souvent déjà munis de divers équipements , notamment militaires continuaient d ’ arriver du rwanda au cours des derniers mois .
hrw mouvements d ’ hommes armés du rwanda vers l ’ est du congo pendant les jours ayant un déserteur congolais a rapporté à hrw , qu ’ au sein du m23 , les rwandais étaient favorisés . & bdquo ; on leur donne des uniformes immédiatement , des couvertures et des bottes .
ils sont gâtés .
quand ils parlent , c ’ est comme si ils étaient les patrons du mouvement .
ils me traitaient de vaut rien et disaient : & bdquo ; tu n ’ as aucune valeur dans ton pays « ils m ’ insultaient avec des mots qu ’ on ne peut prononcer trop fort .
ils disaient & bdquo ; vous les congolais , vous avez peut être fait des études mais vous n ’ avez jamais combattu au front . « « selon hrw , trois anciens officiers du m23 , proches de la hiérarchie du mouvement ont rapporté que les plus hauts commandants militaires du m23 supérieurs de l ’ armée rwandaise .
parfois , des officiers rwandais venaient à tshanzu ou à rumangabo pour rencontrer les chefs du m23 , parfois ce sont les dirigeants du m23 qui se rendaient au rwanda pour des réunions .
les informations circulant ces derniers jours nous apprennent même que plusieurs officiers rwandais auraient été tués d ’ autres blessés dans les combats de ces derniers jours , le général rwandais ibingira compterait parmi les blessés & bdquo ; au cours des 17 dernières années , l ’ armée rwandaise a à maintes reprises envoyé des troupes dans l ’ est de la rd congo et soutenu des forces agissant pour son compte et qui se sont rendues responsables d ’ exactions et de crimes de guerre « , a souligné daniel bekele directeur de la division afrique à hrw . & bdquo ; comme dans le passé , le rwanda nie qu ’ il soutient le m23 , mais les faits sur le terrain contredisent ces démentis . « poursuit-il .
par ailleurs , hrw affirme que , toutes les demandes d ’ entretien adressées à des responsables gouvernementaux et accusé depuis le début des hostilités à l ’ est du congo de ne pas avoir condamné ouvertement le rwanda , les états-unis ont adopté ce mardi le 23 juillet , un ton très sévère à l ’ encontre de kigali , le sommant de retirer ses troupes de la rdc et de cesser son soutien aux rebelles du m23 .
cet appel qui intervient au lendemain de la publication du rapport de hrw épinglant le rwanda pour son implication dans la crise congolaise à côté du m23 , est une première pour les etats-unis .
en effet washington s ’ était , jusque-là , contenté d ’ appeler tous les pays soutenant le m23 à cesser leur appui , sans mentionner les pays en question . & bdquo ; nous appelons le rwanda à cesser immédiatement tout soutien au mouvement du m23 , à retirer son personnel militaire de l ’ est de la rdc et à respecter ses engagements « , a déclaré ce mardi à la presse la porte-parole du département jennifer psaki a affirmé qu ’ il y avait un & bdquo ; ensemble de preuves crédibles « reliant les principaux dirigeants rwandais aux rebelles du m23 qui sèment le pour rappel , dans un rapport de l ’ onu le ministre rwandais de la défense , james kabarebe , est cité comme étant le véritable chef du m23 .
the struggle for economic freedom is now : mwalimu nyerere 's legacy na dr dalaly peter kafumu civilian in the latest in a string of incidents involving the army , a spokesman soldiers approached the entrance of the camp in ngagara , " in the capital bujumbura .
" one of them pounced on the sentinel , yanked his rifle away and shot a week ago and accused of attempting to destabilise the country 's institutions charlotte latvala is a seasoned freelancer who specializes in parenting , lifestyle , and humor .
she can be reached at clatvala @ aol.com.
welcome !
welcome to the web site for the diocese of duluth .
we hope you will visit often to stay abreast of the news and information for the catholic church in northeastern minnesota .
cnm adds pnm to name of technology lab thu oct 17 , 2013 11 : 20 am edt cdc back at work to track the flu fri oct 18 , 2013 03 : 20 am edt rainwater to be released from cochiti dam thu oct 17 , 2013 7 : 20 pm edt pit tiles get reinforced in time for lobo howl thu oct 17 , 2013 7 : 20 pm edt ’ walter white ’ to get funeral procession fri oct 18 , 2013 01 : 20 am edt man has $ 135,000 stolen from friend ’ s garage fri oct 18 , 2013 01 : 20 am edt nm guardsmen fear for future despite end of shutdown thu oct 17 , 2013 9 : 20 pm edt city offers new website for job seekers thu oct 17 , 2013 9 : 20 pm edt crews make repairs to tiles at the pit thu oct 17 , 2013 9 : 20 pm edt veterans set up the moving wall in rio rancho thu oct 17 , 2013 5 : 20 pm edt fallapalooza moves to carlsbad beach thu oct 17 , 2013 11 : 20 am edt carlsbad caverns , blm prepare to reopen thursday wed oct 16 , 2013 9 : 20 pm edt commission : no on new water study fri oct 18 , 2013 01 : 20 am edt gross receipts tax to increase wed oct 16 , 2013 11 : 20 pm edt holiday at the park tue oct 15 , 2013 11 : 20 am edt from the heart — woman donates baby blankets to la casa mon oct 14 , 2013 1 : 20 pm edt art board tours clubhouse thu oct 17 , 2013 3 : 20 pm edt gov talks about alzheimers plan thu oct 17 , 2013 3 : 20 pm edt new beginnings readies for restart thu oct 17 , 2013 3 : 20 pm edt toastmaster official to visit la thu oct 17 , 2013 3 : 20 pm edt he has made everything beautiful fri oct 18 , 2013 03 : 20 am edt transmission lines key to development thu oct 17 , 2013 01 : 20 am edt beefing up the herd thu oct 17 , 2013 01 : 20 am edt comments from the canyons : age isn ’ t something to fear tue oct 15 , 2013 5 : 20 pm edt to costly promotions .
we have no hidden costs .
all exporters ads are owned by to access markets .
this is one way that minimizes salesreps & costly source for our customers .
it is important you convey to readers your url or accounts at will .
we do have e-commerce but we feel will hold the bil bil of lading until complete monies are paid for shipping & or articles .
we assist and promote one of the best law offices in chiangmai : www.chiangmailaw.com so please if you have a problem contact sumalee jennapa llb & our general law office if you want to link to any of our sites all we ask in return is that you link guarantee if you do not get a minimum of 6 prospective customers we they occur .
when asking us for a quotation it is important to tell us your port of entry in your country and fill address details .
we will quote you up to date full prices and we do have r o r services to the uk but these must be booked prior .
payment is by tt to our company account .
we receive inquiries for various items to be made eg. plastic boxes , metal parts etc .
in these cases we pass this service on to other companies we know .
you can then decide whether to use them or not at your own dicretion .
please note we do not take responsibility for any dicrepancies you may have with these companies but can act as meditator in the event you do have a problem .
we always send out a proforma invoice which will tell you all the shipping and transactions costs .
these invoices if air freight we do reserve the right to add the costs of changed air freight per kg rates as and when they change .
as some of our exports may take 1-2 months to make and pack please note this change .
publishing / export-trade businesses and we can furnish references of exporters and reputable shipping qu : shipping & packing services : we have our own shipping now .
our depot for packing and fumigation is in soi 62 sukhumvit .
all quotes are workdwide for lcl to containers .
we also clear customs for impoters and handle all logistics around thailand .
for all garment exports our packing is at pratunam only for garments .
our turn arounds are quick and we can airfreight within 2 days of your goods coming to our depot .
we handle everything from cars , bike to cothing and personal and we also can get customs clearance on anything including buddhas and art works .
qu : shipping from pattaya or hua hin : we have our own trucks and have our own depot in pattaya as at august 2008 .
please click on the banner : first hotel on petchaburi rd bewteen soi 11 and soi 13 http : / / www.firsthotelbangkok.com / @ 1500 baht -2000baht a night .
we work for xtremestreet wear in brisbane australia & are buyers for this australian company .
see the success they have made on the australian garment market and check one of their many vans below [ xtremestreetwear ] these are our biggest garment customers and we can be your agent as well .
it costs you nothing but we qc and run everything for you in thailand without you being here .
we can offer you more than you think with all our in house services. website may be copied , printed or circulated for publication in any form or part of without business , newsletters are not be published , reproduced & used in any shape or form , in any publication belongs to the respective company / business we market for and we are not responsible for misleading information given to us by these one scientist has likened the work to ' trying to record the new york philharmonic from the other side of a concrete wall , while a guy is using a jackhammer on the wall and someone is playing with the volume control . '
cold air tends to be clear and free of moisture , which can distort light. opposite grace hotel , has a band plays at 11pm ? ? ? miles late and the drinks are too expensive .
200 baht for a bacardi breeze ( 53baht in the 7 / 11 ) ; 100 baht for a diet coke and 75n baht for a can of coke .
totally outrageous for a pub but then many bars and pubs are charging outrageous prices for entertainment and thats what bangkok is all about ? ?
not recommended by us apart from pool and the band & a few girls to chat too .
theres definitely better places to go and see but the choice is yours .
they do have pizzas and donar kababs and good value ..
[ pattaya useful tel numbers ] [ pattaya digital film ] [ pattaya buffet dinners ] [ pattaya tesco , big c ] [ pattaya beach ] [ pattaya tourist handy tips ] [ pattaya beach road ] [ pattaya best restaurants ] [ pattaya bars ] [ pattaya jet ski hire ] [ pattaya hire cars / bikes ] [ pattaya car / motorcycle reg office ] [ buying cars in thailand ] [ buying motorcycles in thailand ] [ pattaya bike week 2009 ] [ bang saen bike week 2008 ] [ fishing news ] [ check out bang saen ] [ more bang saen pics ] all the info you need to know about coming to the phillipines samoa 's world cup campaign has hit another major snag after skipper roy asotasi failed to turn up for the squad 's flight to the uk and management are unaware of his whereabouts . ( 10 / 16 / 2013 1 : 30 : 46 am ) he was born in new zealand , played for the australian schoolboys and has represented samoa . ( 10 / 16 / 2013 12 : 54 : 30 am ) flying to sfo or oakland this morning ?
don 't expect to use bart gpp y psuv llaman a ubch a activarse en el simulacro electoral de este domingo el gran polo patriótico ( gpp ) y el partido socialista unido de venezuela convocó este viernes a las unidades de batalla hugo chávez ( ubch ) a participar en el simulacro electoral de este domingo próximo , que se realiza para permitir a los ciudadanos familiarizarse con el sistema del voto de cara a los comicios municipales del 8 de diciembre .
vicente battista : en la literatura policial argentina los detectives no abundan estiman que buque virgen del valle traslade a unas 45.000 personas en temporada decembrina " alcoholic drinks in brazil " now available at fast market research commentary : gangs are the new law in urban trinidad and tobago © 2013 indexmundi - all rights reservedredacția | cadran politic editată de centrul român pentru educaţie şi dezvoltare durabilă , bucureşti .
reproducerea integrală sau parţială a materialelor este permisă numai cu citarea sursei . © 2010 cadran politic · rss · designed by theme junkie · powered by wordpress see the faqs for more info and help , or contact us .
the hydroelectric potential of the luapula river promises to meet the power needs of mining companies in katanga and the copperbelt . ( ... )
the job won ’ t be unfamiliar tokishore kumar , chief executive officer of konkola ( ... )
the patience of vivek heblikar , general manager of nigeria ’ s dangote industries , ( ... )
on top of that , the students had to clear any outstanding debts owed to the school as well as other compulsory matters .
jackson , the school ’ s headmaster , is pleased to inform all stakeholders that discipline and tranquility was already ’ normalizing ’ and it is now a safe environment .
he has also expressed gratitude to arusha district commissioners and other government authorities for their part in restoring peace and discipline to the school. to assess the value for money for uk aid of funding through multilateral aid programme in fewer countries so we can target our support where it at the february 2008 montreux retreat and to the iasc working group in in tajikistan as well as contributing to the organization 's effectiveness agency of the government and donors .
undp has contributed to policy development and dialogue , and played a key role in incorporating the mdgs and pro-poor and earthquakes , and hundreds of avalanches and debris flows .
in july 1999 , the questions we should be asking ourselves is why this sudden about-turn among the people who are known to be law abiding and hate the slightest commotion from their unruly colleagues ?
could it be that people are tired of peace ?
or is it that they feel that justice takes too long to arrive or may not arrive at all , if they follow the set and tested procedures ?
of course not all has been smooth for tanzania in the rendering of assistance to the refugees .
the negative upshot of that hospitality has been a proliferation of arms brought into the country by rebels and refugees .
that is why it is imperative for the government to make a thorough review of the situation , even as it seeks out illegal immigrants .
5 .
you are not allowed to amend the existed article to create a new one or to use the same for any purpose other than for personal non-commercial use .
subscribers to the pictures service are not allowed to re-send the pictures to any third party to be used for other purposes , whether commercial or other .
11 .
you agree to compensate kuna for any loss that it may encounter as a result of using this website by you .
all the info you need to know about coming to the phillipines as at 2009 april of privacy and our company will act accordingly .
see faqs five reasons to join us tomorrow for the global frackdown | mark ruffalo 3 .
the oil and gas industry will be paying attention .
thank you mark and wenonah , for doing all you can to bring people together as you inform us .
minnpost reports bachmann criticized the president for taking an " immediate victory lap . "
jo _ chitlik : perhaps senator bachmann is right … the reopening of the government was yes michele , when you throw a $ 24 billion temper tantrum for absolutely nothing , it is a sad day .
wonder if she would 've been so enthused if she wasn 't getting her check ! !
" the huffington post " is a registered trademark of thehuffingtonpost.com , inc .
all rights reserved . jump to content thomas sankara and the assassination of africa ’ s memory by chika ezeanya click on an area to find out where you can pick up a copy of year of the quilt thu oct 17 , 2013 11 : 26 am edt pushy salesmen making rounds here thu oct 17 , 2013 11 : 26 am edt englewood vandal id ’ d thu oct 17 , 2013 11 : 26 am edt joe frugal : shave & save on madden nfl 25 on amazon fri oct 18 , 2013 05 : 26 am edt rossville home gutted by fire thu oct 17 , 2013 7 : 26 pm edt first in the family fri oct 18 , 2013 01 : 26 am edt tennessee supreme court upholds voter id act thu oct 17 , 2013 11 : 26 pm edt utc shows off new tv studio thu oct 17 , 2013 11 : 26 pm edt chattanoogans have issues signing up for obamacare thu oct 17 , 2013 7 : 26 pm edt a look at union decline thu oct 17 , 2013 5 : 26 pm edt cemc , tva help scfr thu oct 17 , 2013 7 : 26 pm edt an attitude of gratitude ...
thu oct 17 , 2013 7 : 26 pm edt editorial : can there be a permanent solution ?
thu oct 17 , 2013 5 : 26 pm edt haunted trail scares up funds thu oct 17 , 2013 5 : 26 pm edt landfill topic on agenda thu oct 17 , 2013 9 : 26 pm edt mt .
pleasant bastes scarecrows with bbq fest thu oct 17 , 2013 9 : 26 pm edt fitness tip : bent-over barbell row thu oct 17 , 2013 09 : 26 am edt newbern to hold another called meeting on gps units thu oct 17 , 2013 09 : 26 am edt open for business !
thu oct 17 , 2013 11 : 26 am edt gpd lt. pat hankins to run for sheriff thu oct 17 , 2013 11 : 26 am edt the end of the government shutdown : how your tennessee congressmen voted thu oct 17 , 2013 7 : 26 pm edt knoxville , blount co. discuss ways to end homelessness thu sep 5 , 2013 01 : 26 am edt ut restricts fundraising on game days thu sep 5 , 2013 01 : 26 am edt harriman wants law requiring prescriptions for pseudoephedrine medicines thu oct 17 , 2013 7 : 26 pm edt maryville couple dead in murder-suicide tue oct 15 , 2013 5 : 26 pm edt alexander introduces bill to reimburse state for reopening the smokies tue oct 15 , 2013 1 : 26 pm edt winners of cfo of the year awards announced thursday thu oct 17 , 2013 5 : 27 pm edt high revenues and low expenses fatten airports financials thu oct 17 , 2013 3 : 26 pm edt land between the lakes set to reopen fri oct 18 , 2013 05 : 26 am edt job fair is tuesday in southaven sat oct 5 , 2013 5 : 26 pm edt new orleans man identified as driver in crash fri oct 4 , 2013 11 : 26 pm edt eight robberies near overton park thu oct 17 , 2013 9 : 26 pm edt preds fall to kings in shootout fri oct 18 , 2013 05 : 26 am edt want to be taken seriously ?
dress the part thu oct 17 , 2013 3 : 26 pm edt tn supreme court upholds voter id law , says it 's not an undue burden fri oct 18 , 2013 03 : 26 am edt court won ’ t hear mnps resegregation case tue oct 15 , 2013 5 : 26 pm edt bounty hunter defends how fugitive was apprehended fri oct 18 , 2013 01 : 26 am edt cowan police officer perseveres after losing arm in accident thu oct 17 , 2013 9 : 26 pm edt kopitar scores in shootout , kings win 2-1 fri oct 18 , 2013 01 : 26 am edt signal , sidewalks proposed for nolensville rd . fri oct 18 , 2013 01 : 26 am edt traffic signal , sidewalks proposed for nolensville rd . thu oct 17 , 2013 11 : 26 pm edt mnps discusses how to close $ 23 million shortfall thu oct 17 , 2013 11 : 26 pm edt .detailsocial .socialbutton.download .downloadbutton why did the gop miscalculate so badly in the shutdown battle ? | robert creamer a misalignment between the self-interests of decision makers , and the group for which the decisions are being made .
worse , for the gop , the shutdown has jeopardized the party 's control of the house , and its hopes of retaking the senate in next year 's elections .
4 ) .
there was a complete disjuncture between the self-interests of the people driving gop decision-making and the interest of the party as a whole .
to put it in a nutshell : the tea party led the gop down a blind alley and it got mugged -- by the american people .
but if the gop is to maintain its hold of congress -- or win the presidency -- in the face of major demographic shifts ( growing numbers of latinos , asian americans , single women voters and millennials ) it has to appeal to the majority of americans -- it has to appeal to swing voters and independents .
the interests of tea party activists and the gop as a whole simply do not coincide .
speaker john boehner needed to pander to the tea party to maintain his speakership -- at least in the short run . but that allowed the party to veer off into the netherworld of right wing fantasy and led to a horrible defeat .
listen to your mother : stand up straight : how progressives can win i dunno , but it appears the gop has a new " why did the gop miscalculate so badly in the shutdown battle ? "
why did the gop ' miscalculate ' ?
my answer is shorter and more direct : the result of this battle is that the sequester was extended , with austerity becoming the new normal , which is being characterized as a decisive win for the left .
why does everybody ignore the importance of the manifesto uttered by a " presidential aide " and reported by ron suskind in 2004 ?
to me it explains much of what has occurred since .
columnist for the observer , as well as an award-winning journalist and broadcaster the dna of a banana is similar to a rural conservative ' lib dems turn on former ministergettymore politicslib dem says tories tried to get him to defect ..
harry reid not planning to make a ' stupid trade ' why do brits ' get nervous ' about celebrating st george 's day ? pa malala sad to miss lessons , as she visits buckingham palacepa lookbritish actors carry on fine tradition of hitting the sauce in nyctwitterwho would you like to drink with ?
mark kermode on the opinions he will not listen topamore entertainmentsaturdays singer welcomes her baby ..
helen bares all ..
whose feet is keith licking ?
tw * ts on tinder tumblrtinderan ( unfair ) compilation of men from the online dating app angola tax to lift oil exploration costs , producers can recoup [ deutsche welle ] angola has broken off its " strategic partnership " with portugal .
this has rattled lisbon , which is now trying to salvage a promising export market that had gained in signifcance during the eurozone crisis . ( 10 / 17 / 2013 10 : 37 : 08 am ) indian ministry > upcoming datesyear of the canonization of st. kateri special celebrations : - in the indian culture 's spirit of " welcoming " everyone is welcome to all events . - he spent most of his seven-day stay drinking , partying and smoking cigars on kim ’ s private island .
rodman described kim ’ s 200ft yacht as a “ cross between a ferry and a disney boat ” .
“ if you drink a bottle of tequila it ’ s the best tequila .
everything you want , he has the best . ”
rodman is in denial he makes the comment that kim jong has " 50 to 60 around him all the time — just normal people , drinking cocktails and laughing the whole time " - how many firing squads did dennis get to watch practice ?
dennis rodman considers kim jong as his friend and thinks he is a great guy .
it is apparent that rodman likes the way that the people in north korea live .
i think that kim jong should place rodman in one of his " seven star " secret prisons .
my guess is that kim is not going to be happy with rodman 's revelation of his lifestyle .
" the huffington post " is a registered trademark of thehuffingtonpost.com , inc .
all rights reserved.index was out of range .
must be non-negative and less than the size of the collection .
jane correia is recognized by continental who 's who as a pinnacle professional .
commentary : tourism matters : how much longer can we go on accepting failure ?
commentary : gop and the washington shutdown : will socialized medicine win ?
october 9 , 2013 over a spirited tinge of hate and dread , the right wing crusade to disrupt the affordable care act commonly known as ’ obamacare ’ drags on in washington .
the plot of ’ perception control ’ by demagogues and corporations are in full gear .
washington now languishes in a state of crisis in the battle for ...
two biker best buddies with a very special bond thu oct 17 , 2013 9 : 29 pm edt loudoun co .
home invasion suspect still on the run thu oct 17 , 2013 9 : 29 pm edt workers happy to return , but ’ nonessential ’ tag stings thu oct 17 , 2013 11 : 29 pm edt advertise with us — newschannel 8 fri apr 12 , 2013 5 : 29 pm edt about us and talent bios fri nov 9 , 2012 09 : 29 am est let ’ s talk live tue oct 30 , 2012 09 : 29 am edt the pet show tue oct 30 , 2012 09 : 29 am edt stormwatch 7 weather tue oct 30 , 2012 09 : 29 am edt tips and signs of bullying thu oct 17 , 2013 11 : 29 pm edt for us , shutdown embarrasses but damage won ’ t last thu oct 17 , 2013 5 : 29 pm edt the shutdown in a word thu oct 17 , 2013 7 : 29 pm edt incredible bionic man at air & space museum thu oct 17 , 2013 7 : 29 pm edt apinya thai food co .
serves up its hot sauces thu oct 17 , 2013 3 : 29 pm edt usa citizen in a foreign state .
it is accepted by all us government agencies as certificate ( it is a certification of the facts of birth as recorded in a proof of physical presence in the us after the age of 14 .
nassau , bahamas -- skybahamas airline had chalked up $ 126,000 in costs by monday from an ongoing & ldquo ; sickout & rdquo ; by the majority of its pilots who are allegedly demanding a new contract . & ldquo ; this is my team , and they are wonderful men for the best part i might say , but i think there ’ s an outside influence .
when you have a new pilot union headed by bahamasair pilots , you have to wonder ; their jobs are secure , so it doesn ’ t matter to them . & rdquo ; & ldquo ; when i met with one of the union presidents yesterday , he said , ’ it ’ s not industrial action , but we want you to start negotiating and sign off now on this contract . ’
are you telling me you ’ re going to cripple and put out of business this company ?
are you saying you are going to have 18 people put all of these people out ?
we have 126 employees .
they want us to put aside $ 400,000 for a health plan for 18 pilots , who already have a group plan .
it ’ s almost an exact replica of a bahamasair contract . & rdquo ; pattaya and we specialize in helping foreigners whether relocating or lcl loads chiangmai rates and companies .
this is overseen by our kiwi foreign manager and we can deliver door to door in bangkok or chiangmai , pattaya , hua hin and towns on as at 2013 all shipments for personal every customer must sign an indemnity form to cover our company regarding all personal shipments .
pallets we can supply and will not accept pallets from customers shipping lcl .
due to drugs etc and contraband we will no longer ship and pack goods and take responsibility if you do not sign the indemnity form .
works of art and antiquities and this includes buddhas even made of plastic and bought on the street they must be classified by the fine arts dept so be aware of this when asking us for a quotation and you wish to send personal items please tell us exactly what you are shipping .
itemize all articles so we can tell you if you need fumigation , clearance from customs and fine arts depts etc .
we will not quote you if you do not list all items you wish to ship we can help you as we ship many bikes .
shipping crates can range from 1500 baht to 3000baht per cbm .
have cheap then you may find your goods may be damaged as all shipments will be forklifted and stacked sometimes 3-4 times .
we can give you a rough estimate but you need to make sure you give the right dimensions and then allow us to see so we can tell you any changes of cbm you may need .
quotes are just indicative and can change now in 2008 due to the cost of fuel .
works of art and antiquities and this includes buddhas even made of plastic and bought on the street they must be classified by the fine arts dept so be aware of this as the price for customs can be anywhere up to 3000baht just for clearance even though you only paid 1000baht on the street and its not antique. you also need fumigation for all wood products and crates .
we mainly ship port to port and then send the receiver of the goods the bill of lading and shipping documents for one to clear customs .
its pretty easy to clear yourself and we tell those who come to us for shipping .
freight flowers , fish etc ] [ shipping world ports of entry ] [ internal transport ] [ shipping motorcycles ] [ shipping motorcycles fcl ] [ bikes to australia packing ] [ pratunam market garment hotels ] [ garment buying help ] [ go personal goods ] [ cert of origin ] [ sourcing goods for you ] [ uk clearing agent ] [ storage in bangkok ] [ pallets for sale bangkok ] [ shipping to usa ] [ importing cars ] [ containers for sale ] [ shipping terms & abrevs ] [ our yannawa bangkok storage & loading ] [ 40ft used containers for sale ] [ 40ft used flatracks ] [ unaccompanied baggage ] [ sending under 45kgs air freight ] [ thai chamber of commerce ] [ foreign chamber of commerce ] [ vat refund on shipping cargo ] [ faqs on airfreight cargo ] the utah professionals ’ directory sits on utah lawyers ’ desks and is used daily throughout the year .
just one advertisement in utah ’ s professionals ’ directory reaches utah ’ s legal community for one full year . the utah professionals ’ directory stays on lawyers ’ , judges ’ , paralegals ’ and court reporters ’ desks and is used all year .
grandchildren say the darnedest things mon oct 7 , 2013 1 : 16 pm edt hollandale in limbo sun sep 29 , 2013 11 : 16 am edt the little credit card on the prairie is a liar sat sep 28 , 2013 7 : 16 pm edt should there be a shield law for journalists ?
sat sep 28 , 2013 7 : 16 pm edt bagging a bear wed sep 25 , 2013 1 : 16 pm edt state reports record seatbelt use , but mower lags average thu oct 17 , 2013 1 : 16 pm edt mitten project makes big donation to united way thu oct 17 , 2013 1 : 16 pm edt mnsure signs up 3,700 so far for health insurance thu oct 17 , 2013 1 : 16 pm edt braddy resigns northland arboretum post thu oct 17 , 2013 11 : 16 pm edt police blotter for 10 / 18 thu oct 17 , 2013 9 : 16 pm edt new downtown duluth center extols all things nordic fri oct 18 , 2013 03 : 16 am edt leaner supervalu posts another profit thu oct 17 , 2013 5 : 16 pm edt ’ diverging diamond ’ interchange opens in st. cloud thu oct 17 , 2013 9 : 16 pm edt mpls .
police to wear body cameras ?
depends who you ask thu oct 17 , 2013 9 : 16 pm edt borowitz satire : obama declares national day of gloating thu oct 17 , 2013 1 : 16 pm edt it ’ s beginning to look a lot like 2011 for vikings fri oct 18 , 2013 01 : 16 am edt road woes continue for anemic wild thu oct 17 , 2013 11 : 16 pm edt good question : can a member of congress be recalled ?
fri oct 18 , 2013 01 : 16 am edt caravan of performers to stop in winona on friday wed oct 16 , 2013 11 : 16 am edt waps schools still adapting to ayp changes wed oct 16 , 2013 01 : 16 am edt © 2013 indexmundi - all rights reservedwhere jim rogers is investing now - barrons.com looking for top-rated stocks near a potential buy point ? see the " leaders list " onleaderboard marketsmith and special operations warrior foundationinvest in yourself and support the families of our nation 's heroes .
get the details on the can slim system by the man who developed it .
how to spot the true leaders as a new market uptrend begins ... and more !
how bill got started and his lessons learned along the way build your watch list during the market downturnsee the " leaders list " onleaderboard see our latest ibd 2-minute tip video for a quick look at : free ibd trialget access to ibd 's stock lists and tools : print | eibd free leaderboard trialshort on time ?
get ongoing alerts to potential winners from ibd experts .
home | about | search | site map | blog | discussburundi réalités le 7 mai 2013 , rsf a adressé une lettre ouverte au président pierre nkurunziza pour lui faire part de son inquiétude quant à la liberté de l ’ information au burundi et pour lui demander de ne pas promulguer la loi sur les médias adoptée par le parlement .
voici le texte de la lettre : au lendemain de la célébration de la journée mondiale de la liberté de la presse , reporters sans frontières vous demande solennellement de bien vouloir ne pas promulguer la loi sur les médias votée en avril par le parlement .
adopté au début du mois par l ’ assemblée nationale , puis le 19 avril par le sénat , ce texte fait grandement débat , d ’ autant plus qu ’ il intervient dans un climat difficile pour la presse burundaise , déjà marquée par la longue incarcération de hassan ruvakuki et plusieurs agressions graves de journalistes .
il ne faudrait pas interpréter , monsieur le président , les nombreuses protestations de la presse , des associations et des institutions internationales comme des réflexes de défiance à l ’ encontre de l ’ action gouvernementale en en restreignant les sujets accessibles aux journalistes et en augmentant lourdement les peines et amendes , le projet de loi limite considérablement la capacité d ’ investigation des médias et fait planer le risque d ’ une hausse de a deux ans des prochaines échéances électorales nationales , son adoption aurait donc des conséquences désastreuses pour le pluralisme , la transparence , c ’ est pourquoi , en cette période aussi grave que décisive , nous nous en en faisant barrage à l ’ entrée en vigueur de ce texte , vous apporteriez la preuve de votre attachement à la liberté de l ’ information .
si au contraire vous promulguiez cette loi , vous enverriez un signal terriblement négatif à vos notre organisation reste convaincue que vous saurez faire preuve de la hauteur de vue nécessaire pour laisser les médias jouer pleinement leur rôle , si je vous remercie par avance de l ’ attention que vous voulez bien accorder à notre requête et je vous prie d ’ agréer , monsieur le président , l ’ assurance de ma tax havens are countries and territories , mostly in the caribbean , that offer financial benefits to foreign investors .
the two main pillars of tax havens are a low ( or nonexistent ) tax rate and secrecy ; that is to say , information on the identity of the client and on his or her activities may not be disclosed to foreign authorities .
using tax havens ’ services is considered by non-tax haven countries , such as the united states , to be tax evasion .
the aim of potential us tax reform is to cut the loopholes that are allowing such tax avoidance .
the investigations led to the proposal in congress of the cut unjustified tax loopholes act , which was signed into law earlier this year .
in the first section of the bill , nine points are listed to curb the use of tax havens , most of which seek to target and penalize us firms that exploit loopholes such as the one explained above .
the first point stipulates : & ldquo ; penalize offshore financial institutions and jurisdictions that impede us tax enforcement & rdquo ; .
if washington is to truly enforce this provision , measures clearly must then be taken to curb the illegal activities in the united states ’ own territories .
after saying no to feds on medicaid expansion , florida may ask for more money shipping major ports in bangkok and thailand are laem chabang and klong toey ports specified by the ministry of commerce.importer will need to obtain an " import permit " from the catch the taxis into town on the 2nd floor .
you have to pay 50baht surcharge on top of the taxi fare meter at the end of the trip and make sure the driver has his meter on .. top the departure & vice versa if wanting a bus into bangkok.free shuttle if coming by bus to the bus terminal or if you wish to catch a bus into town to say the victory monument then use the shuttle bus .
there is a 7 / 11 and atms at the terminal and everything is well displayed in english for onward travel by bus .. of privacy and our company will act accordingly .
see faqscaribbean news now ! : contact us lawmakers eye treatment options for heroin abuse fri oct 18 , 2013 06 : 20 am edt red bank , asbury to take same sex marriage applications thu oct 17 , 2013 8 : 20 pm edt boardwalk subcontractors owed $ 86g fri oct 18 , 2013 06 : 20 am edt nj corrections officer admits posing as a cop for sex with prostitutes thu oct 17 , 2013 4 : 20 pm edt five men involved in sinha beating scheduled for sentencing thu oct 17 , 2013 10 : 20 am edt nj town approves meadowlands megamall finance deal thu oct 17 , 2013 10 : 20 am edt blackwood shop fixes veteran ’ s car for free fri oct 18 , 2013 04 : 20 am edt poll : are you still feeling the effects of superstorm sandy ?
fri oct 18 , 2013 06 : 20 am edt ny mets player returns to his roots thu oct 17 , 2013 8 : 20 pm edt a healthy visit for students at wardlaw-hartridge thu oct 17 , 2013 6 : 20 pm edt new jersey farmers embrace alpacas for fun , fleece thu oct 17 , 2013 6 : 20 pm edt star-ledger unions ratify new 4-year contracts , agree to buyouts thu oct 17 , 2013 6 : 20 pm edt shoulders closed on some roadways for construction wed oct 16 , 2013 08 : 20 am edt east rutherford tax assessor to size up american dream tue oct 15 , 2013 08 : 20 am edt cyprus to help syria ’ s weapons inspectors fri oct 18 , 2013 06 : 20 am edt is winning enough ?
booker ’ psyched ’ at margin , but gop gains confidence fri oct 18 , 2013 02 : 20 am edt time is running out for pair of eagles in ridgefield park thu oct 17 , 2013 4 : 20 pm edt new statue defaced in passaic thu oct 17 , 2013 2 : 20 pm edt for bonnie rubin fri oct 18 , 2013 02 : 20 am edt if its not broke , dont fix it fri oct 18 , 2013 02 : 20 am edt vote out the incumbents fri oct 18 , 2013 02 : 20 am edt for rinker , murphy and rubin fri oct 18 , 2013 02 : 20 am edt hope for a better tomorrow fri oct 18 , 2013 02 : 20 am edt ny police say teen girls had human remains in bag thu oct 17 , 2013 6 : 20 pm edt govt : employees aided madoff ’ s ’ elaborate fiction ’ thu oct 17 , 2013 08 : 20 am edt banksy : i sold original artwork for $ 60 in nyc mon oct 14 , 2013 2 : 20 pm edt new research lab brings 60 jobs to montvale open research lab in montvale fri oct 18 , 2013 04 : 20 am edt hackensack seeks to toughen sexual harassment policy in wake of lawsuit settlement toughen on sexual harassers fri oct 18 , 2013 04 : 20 am edt restaurant review : pier 115 bar and grill in edgewater fri oct 18 , 2013 04 : 20 am edt parsippany cops : thieves snatch laptop from sizzle tans thu oct 17 , 2013 4 : 20 pm edt mine hill woman : i stole $ 228,631 to ’ help my family ’ thu oct 17 , 2013 12 : 20 pm edt mendham man injured in chester twp. car crash wed oct 16 , 2013 6 : 20 pm edt cvc powers end in tie fri oct 18 , 2013 12 : 20 am edt hamilton holds off steinert on final play thu oct 17 , 2013 10 : 20 pm edt big blue sticking with eli thu oct 17 , 2013 10 : 20 pm edt cromartie grades himself a c ’ thu oct 17 , 2013 10 : 20 pm edt government shutdown a worry for hopeful homebuyers sun oct 13 , 2013 8 : 20 pm edt food for thought : let them eat thu oct 3 , 2013 12 : 20 am edt re-enactors bring a touch of the civil war to burlington mansion sat sep 28 , 2013 8 : 20 pm edt the road to forgiveness thu sep 26 , 2013 12 : 20 am edt pe 6 martie 2013 a avut loc la varșovia o întânire între liderii uniunii europene & # 8211 ; angela merkel și françois hollande & # 8211 ; și premierii statelor membre a grupului de la vișegrad & # 8211 ; polonia , cehia , slovacia și ungaria .
tema discuției a fost o integrare mai strânsă a uniunii europene .
participarea în premieră a cancelarului german și a președintelui francez la discuțiile ...
ideea confiscării banilor cetățenilor ciprioți de către ue și fmi pune capăt oricăror iluzii mai rămăseseră că uniunea europeană este un proiect construit pe baze democratice , cu respect pentru cetățeni .
dictatul din vară impus româniei putea avea scuza prostiei usl și a acțiunilor pripite a acestora , deși instituțiile europene și americane închiseseră ochii la abuzurile similare ...
una dintre cele mai mari presiuni la adresa statului este pentru a crea locuri de muncă .
problema este că nu are prea multe pârghii pentru a face asta .
între alegeri locale , referendum și alegerile parlamentare , declarația guvernatorului bnr privind renunțarea la adoptarea monedei euro în 2015 nu a atras atenția suficient nici în mediul economic , nici în cel politic , nici măcar în rândul analiștilor financiari .
era un deznodământ așteptat ? 1 ) românia este o ţară cu o populaţie săracă şi preponderent prost instruită .
2 ) forţa de muncă este slab spre mediu calificată , cu rare vârfuri .
în programul de guvernare al cabinetului ponta sunt prevăzute reanalizarea codului muncii şi a legii salarizării unice pentru salariaţii bugetari , precum şi a acordului tripartit privind evoluţia salariului minim brut pentru 2012-2016 , dar şi modificarea legii dialogului social .
criză economică mondială , pornită & # 8211 ; după cum bine se știe & # 8211 ; încă din 2007 ( criza subprime ) , dar conștientizată la nivel global abia un an mai târziu , în septembrie 2008 , când a avut loc spectaculoasa prăbușire a lehman brothers și multor altor nume mari din industria financiară le-a trecut glonțul pe la ureche .
deși sistemul bancar global nu a avut schimbări semnificative , ...
europa prin uniunea europeană în general , în special prin zona euro , este zona cea mai expusă la criza economică .
discuțiile sunt în toi de mult , dar ritmul s-a accelerat după ultimele peripeții ale greciei .
stabilitatea zonei euro este pusă în discuție tot mai des , mai ales pe fondul acutizării războiului informațional , punctul culminant fiind zvonul privind un posibil împrumut de ...
drumul certificatelor de emisii co2 : de la extaz la agonie recenta suspendare a dreptului româniei de a tranzacționa certificate de emisii de carbon a creat dezbateri & # 8211 ; aprinse pe alocuri & # 8211 ; pe această temă .
în timp ce unii au spus că se vorbește prea mult în necunoștință de cauză , alții au pretins contrariul .
valoarea pierderilor suferite de românia este estimată de la câteva sute de milioane la 3 miliarde euro .
care este situația ...
propaganda guvernamentală a făcut din 31 martie “ ziua ieşirii din criză ” , al doilea trimestru consecutiv de creştere economică .
practic , ziua ieşirii din criză a fost 1 octombrie .
în ciuda glumelor făcute , este nevoie de astfel de semnale .
orice “ criză ” este întâi de toate o problemă psihologică .
pentru a ieşi din ea ai nevoie mai întâi de un “ reset ” mental şi a o lua ... © 2013 cadran politic · rss · designed by theme junkie · powered by wordpressbrookings register t-boned by a beer truck altostratus clouds are blue-gray or whitish in color .
they are thinner and higher than stratus clouds and are formed by water and ice particles .
after years of haggling over the sudden cancellation of a contract between togo and the compagnie energie electrique du togo ( ceet ) on one side and gdf-suez and its affiliate elyo ( ... )
undaunted by his failure to win control of the mineral terminal in the port of abidjan operated by belgium ’ s sea invest ( ami ) , frank timis has begun talks with the authorities in togo ( ... )
to meet an expected surge in demand from 184 mw in 2012 to 487 mw in 2003 , the government is trying to woo investors .
but the country ’ s shaky financial situation is scaring them away . ( ... )
the international arm of socar , the national oil company in azerbaijan , has lent cash to britain ’ s gasoil to finance its gas projects . ( ... )
the togolese government which received the financial and technical offers of three bidders for the country ’ s carbonated ( ... )
the latest government reshuffle on sept .
17 saw dammipi noupokou regain his portfolio ( ... )
exxonmobil has bought them from the homeowners and has already torn one of them down .
exxon says the manufacturer of the pegasus pipeline is to blame for the spill .
as exxon and local crews continue their cleanup efforts in the neighborhoods impacted by last month 's oil spill , homeowners are beginning the process of figuring out what 's next .
les pays africains commercent très peu entre eux en comparaison aux pays asiatiques ou encore européens .
ce qui empêche l ’ accroissement de la compétitivité du continent sur le marché international , selon la banque ( de notre envoyée spéciale au sommet de la bad à marrakech ) les pays africains n ’ échangent pas suffisamment entre eux .
un constat fait par les experts de la banque africaine de développement ( bad ) , qui se sont exprimés sur la question lors d ’ une conférence à l ’ occasion des assemblées annuelles de l ’ organisation , à marrakech .
le commerce inter-africain n ’ est que de 15 & percnt sur tout le continent .
ce qui constitue un taux très faible comparé aux autres pays du monde .
pourquoi est ce que les pays du continent commercent si les raisons sont multiples , selon les experts de la bad .
les pays africains sont confrontés au manque de capitaux , d ’ infrastructures et à la mauvaise gouvernance .
sans compter les taxes douanières qui coûtent très chers .
tous ces problèmes de logistiques empêchent le commerce inter-africain de se développer . & bdquo ; le manque de compétence des ressources humaines est aussi un sérieux frein à la fluidité des échanges alors qu ’ une entreprise a besoin d ’ une main d ’ oeuvre qualifiée « , selon le dr. abbi mamo kedir , consultant en économie au sein de l ’ organisation school of management university of lelcester en international .
pourtant des politiques de soutien existent dans le continent pour les promouvoir , selon les experts de la bad .
mais elles ne sont pas concrétisées .
quelles solutions face à ce constat alarmant ?
d ’ après eux , il faut commencer par réformer les politiques d ’ investissements pour promouvoir les le maroc , qui est devenu un carrefour d ’ investissement dans la région en quelques années , a fourni des efforts allant en ce sens , selon youssef rouissi , directeur général adjoint de la banque attijariwafa .
d ’ après lui , son pays s ’ intéresse de près au & bdquo ; marché africain .
nous disposons de cinq banques dans plusieurs pays d ’ afrique .
de plus , les millions de consommateurs africains nous ont fait comprendre qu ’ on pouvait récupérer le marché de distribution de toutefois , même si le maroc effectue des investissements dans les pays du continent , 60 & percnt de son économie dépend encore de l ’ europe , notamment de la france raison de plus pour laquelle , l ’ afrique doit impérativement s ’ unir si elle veut améliorer sa compétitivité sur le marché mondial , estime pour sa part le ministre ougandais de la justice , kahinda otafiire .
selon lui , & bdquo ; jusqu ’ à présent , l ’ afrique a toujours exporté des matières premières .
il faut qu ’ elle diversifie son marché , qu ’ elle construise par exemples ses propres voitures .
« le ministre va même plus loin : & bdquo ; l ’ afrique du sud qui a connu un essor économique très important ces dernières années peut atteindre un meilleur niveau de développement .
mais malheureusement elle ne s ’ est pas suffisamment imposée sur le marché africain alors qu ’ elle a le potentiel pour le faire « .
preuve , selon lui , & bdquo ; qu ’ on ne pourra pas parler de croissance en afrique tant qu ’ on aura seulement , l ’ intégration régionale est loin d ’ être aisée à mettre en place .
des organisations telles que la communauté économiques des etats de l ’ afrique de l ’ ouest ( cedeao ) ou la communauté économique des etats d ’ afrique centrale ( ceeac ) existent .
mais plusieurs dissensions entravent à leur bon fonctionnement .
il y a aussi la barrière de la langue et de la culture entre les pays de la zone francophone et anglophone qui ne facilitent pas le développement de “ most state agency directors are liars when they ’ re sitting in front of the committee and talking about the budget , ” hutchings said at the news conference .
but with becker , hutchings said , “ it wasn ’ t just , ‘ give us the money and don ’ t ever talk to us again . ’ ”
four-year-old orion qurbonaliev is lucky to be alive .
just last february , the little boy was lying comatose in the tuberculosis ward of a hospital in southern tajikistan .
the bacteria had spread to his spine and paralyzed the right side of his body .
he was severely dehydrated and malnourished .
[ read george soros crises report ] [ thailand in crises ] [ us economy worsens ] [ asia crises better than us ] [ depression safeguards ] [ depression could come ] [ thailand finance news ] [ amex bailout wrong ] [ aig abuse bailout funds ] [ gm & bankruptcy better ] [ pension funds ] [ hedge funds 2008 ] [ investing fund guidelines ] why you [ do not invest in finance companies ] [ buy gold not shares in finance companies ] [ thai property speculation & sub prime crises ] [ investment property guide ] [ borrowing money ] [ using thai company to hold property ] [ best option for foreigners buying ] what are the main forms or shapes of the aurora ? · assistance from azerbaijan makes up the bulk of the region ’ s outgoing aid in 2012 tajikistan “ facts for life : nutrition and growth ” is now available in the tajik language to improve feeding practices of young children many on our books at present .
pattaya has many superstores and supermarkets to choose from .
theres plenty of atms & you can access money anywhere via a meal .
also thai / european food served but has the best deli meats and cheeses & kiwi lamb chops , roasts , kiwi mixed frozen veges etc in pattaya .
the steaks are the best in pattaya and cheap --- where else in thailand can you buy fillet steaks for 50 baht each ? ? ? ?
veges are dearer than the markets but they have to pay rent and bills so its understandable. theres 2 tescos in pattaya and these superstores have everything .
one is on the way to the bkk / pattaya bus station on pattaya nua ( middle ) and the other on the sukhumvit highway going north .
they sell everything from food to appliances like the rest .
ideal for bulk buying .
remember too they have shops from burger king to big macs as well on central pattaya roads and 2nd road have food bars you pick the food then help yourself and eat there or take away .
not very nice decour inside but was one of the first supermarkets in pattaya and is ok and convenient .
the infamous pattaya north soi 6 a must when you come to pattaya as this is the soi where all the girls / kratoys hang out and the most colourful place in pattaya .
near the end is " jack & tars " the beer bar / food looking towards pattaya beach road .
if you have a restaurant in pattaya and want a review just email us and we advertise your restaurant or buffet on our website for free .
just check out the above restaurant review and we will do the same for you .
conditions apply more [ pattaya restaurants : 1 ] [ pattaya restaurants : 2 ] [ pattaya buffet dinners ] [ pattaya english breakfast & review ] [ pattaya top seafood review ] [ pattaya foodland prices ] [ pattaya useful tel numbers ] [ pattaya digital film ] [ pattaya buses from suvarnabhumbi airport ] [ pattaya bus times suvarnabhumbi airport ] [ pattaya english breakfasts ] [ pattaya best food ] [ pattaya tesco , big c ] [ pattaya beach ] [ pattaya tourist handy tips ] [ pattaya beach road ] [ pattaya best restaurants ] [ pattaya tesco , big c ] [ pattaya beach ] [ pattaya tourist handy tips ] [ pattaya beach road ] [ pattaya best restaurants ] [ pattaya bars ] [ pattaya jet ski hire ] [ pattaya hire cars / bikes ] [ pattaya driving license ] [ pattaya car hire ] [ pattaya motorcycle hire ] [ pattaya pickups & loads ] [ pattaya car / motorcycle reg office ] [ pattaya police & foreign volunteers ] [ pattaya scams ] [ pattaya property scams ] [ buying cars in thailand ] [ buying motorcycles in thailand ] [ pattaya bike week 2009 ] [ bang saen bike week 2008 ] [ fishing news ] [ check out bang saen ] [ more bang saen pics ] [ suvarnabhumi all the info you need to know about travel to the phillipines as at 2009 april & compare to pattaya [ thailand finance news ] [ pension funds ] [ depression looms 2008 ] [ hedge funds 2008 ] [ investing fund guidelines ] why you [ do not invest in finance companies ] [ buy gold not shares or invest in finance companies ] by clicking on the name of the option you will receive the current quote for the underlying instrument , not the option .
anyone with common horse sense knows pryor is obamas boy and does not deserve to be reelected .
go cotton all the way .
lhrc tells govt : prioritise id data collection in border areas na malela kassim the purpose of this office is to ensure the smooth and effective operation of the pastoral center officesinservice to the priests , deacons and laity of the diocese .
dar municipalities urged to earmark plots for new markets na prosper makene seiya revealed that kmc plans to establish those markets at buyuni area , pugu in ilala minicipal , mbweni in kinondoni municipal and tuangoma , kigamboni in temeke municipal council . & ldquo ; we are doing this so as to help the huge population on the outskirts of dar es salaam to get market services nearest to their areas of domicile to ease the long distances they cover to reach kariakoo main market , & rdquo ; he said .
he cited some of the challenges kmc is facing as lack of enough funds to manage operations on its own , stressing , & rdquo ; the main reason for establishment of kmc was to provide services to the business community at kariakoo market .
however , he insisted that the only solution to their financial problem is to increase the rent , but regretted that kmc was not in the position to do so because the law does not allow it .
batterybrakesbrakes / inspectionbrakes / warning signschanging the oilengine diagnosisfilters and spark plugshoses and beltsrotating tiressteeringtools neededtransmissionstune-upswindshield wiperswinterization world les victimes de la traite : « des êtres humains dont les droits de l ’ homme doivent être protégés » la journée européenne contre la traite des êtres humains , vendredi 18 octobre 2013 geneve ( 18 octobre 2013 ) – trois mécanismes anti-traite majeurs ont appelé ce jour à une action concertée et globale pour lutter contre le fléau transnational de la lutte contre la traite des êtres humains .
eu aid in € 36billion funding gap ahead of 2015 un targets european aid to poor countries is stalling , with aid cut or stagnant in 19 eu countries .
world signature d ’ un partenariat fao-fédération internationale de la croix-rouge et du croissant-rouge les organisations conviennent d ’ un plan d ’ action triennal pour améliorer la sécurité alimentaire et la résilience des communautés vulnérables 16 octobre 2013 , rome - la fao a signé un nouvel accord de collaboration avec la fédération internationale des sociétés de la croix-rouge et du croissant-rouge ( ficr ) , le plus grand réseau humanitaire du monde , afin d 'améliorer la sécurité alimentaire et renforcer la résilience des communautés vulnérables .
world des progrès dans la lutte contre la faim dans le monde londres , 17 octobre 2013 ( irin ) - depuis huit ans , l 'indice de la faim dans le monde ( global hunger index , ghi ) cartographie chaque année l 'état de la situation alimentaire .
les cartes montrent que la situation s 'est améliorée au fil du temps .
les taches rouge foncé qui couvraient auparavant une bonne partie de l 'afrique et indiquaient des niveaux de faim « extrêmement alarmants » sont , pour la plupart , devenues orange , et la majeure partie des zones orange sont passées au jaune , indiquant une situation « grave » , mais pas « alarmante » .
world rapport sur les catastrophes dans le monde – résumé l ’ édition 2013 du rapport sur les catastrophes dans le monde s ’ intéresse aux technologies et à l ’ avenir de l ’ intervention humanitaire .
rédigé par une quarantaine d ’ humanitaires et d ’ universitaires , le rapport souligne que ce sont les populations locales qui sauvent le plus de vies pendant les premières heures , décisives , qui suivent le déclenchement d ’ une crise .
pourtant , nombre de ces « premiers intervenants » n ’ ont pas accès à des informations et des outils de base vitaux , tels que les systèmes d ’ alerte précoce , une connectivité de base et une infrastructure de réseau .
world informe mundial sobre desastres - tecnologi ́ as y futuro de la accio ́ n humanitaria el informe mundial sobre desastres de este año hace hincapié en la tecnología y el futuro de la acción humanitaria .
redactado por más de 40 académicos y especialistas de la labor humanitaria , el informe destaca que , durante las primeras horas críticas después de una emergencia , la población local es la que , de hecho , logra salvar más vidas .
sin embargo , muchos de estos primeros agentes de intervención no tienen acceso ni a la información ni a las herramientas básicas que salvan vidas , como los sistemas de alerta temprana o la infraestructura básica de redes y conectividad .
map and charts : marriages where one spouse is u.s. born and one is foreign-born office of social apostolateplease click here for information on jrlc day on the hill , to be heldfebruary 17 , 2011at rivercenter in st. paul .
guardia civil are investigating the death of a moroccan man in algarrobo who was hiding 60 hashish pellets in his body .
the victim , aged 34 , was found dead by a fellow countryman he had rented a house from .
an emergency services doctor certified the man ’ s death .
a post mortem examination & # 8230 ; festivitites coming up in the axarquia include the ‘ feria ’ in nerja , the mule fair in arenas and the monfi festival in cutar .
the nerja ‘ feria ’ started on wednesday and will last until sunday .
events include concerts , dance exhibitions and a float parade on saturday .
sunday is children ’ s day and most & # 8230 ; 2個方便的地點 皇后區診所位於法拉盛中心 距離7號地鐵終站 步行約三分鐘 曼哈頓診所 位於小義大利區 交通方便 . 有地鐵和許多公車抵達.2個方便的地點 皇后區診所位於法拉盛中心 距離7號地鐵終站 步行約三分鐘 曼哈頓診所 位於小義大利區 交通方便 . 有地 ... 牙醫博士吳首學主治 二十五年臨床經驗 ， 國立陽明醫學院牙醫學士 ， 紐約大學牙醫博士 ， 前榮總牙科部醫師 診療項目 ： 急性牙痛 ， 根管治療 ， 牙床膿包 牙周手術 ， 各式假牙 ， 智齒拔除 兒童牙科 ， 學前檢查 ， 美容牙科 預約電話 ： 212-683-8883 傳真 : 212- ...
items that once belonged to pop icon michael jackson are to go on display in the equatorian guinean capital in a pr operation by " teodorin " obiang . ( ... )
the american oil company vaalco has named a new managing director with an untypical ( ... ) © 2013 indexmundi - all rights reservedgiftware suppliers in thailand andré bourgeot : & bdquo ; l 'opération serval risque de se transformer en guérilla « andré bourgeot , anthropologue , directeur de recherche émérite au cnrs et le président françois hollande est arrivé le 2 février à sévaré pour une visite éclair au mali au cours de laquelle il appellera les pays africains à prendre le relais de la france auprès de l 'armée malienne , après trois semaines " je vais au mali ( ... ) pour dire à nos soldats tout notre soutien , tous nos encouragements , toute notre fierté , ( ... ) pour permettre que les africains viennent le plus vite possible nous rejoindre et leur dire que nous avons besoin slateafrique - l ’ intervention des troupes françaises au mali est-elle de andré bourgeot - rapidement ?
certes pas !
l 'intervention militaire française a d 'une part stoppé l 'avancée des groupes armés djihadistes qui ont tenté de prendre sévaré , où il y a un aéroport international , et d 'autre part libéré l 'objectif est bien de rétablir la paix qui ne sera effective que lors de la reconquête totale de l 'intégrité du territoire national : cela demandera du temps d 'autant que , pour l 'heure , se sont essentiellement les militaires français qui sont en première ligne , avec une armée malienne affaiblie et dont la chaîne de slateafrique - est-ce que l 'enthousiasme des populations que vous avez observé au mali , par rapport à cette intervention , va durer ?
a.b. -globalement , les réactions sont favorables , en effet .
les populations du nord libérées du joug et de la terreur djihadiste reprennent vie et expriment a bamako , des vendeurs de petits drapeaux tricolores s 'activent sur les trottoirs de la capitale et reprennent le commerce informel , tricolore cette fois : les petits drapeaux qui flottent sont même achetés .
pour autant , est-ce maures et arabes ) manifeste son soulagement et sa joie .
ce qui ne veut pas dire que les groupes armés djihadistes ne disposeront pas , le cas échéant , de relais indépendantiste et laïc , connaît un sérieux déclin , depuis quelques semaines .
il s 'est fait d 'abord bouté hors de gao par le mujao ( mouvement pour l 'unicité du jihad en afrique de l 'ouest ) , puis de ménaka toujours par ce même il tente de rebondir en proposant ses services à l 'armée française , arguant du fait suivant : être des combattants aguerris et de bons connaisseurs de la qui ne renvoie à aucun fondement géographique et encore moins historique. sillonné par les pasteurs nomades maures .
berabich représente une superficie de 380 kilomètres carrés environ .
il souffre d 'un important déficit de légitimité & bdquo ; il est peu probable que la reconquête du nord soit rapide « a.b -tout dépend de ce que vous entendez par & bdquo ; nord « ?
si vous y intégrez toute la partie saharienne ( celle des montagnes , des grottes des dunes , des canyons ) ce qui est convenable et conforme au territoire national du mali , alors il est fort peu probable que la reconquête du nord soit rapide .
s 'emparer des villes de tombouctou , gao , kidal est à la portée des militaires .
mais la partie saharienne , stricto sensu sera une & bdquo ; autre paire de manches « : la slateafrique - l 'armée malienne est-elle capable de jouer un rôle dans la que j 'ai évoquées plus haut .
elle est profondément désorganisée voire divisée , mal équipée .
est-elle fermement motivée ?
récemment les militaires maliens ne recevaient même pas la nourriture nécessaire à la satisfaction de leurs besoins slateafrique - le capitaine sanogo conserve-t-il une grande influence dans le a.b. -il brille actuellement par son mutisme .
on dit qu 'il est au front .
l 'intervention militaire française a contribué à reléguer son influence à la périphérie des enjeux politiques , mais il peut ne pas avoir dit son dernier mot .
cette intervention a conforté la position du président par intérim , dioncounda traoré , au moment où des manifestants à bamako réclamaient à cor et à le pouvoir tricéphale , avant le coup de force perpétré par le capitaine sanogo lors de la destitution de l 'ex-premier ministre cheikh modibo diarra , est devenu bicéphale , puis , pour l ’ heure monocéphale , compte tenu du fait que diango cissoko , actuel premier ministre n 'a pas d 'ambition politique , contrairement à son prédécesseur et se positionne comme grand commis de l 'etat .
slateafrique - la france pourra-t-elle longtemps rester seule en première ligne ?
ne risque-t-elle pas d ’ apparaître comme un pays qui mène une opération a.b. -c 'est déjà fait .
une partie de la presse algérienne l 'accuse de nigériens ) d 'impérialisme .
quoi qu 'il en soit , y a-t-il des etats qui tous les etats défendent des intérêts politiques et économiques .
le mali recèle de prometteuses ressources extractives ( pétrole et gaz dans le site de taoudenni à cheval sur la mauritanie , le mali et l 'algérie , de l 'uranium dans manganèse , du phosphate ...
qui serait insensible à ces richesses ?
d 'autant que d 'autres puissances montantes , telle que la chine est réceptive à ces données .
enfin , le niger voisin recèle , lui , des richesses minières monnaie sonnante : areva est une multinationale française et la france a un fort besoin en uranium : slateafrique - l ’ algérie peut-elle accepter une présence de la france à long éradiquer les groupes djihadistes , l 'algérie peu en être satisfaite .
mais ces & bdquo ; fous de dieu « vont se réfugier où ?
dans les pays riverains , donc potentiellement en algérie .
même si celle-ci a décidé de fermer ses frontières .
comment peut-on & bdquo ; fermer « 1.400 km de frontières communes à des groupes expérimentés dans les activités criminelles , les trafics de toute nature ( cocaïne , cannabis , armes , êtres humains , etc . ) qui ont des relais , ou des complicités dans l 'ensemble de l 'espace sahélo-saharien et qui de surcroît flirtent slateafrique - les troupes ouest-africaines sont elles à même de prendre le a.b. -non , je ne le pense pas : il faudra du temps , de l 'organisation , de l 'argent et que le septentrion soit sécurisé : encore du temps ...
slateafrique - les troupes de certains pays africains , notamment le nigeria , sont réputées pour leur grande brutalité avec les populations civiles .
leur entrée dans le conflit ne risque-t-elle pas d ’ entraîner une radicalisation d ’ une a.b. -l 'intervention militaire vise à modifier les rapports de force militaires mais elle ne résout aucun problème politique et elle en pose même ou en posera d 'autres , probablement dans un laps de temps pas très éloigné .
si slateafrique - s ’ ils quittent leurs fiefs du nord-mali , les djihadistes ne risquent-ils pas de se développer des bases dans tous les pays de la région ?
a.b. -oui , ils vont se replier avec armes et bagages nécessaires , par petits groupes dans certains pays riverains où il existe déjà des & bdquo ; structures d 'accueil « .
il n 'est pas impossible que ces déplacements prennent une forme plus citadine et se manifestent donc dans des villes où des intérêts français sont bien connus et slateafrique - des pays comme le sénégal ou le burkina faso ne risquent-ils a.b. -sans doute moins que le niger et la mauritanie , mais le & bdquo ; moins « dans le slateafrique - si les troupes françaises et africaines parviennent à reprendre le contrôle du nord , sera-t-il possible d ’ organiser rapidement des a.b. -que faut-il entendre par contrôle du nord ?
quid des populations déplacées estimées à environ 200.000 et réfugiées dont le chiffre de 450.000 est je n 'imagine pas que des élections puissent se tenir au vu d 'une seule reconquête militaire des régions du nord du mali .
sauf si l 'on veut des élections bradées , faussement démocratiques qui ne feront que reposer de bien plus graves problèmes : la démocratie , si elle a un sens , ne souffre pas de bricolage ou de conception artisanale , laxiste , et frivole du politique : les if you would like to sign up for the bse reminder , click here .
all rights reserved | view full sitecriza din siria & # 8211 ; scenarii de război | cadran politic home politică externă criza din siria & # 8211 ; scenarii de război posted by dragoş tãbãran on aug 27th , 2013 / / comments off o operaţiune internaţională împotriva siriei este iminentă .
toate declaraţiile politice , toate mişcările de trupe , nave de război , avioane , toate evenimentele din ultimele două săptămâni indică acelaşi lucru .
avertismentele rusiei şi iranului de duminică demonstrează că în orientul mijlociu se joacă o partidă uriaşă de poker geopolitic .
doar un miracol poate amâna confruntarea .
credeţi că marea britanie a trimis în mediterana zece nave de război pentru manevre obişnuite ?
sau pentru a le arăta pescarilor spanioli că londra controlează ferm gibraltarul ?
flotila britanică include cam ce are mai puternic marea britanie în materie de proiectare a forţei de pe mare : un submarin nuclear din clasa trafalgar , capabil să lanseze rachete cu rază medie de acţiune tomahawk , două din cele mai moderne fregate , portelicopterul illustrious .
britanicii au la dispoziţie pentru operaţiuni aeriene împotriva siriei şi baza aeriană de la akrotiri , în cipru .
flota a vi-a a statelor unite , staţionată permanent în mediterana , a trimis în apele apropiate siriei patru distrugătoare capabile să lanseze rachete de croazieră tomahawk .
portavionul harry truman , unul dintre cele mai moderne din marina americană , e şi el prin mediterana , în apropiere de suez , adică foarte aproape de siria .
interesant ar fi să ştim pe unde mai e portavionul francez charles de gaulle , singurul pe care îl mai are franţa .
dar , şi mai interesant ar fi să ştim rezultatele întâlnirii de la amman a coordonatorilor militari ai operaţiunii anti-siriene la care a participat generalul martin dempsey , şeful statului major al forţelor armate ale sua .
dacă va fi decisă o operaţiune împotriva siriei , cu sau fără mandat onu , prima etapă va include un atac cu rachete de croazieră asupra bazelor unde sunt stocate armele chimice .
dar , probabil şi asupra unor baze ale armatei guvernamentale şi mai ales asupra unor componente ale apărării anti-aeriene .
un prim pas a fost făcut anul trecut : siria dispunea de patru staţii radar de mare putere care acopereau tot orientul mijlociu şi îi permiteau detectarea unui atac cu rachete sau de aviaţie .
trei dintre ele au fost distruse de „ rebeli ” de parcă erau vitale pentru supravieţuirea regimului assad în conflictul intern .
a rămas funcţională cea care baleiază orizontul spre arabia saudită .
la sfatul rusiei , assad a mutat tot arsenalul chimic în trei baze .
mai uşor de apărat dar şi mai uşor de distrus .
salva de rachete de croazieră nu va fi , însă , suficientă pentru a elimina pericolul chimic .
va fi necesară şi lovirea unor capacităţi esenţiale ale armatei siriene .
altfel spus , o lovitură directă în inima regimului care nu poate rămâne fără urmări !
armata siriană , sprijinită de iran şi hezbollah , a preluat în ultimele luni ofensiva iar opoziţia este la un pas de a pierde confruntarea .
lovirea unităţilor guvernamentale poate schimba soarta conflictului .
ce ar putea decide guvernul de la damasc pus cu spatele la zid ?
revanşa .
lovirea , eventual cu arme chimice , a vecinilor care au susţinut atacul extern .
declanşarea unui val de atentate în europa , statele unite şi oriunde există interese americane sau occidentale .
dacă ameninţările iraniene nu sunt fanfaronadă , teheranul poate ataca bazele americane din zona golfului şi america oriunde , inclusiv acasă .
poate deschide trei fronturi împotriva israelului : din gaza , din libanul de sud , din golan .
ar fi o catastrofă .
diminuarea capacităţilor de luptă ale armatei siriene ar putea fi momentul fazei a doua .
trimiterea în teren a sirienilor antrenaţi în iordania .
care ar putea forţa căderea regimului .
care ar putea scoate din joc frontul al nousra , cea mai agresivă grupare a opoziţiei , şi care nu este altceva decât al qaida .
preşedintele obama a spus-o cu ceva timp în urmă : bashar al assad nu mai poate face parte din viitoarea administraţie siriană .
dar , proiectul de a destrăma regimul baas şi de a-l înlocui cu unul democratic , fără extremiştii din al qaida , este pe cât de ambiţios , pe atât de fragil .
totul se joacă , la fel ca în poker , pe muchie de cuţit .
sau , ca la ruleta rusească .
« previouscriza din siria & # 8211 ; provocarea geopolitică din orientul mijlociu next “ geopolitica secolului xxi va fi una de factură cosmo-umanista ” – despre puterea informatiei si politica mileniului iii , impreuna cu acad .
albert ignatenko texas woman accused of shoplifting in alexandria fri oct 18 , 2013 05 : 14 am edt ’ undercover boss ’ : tv show to feature employee at alexandria ryan ’ s restaurant thu oct 17 , 2013 09 : 14 am edt move to new headquarters hits delays for br police fri oct 18 , 2013 01 : 14 am edt police and fire briefs thu oct 17 , 2013 11 : 14 pm edt gilmore ’ s sentence vacated thu oct 17 , 2013 07 : 14 am edt street to be renamed for perkins wed oct 16 , 2013 07 : 14 am edt westgate holds off cecilia , loreauville beats delcambre , pios top erath fri oct 18 , 2013 03 : 14 am edt millage tax goes to voters thu oct 17 , 2013 5 : 14 pm edt addressing the issues wed oct 16 , 2013 3 : 14 pm edt low turnout in early voting tue oct 15 , 2013 3 : 14 pm edt at colonial , harahan city council defers decision on subdivision , rezoning thu oct 17 , 2013 11 : 14 pm edt experts at bp trial try to poke holes in opposing theories of how much oil soiled the gulf in 2010 thu oct 17 , 2013 11 : 14 pm edt mettenberger said he ’ s fine fri oct 18 , 2013 05 : 14 am edt area football matchups fri oct 18 , 2013 05 : 14 am edt power outage halts ohs classes fri oct 18 , 2013 05 : 14 am edt residents call for chretien point road fix fri oct 18 , 2013 05 : 14 am edt max scherzer dazzles as tigers take game 1 from a ’ s fri oct 18 , 2013 05 : 14 am edt scene & heard : dr. john wows ’ em at glitz & grits fri oct 18 , 2013 05 : 14 am edt honda vfr 400cc in konica / minolta colours remolded in thailand tyres and new single or twin yoshimura can .
all bikes on this page were made in chiangmai by a thai owned shop .
you will see how the thais can make superb bikes .
check also pics of the pattaya bike week on choppers .
[ uk manufacturer who makes lightweight parts for all vfrs and cbrs your free classified ad now [ post ad ] promote your company in asia exports ] if you want to come to sunscreen / lipbalm : antarctica is the driest and sunniest continent on earth binoculars : you may not get close enough to pet the wildlife man indicted for habitual dui fri oct 18 , 2013 06 : 11 am edt police : man forges $ 14,979 check fri oct 18 , 2013 06 : 11 am edt nella media group to publish in-flight mag for ellisons island air fri oct 18 , 2013 12 : 11 am edt nella media group to publish inflight mag for ellisons island air thu oct 17 , 2013 10 : 11 pm edt advancing a milder version of mao ’ s calamities thu oct 17 , 2013 08 : 11 am edt alaska ’ s king-crab fleet is left in port by shutdown wed oct 16 , 2013 08 : 11 am edt galaway sentenced to 40 years in death of girlfriend thu oct 17 , 2013 8 : 11 pm edt haleakala national park reopens thu oct 17 , 2013 6 : 11 pm edt apnewsbreak : new charges in blackwater shootings fri oct 18 , 2013 06 : 11 am edt inspection changes could be on the menu fri oct 18 , 2013 06 : 11 am edt home vitrina cu cărți românia post 1989 & # 8211 ; catherine durandin şi zoe petre posted by cezar dobre on apr 5th , 2011 / / comments off prima parte a volumului intitulat „ o eliberare dificilă ” ne arată că în primele momente după căderea regimurilor comuniste în europa de est , numeroşi analişti au impus termenul „ tranziţie ” ca şi cum punctul de plecare şi cel de sosire ar fi fost perfect cunoscute .
aceste borne simbolice erau întunecate în punctul de plecare apăsate de crimele comunismului , dar luminoase în perspectiva unei sosiri presupuse într-o lume liberă şi prosperă .
doamna catherine durandin impresionează pentru faptul că , pe lângă o cunoaştere aprofundată a realităţilor istorice ale poporului nostru , a dat dovadă de o mare atenţie şi sensibilitate atunci când a pus problema procesului de integrare în nato şi uniunea europeană .
dacă procesul integrării a pus mai puţine probleme şi datorită maşinii de putere americane care a funcţionat sprijinită de propriul „ think-tank ” , procesul de integrare în ue este mai complex şi aceasta datorită faptului că românia este o ţară europeană şi se poate irita numai la faptul că trebuie să demonstreze acest lucru în faţa comisiei europene .
în capitolele următoare ale cărţii , doamna zoe petre , o excepţională cunoscătoare a lumii antice , dar și a istoriei poporului român , remarca cu privire la distrugerea simbolurilor puterii comuniste în decembrie 1989 că lozinca „ jos comunismul ” este greu de crezut că a fost o provocare a kgb-ului – care , logic , nu putea adopta un astfel de slogan .
dacă nu a fost prima , cel puţin a fost printre primii analişti care a prezentat cu adevărat o realitate dureroasă pentru noi românii , mai ales pentru o anumită categorie de români , vizavi de evenimentele din decembrie 1989 când șefii securității au decis pe tăcute să adopte pe cât posibil politica struţului şi să lase în seama armatei şi eventual a gărzilor patriotice sarcina de a se „ sacrifica pentru salvarea regimului ceaușist ” .
un profesor de valoarea doamnei zoe petre nu putea să nu pună adevărul istoric în faţa legendei armatei devotate poporului , de asemenea a făcut o distincţie clară între instituţia „ odioasă a securităţii ” şi activitatea cadrelor acesteia , în timpul revoluţiei din decembrie , şi ceea ce este cel mai dureros pentru unii care au participat la conducerea țării în anii ‘ 90 este faptul că atât ion iliescu , cât şi cei din anturajul lui ştiau prea bine că „ teroriştii ” sunt o ficţiune criminală si un „ spectacol regizat ” .
evenimentele care au urmat : martie 1990 , târgu mureş , când regimul lui ion iliescu îşi asuma deschis tezele naţional-comunismului , şi piaţa universităţii , iunie 1991 , au dus la netezirea drumului cdr care în final l-a propulsat pe preşedintele emil constantinescu care a adus prima alternanţă democratică la putere după 60 de ani .
indiferent de dificultăţile deseori insurmontabile ale legiferării , preşedintele emil constantinescu a fost primul şef de stat român care a condamnat comunismul , a cerut iertare în numele statului pe care îl reprezenta atunci tuturor victimelor represiunii anticomuniste cerând parlamentului româniei să adopte măsurile reparatorii necesare care decurgeau din această condamnare .
administraţia constantinescu a fost cea care a pus bazele integrării europene şi euroatlantice a româniei , iar politica de bună vecinătate a fost exprimată în discursul domniei sale în 2 decembrie 1996 la reuniunea la vârf a osce de la lisabona şi s-a situat pe parcursul întregului său mandat într-o logică a complementarităţii faţă de politicile de aderare la uniunea europeană şi integrare euroatlantică .
din nefericire , sublinia doamna zoe petre , refuzând să accepte faptul ca victoria din 1996 fusese decisivă , dar parţială , şi nu un triumf absolut , nucleul dur al partizanilor cdr nerăbdător şi radical , s-a desprins repede de realităţile unei puteri care era obligată să negocieze fiecare pas spre reformă , mai mult „ trădarea iubită ” de unii politicieni din cadrul convenţiei democratice , care au dus în secret tratative cu psd – ne referim aici concret la pnl – , au dat lovitura de graţie cdr-ului .
cu toate acestea , procesul de democratizare a devenit astfel ireversibil şi înfrângerea partidelor din fosta convenţie democratică nu a mai putut să schimbe radical victoriile dobândite în cei patru ani de guvernare democratică a româniei .
în perfect acord cu doamna catherine durandin , care este fără niciun dubiu istoricul francez cel mai informat cu privire la românia pe care o cunoaşte foarte bine şi o iubeşte cu inteligenţă şi pasiune , doamna zoe petre , cu un discernământ critic , deseori amar , nu numai că refuză să inventeze „ o idilă ” despre revoluţie , cum sunt multe cărţi apărute pe piaţă , ci scoate tema excepţiei româneşti din categoria fatalităţilor istorice obiective şi o înscrie în istoria concretă a postcomunismului .
next the vision of aurelio peccei and its implications for our future © 2011 cadran politic · rss · designed by theme junkie · powered by wordpress solomon islands news headlines top storiesnews near youworldu.s.businesstechnologyentertainmentsportssciencehealthspotlighttop storiesnews near youworldu.s.businesstechnologyentertainmentsportssciencehealthspotlightdetroit tigerswashington postsee realtime coveragered sox take 3-2 leadespn ( blog ) - & lrm ; 9 hours ago & lrm ; cabrera was thrown out at the plate in the first inning , halting an early detroit rally , and he hit into a double play against tazawa with runners at the corners in the seventh.related boston red sox letter : on the 15th anniversary of the incarceration of the cuban five in the usa antigua-barbuda minister applauds mou between cxc and regional telecoms company country via computer then you can and the receiver will not be billed .
unfortunately thailand is not on the mtns system as only companies however you can send out of thailand direct to the mobile number in seconds . [ & asia trading post co ltd by way of contract .
all breaches of our copyright will be deemed an infringement on the copyrights of this bnp paribas chose the two best bids for three of the five fields chevron has put up for sale in the niger delta . ( ... )
to help finance its acquisition of conocophillips in nigeria , oando has arranged for its parent company to carry its shares in brass lng . ( ... )
relatively discreet since he left the post of nigeria ’ s oil minister in 2010 , rilwanu ( ... )
bujumbura - a burundian court opened the trial friday of a " we argued that the arrest of our client was arbitrary and we called for his temporary release .
the court adjourned for consultation , " on july 12 , a day after the kampala bombings , he wrote that on the opposite end of the dining spectrum are the likes of le pressoir and le cottage , some of the finer french restaurants in the area .
when it comes to service , food preparation and quality , and wine pairings , a night in one of these dining rooms makes it clear why st martin is widely considered the fine dining capital of the caribbean .
they do it right ! products ] [ arriving bangkok ] [ see online ads ] [ back paintings ] [ wood doors ] [ motorcycle exports ] boxes & eskies ] [ bike t shirts ] [ jeans ] [ china minibikes & off roaders ] [ oil paintings & reproductions ] tops ] [ lacquerware pictures and frames ] [ jockey do you have a feel good story ?
tell us about it below .
the inauguration of the first section of contourglobal ’ s methane gas power plant on lake kivu is now scheduled for the end of march . ( ... )
italian engineer giuseppe ciccarelli is fast becoming a man to be reckoned with ( ... )
in north carolina , mccrory will succeed a governor , democrat bev perdue , who narrowly beat him for the job four years ago .
perdue chose not to run for a second term , after a string of controversies dogged mexico , jan brewer of arizona and mary fallin of oklahoma . )
" mystical body mystical voice " - catechesis programassension press : " a biblical walk through the mass " " praying the mass " by jeffrey pinyan morocco is vying to regain the initiative as the un makes a new peace push for the disputed territory of western sahara . ( 10 / 15 / 2013 1 : 05 : 16 pm ) a meeting was held in kinshasa in early may between officials from perenco and the cabinda gulf oil company ( cabgoc / chevron ) to decide how to use gas currently torched by the french ( ... )
although he is nearing 65 , helder josé bataglia dos santos , a portuguese businessman ( ... )
if you are interested in becoming more involved in the mission of cchd orlearning more , please contact patrice at 218-724-9111 or pcritchley @ dioceseduluth.org.
m23 , les raisons d ’ une fissure et de la reddition de bosco ntaganda le 23 a éclaté en deux groupes qui se sont même affronté à l ’ arme lourde .
coup de théâtre ou réalité ?
des commentaires sont allés dans tous les sens .
pour ceux qui maitrisent la réalité de l ’ est du congo , tout ceci était né de cendres du cndp de laurent nkunda , le m23 avait dans son sein deux tendances antagonistes qui ont fini par étaler au grand public leurs c ’ est depuis 2009 que le clivage s ’ est établit au sein de ce qui va devenir le mécontent de la distance que laurent nkunda , alors chef du cndp , commençait à avoir vis-à-vis des hommes du pouvoir rwandais , kigali , de connivence avec kinshasa , va décider de le retirer de la scène pour passer la main à bosco ntaganda .
question de continuer à avoir la main mise sur toutes les transactions mis au froid au rwanda , laurent nkunda bénéficiait toujours de l ’ estime de nombreux combattants du cndp du nombre duquel se trouvait le colonel makenga .
soutenu par kigali et kinshasa , bosco ntaganda va se faire nommer général fardc avec plein pouvoir dans la région du kivu .
au nom de la paix , le pouvoir de ceci jusqu ’ au début de 2013 quand une forte pression internationale pesait sur kinshasa exigeant l ’ arrestation de bosco ntaganda et son transfèrement a la cpi .
mis au parfum de l ’ éventualité de son arrestation , bosco ntaganda va décider de faire défection des fardc et retourner dans le maquis .
l ’ occasion faisant le larron , les autres ex-combattants cndp intégrés dans le fardc vont trouver l ’ opportunité de revendiquer des insuffisances dans la mise en œuvre des bosco étant indexé par la cpi , le dévolu a été jeté sur sultani makenga pour diriger cette nouvelle insurrection .
le choix de sultani makenga rencontrait les attentes de kigali et kinshasa pour qui bosco ntaganda devenait très encombrant .
malgré cela , ce général rebelle continuait à avoir de l ’ emprise sur certains le 20 novembre 2012 , quand la ville de goma tombe entre les mains de m23 , des avis étaient très divergents quant à la manière de gérer cette victoire dans les la direction politique du m23 confiée à jean marie runiga ne parlait pas le même langage avec le chef militaire sultani makenga .
pour runiga et bosco ntaganda il fallait maintenir la pression sur la ville de goma et exiger des préalables à remplir par le gouvernement de kinshasa à défaut de continuer à pendant que la direction politique s ’ époumoner à faire prévaloir certains préalables , contre toute attente , sultani makenga va se rendre à kampala et décider unilatéralement de négocier avec kinshasa sans condition .
c ’ était comme une douche froide pour runiga , bosco ntaganda et les hommes de leur obédience , une pilule amère difficile à avaler .
a l ’ époque , certaines langues faisaient croire même que makenga a été soudoyé par le pouvoir de kinshasa pour accepter pendant les négociations de kampala , le m23 a été déclaré force négative par la ainsi la marge de manœuvre de cette rébellion .
de quoi inquiéter bosco ntaganda recherché par la cpi et jean marie runiga sous sanction de la communauté internationale .
la scission devenait donc impérieuse .
ce que vont tenter de faire le tandem runiga et bosco en ouvrant des hostilités contre les hommes de la tendance makenga .
mais , c ’ était sans compter avec kinshasa et kigali qui tenaient à se débarrasser de bosco ntaganda , ce témoin gênant .
les deux capitales ne voulaient plus de cet homme qui en savait déjà trop sur des magouilles de leurs pouvoirs respectifs à l ’ est de la rdc .
l ’ ordre a été donné à makenga de traquer bosco , le capturer et le déférer devant la justice .
tout toutes les tentatives de bosco ntaganda pour se retrancher vers le masisi ont été stoppées net par les hommes de makenga .
il ne lui restait qu ’ un plus choix : ntaganda se livre à la cpi , kinshasa et kigali court-circuités sentant venir le danger , aussitôt arrivé au rwanda , bosco ntaganda a vite fait de se rendre à l ’ ambassade des usa à kigali pour demander asile et son extradition à la cpi .
en agissant ainsi , cet ancien chef d ’ etat major du cndp a fait preuve d ’ une méfiance totale envers les pouvoirs de kigali et de kinshasa qu ’ il a longtemps servi .
l ’ homme redoutait même le pire pour sa vie .
la volonté de bosco ntaganda de se rendre à la cpi ne date pas d ’ aujourd ’ hui .
nos sources renseignent que ce général avait , en vain , demander au pouvoir de kinshasa de le dédommager pour le travail lui rendu avant de l ’ envoyer à la cpi .
un million de dollars , c ’ est la somme que ce général rebelle exigeait à kinshasa kinshasa , pour des raisons qui lui sont propres , n ’ avait jamais prêté oreille comme laurent nkunda , bosco ntaganda n ’ a pas été extradé en rdc par le rwanda .
c ’ est toute la mesure des bons rapports caractérisant le rwanda et la rdc .
l ’ histoire a tendance à toujours se répéter à l ’ est de la rdc s ’ agissant de sa situation sécuritaire .
depuis l ’ avènement de l ’ afdl en 1997 , cette partie du congo vit dans une insécurité quasi permanente .
transformée en sanctuaire des groupes armés , tant nationaux qu ’ étrangers , la partie orientale de la rdc ne rassure plus ses habitants confrontés , de manière permanente , à diverses ici , des rebellions naissent toujours des cendres d ’ autres .
c ’ est à croire qu ’ il y aurait une certaine programmation des malheurs qui s ’ abattent sur les populations de l ’ est de la rdc .
les tireurs des ficelles s ’ organiseraient pour maintenir la déstabilisation de la partie orientale du congo .
dans leurs tactiques , ils s ’ appuient sur des conflits identitaires qui minent cette contrée .
en 1996 , tout est partie d ’ une révolte de banyamulenge ( tusi ) qui avait fini par se muer en une rébellion dénommée afdl .
en 1998 , une brouille entre le pouvoir kabila père et ses mentors tutsi de l ’ afdl a donné naissance à la quand il fallait former le gouvernement de transition en 2004 , le rdc / goma est allé à kinshasa laissant derrière lui une troupe de réserve chapeauté par jules mutebusi et laurent nkunda .
c ’ est ce noyau laissé par le rcd qui a tout ceci porte à croire que la question de la survie tutsi en rdc préoccuperait plusieurs décideurs du monde au point qu ’ ils en feraient l ’ l ’ une des clés pour résoudre la question sécuritaire en rdc .
sinon , comment comprendre cette succession d ’ insurrection tutsi bénéficiant du soutien de certains milieux les clivages entre les différentes communautés linguistiques présentes dans la partie orientale du congo ainsi que la problématique d ’ exploitation des richesses naturelles de l ’ est du congo , sont d ’ autres raisons à la base de qu ’ adviendra-t-il après cette rébellion du m23 ?
plusieurs congolais ne annie ’ s mailbox : she ’ s bitter , but trying to get over it - thu , 17 oct 2013 pst a 90210 reunion ?
see you at the peach pit to celebrate !
jennie garth has joined tori spelling as star and executive producer of the new abc family pilot mystery girls , the network ... ( 10 / 7 / 2013 7 : 59 : 26 pm ) cat and dog killed in ypsilanti township house fire thu oct 17 , 2013 8 : 16 pm edt gay marriage ban frustrates couples in battle creek thu oct 17 , 2013 6 : 16 pm edt shake your mailbox day is saturday thu oct 17 , 2013 6 : 16 pm edt rain expected to clear out of comerica park by tigers-red sox game time thu oct 17 , 2013 8 : 16 pm edt rain forecast for tonight ’ s game thu oct 17 , 2013 6 : 16 pm edt bernard kilpatrick sentencing set for today in corruption scandal thu oct 17 , 2013 08 : 16 am edt billboards ask : who needs religion ?
fri oct 18 , 2013 02 : 16 am edt jeff seidel : magical figure skating weekend on ice at the joe fri oct 18 , 2013 02 : 16 am edt rose ’ s revival no surprise to pistons ’ bynum fri oct 18 , 2013 02 : 16 am edt ’ i catch on fast ’ as 3-way receiver , u-m ’ s funchess says fri oct 18 , 2013 02 : 16 am edt billboards ask : who needs religion ?
fri oct 18 , 2013 12 : 16 am edt police believe ’ felony lane gang ’ connected to recent thefts in royal oak fri oct 18 , 2013 02 : 16 am edt police accuse waterford twp. motorist of pointing gun at a truck driver tue mar 26 , 2013 10 : 16 pm edt fans jostle for standing-room-only spots at comerica park fri oct 18 , 2013 02 : 16 am edt chesterfield twp. man found rolling in roadway arraigned on cocaine charge thu oct 17 , 2013 4 : 16 pm edt follow tradition , unwritten rules to snag ball at tigers ’ batting practice thu oct 17 , 2013 02 : 16 am edt tigers ’ alex avila succumbs to beating behind plate , is day to day with knee strain fri oct 18 , 2013 02 : 16 am edt red wings end avalanche streak , lose niklas kronwall to concussion fri oct 18 , 2013 12 : 16 am edt red wings defenseman niklas kronwall leaves game in colorado on stretcher , has concussion fri oct 18 , 2013 12 : 16 am edt ’ haunt for hunger ’ in southfield returns for halloween thu oct 17 , 2013 8 : 16 pm edt man at detroit citgo station shot after attack on two people thu oct 17 , 2013 6 : 16 pm edt rain , falling temperatures on the way for flint area fri oct 18 , 2013 06 : 16 am edt flint man heading to las vegas for a chance to win $ 1 million thanks to michigan lottery thu oct 17 , 2013 10 : 16 pm edt west michigan students celebrate ’ lights on afterschool ’ thu oct 17 , 2013 8 : 16 pm edt in a game ruled by pacs , michigan higher ed stays on the bench thu oct 17 , 2013 2 : 16 pm edt kindness from holt elementary school has custodian ’ paying it forward ’ thu oct 17 , 2013 6 : 16 pm edt portion of waverly road closed due to accident thu oct 17 , 2013 4 : 16 pm edt banro and banro group ( barbados ) limited declare dividends payable on series a preference shares of banro and ...
geomorphology is the study of landforms and in the antarctic , these studies have mainly been concerned with the effects of the ice sheet on the underlying rock , as well as the study of glacial deposits , and the formation of patterned ground .
are there vast deposits of precious metals and ores beneath the antarctic ice sheet ?
are there huge basins of gas and oil under the weddell and ross seas ?
britain to accept public input in debate on us and domestic spyinglos angeles timesspy agencies ' accountabilityphilippine starsee all 73 sourcesrelated edward snowden 5.lithuania signed an international agreement on mercury on behalf of the eu oas supports and certifies destruction of weapons in costa rica the northern cross - catechesis and apologeticsliz hoefferle : as individuals and family , we share mission of priestshow the ordained and laity carry out that mission differs , but has same threefold basethe diocese of duluth once again has the opportunity to rejoice as three young men will be ordained to the holy priesthood , with two more being ordained to the transitional diaconate during this month of june.through the sacrament of holy orders , they will be consecrated in christ ’ s name & ldquo ; to feed the church by the word and grace of god & rdquo ; ( lumen gentium 11 ) .we are truly blessed by the generous response of these young men , which allows us to be nourished by god ’ s word and to grow in his grace.priest , prophet and kingmen who have been called by god to serve as priests and thus receive the sacrament of holy orders are empowered to act as representatives of jesus christ and to carry out christ ’ s threefold mission as priest , prophet and king .
oas supports and certifies destruction of arms and ammunition in dominica liat to receive us $ 65 million from cdb for fleet modernisation ashanti cruised into their second win of the season to enjoy a 2-1 advantage and leapfrog to the safe horizon of the premiership standings .
oljoro will be at home to one of the hottest title contenders , azam fc at their sheikh amri abeid stadium base in arusha .
a hard-driving ghanaian businessman who ’ s somewhat of a jack-of-all-trades , william ato essien , was in london last week for the mining on top africa seminar to lay out his new venture , ( ... )
the roadblocks to constructing the cross-border dam are being gradually lifted thanks to harare ’ s goodwill . ( ... )
five years after queen elizabeth ii stripped him of his knighthood in response to “ repugnance ” of the violation of human rights in his country , zimbabwe ’ s president robert mugabeis ( ... )
why investors shouldn 't fret about a government shutdown .
and what about a few " high integrity " dividend stocks ?
paralyzed italian hand-bike cyclist norberto de angelis begins a 720 km tricycle trek from matembwe in njombe to dar es salaam on sunday .
the election was constitutionally supposed to be held in 2011 but suffered a two-year postponement due to lack of funds so says the ttta official .
disclosing this in dar es salam , sponsor of the event dioniz malinzi who is also the chairman for the national sports council ( nsc ) said the tournament is aims at acknowledge the good job of professional golfers .
italian hand-bike rider norberto de angelis who was involved in a car crash way back in 1992 , arrived in dar es salaam on tuesday in readiness for 1,000-kilometre trek from matembwe in southern highlands to dar es salaam .
newly promoted mbeya city fc has so far shrugged off its underdog tag to rub shoulders with title contenders as the mainland premiership attains ninth round this week .
the donation has boosted the team ’ s coffers ahead of travelling to nairobi for the inaugural africa zone v golf championship that tees off at the rift valley golf club in naivasha on october 27 .
former julius berger and later jigawa godins stars of the nigerian premier football league clubs damilola fiye ( 23 ) arrived in dar es salaam on sunday in search of greener pastures .
yanga walloped kagera sugar 2-1 in an away game at the kaitaba stadium in bukoba while simba whipped prisons 1-0 at the national stadium in dar es salaam .
the candidates who have been reinstated by a referral committee chaired by judge bernard luanda are samwel nyalla , ayubu nyaulingo and ayoub nyenzi .
the second edition of uhuru marathon will be staged in dar es salaam on december 8 and has attracted international athletes as confirmed by the event organizing chairman who happens to be the dar es salaam regional commissioner , sadick m. what will disappoint spectators to watch the ongoing mainland premiership is not high entry fees but the crude and uncalled for impartiality displayed by the referees ?
the quest to avoid dropping points by trade mark clubs in the likes of yanga , simba and to some extent azam fc has now resulted to poor officiating by the referees who bend rules to favour the teams at a broad daylight !
the annual nyerere masters golf that tees off at the dar es salaam gymkhana club course has so far attracted over hundred participants from all over the country .
the protracted election is scheduled for october 27 in dar es salam to end an eight-month standoff .
tanzania breweries limited has organised a dar es salaam derby between archrivals young africans and simba to be played at the national stadium on december 14 .
the match will be staged to boost the brewers ’ sales promotion campaign dubbed nani mtani jembe as confirmed by the brewers brand manager for the kilimanjaro beer george kavishe yesterday .
four teams out of the 14 have managed to keep unbeaten run up to the end of the seventh round of the mainland premier soccer league .
simba 's newest scoring sensational khamis tambwe is again on the spotlight as the dar es salaam giants will be away to ruvu shooting at the national stadium in dar es salaam tomorrow .
dar es salaam gymkhana club will for the firth year in a row host the annual bq open junior tennis tournament mid next month .
simba ’ s marksman khamis tambwe has set up a target of twenty goals at the end of the first half of the ongoing mainland premiership soccer season .
the burundi international who signed for simba at the beginning of this season , declared his mission during an interview at the end of the team ’ s practise session in dares salaam yesterday .
young africans ugandan import khamis kiiza has vowed to track simba striker khamis tambwe in the race towards golden boot award for the unfolding premiership season .
the yanga striker who scored the only goal against ruvu shootring last saturday at the national stadium in dar es salaam has taken his tally to two after as many appearances .
it ’ s hard to suggest that the dar es salaam side is on its way to the relegation tunnel as plenty of time and games remain on the fixture .
jkt ruvu and simba goalkeepers shaaban dihile and abel dharia have so kept the longest clean sheets of 270 minutes between the posts .
regional commissioner evarist ndikilo who was accompanied by the city ’ s mayor stanslaus mabula confirmed to the tanzania football federation ’ s president leodegar tenga that the authorities will give boost by contributing a staggering $ 118,000 for the installation of the turf .
hosts rhino rangers and ashanti united are scheduled to meet in their first leg tie of the mainland premiership to be played at the ali hassan mwinyi stadium in tabora this evening .
the finals will be held in namibia and the first leg match is scheduled to be staged in lusaka between february 13 and 15 .
the cycling association of tanzania ( chabata ) has chopped down entry fees for aspiratnts who need to contest for the body ; s general election as confirmed by chairman nazil manji in dar es salaam yesterday .
kinondoni – based top land club cruise to national pool champions at te end of the championship staged in morogoro over the weekend .
so far results of 28 matches played refelcets a mixed outcome as some of the underdogs have tried hard to shrug of their tag .
the government has said it is concerned with the poor form of athletics in the country and there is a need for immediate action to serve the situation .
the tournamwent has drawn selected teams from the continent where airtel operates and agege township stadium is the venue for the event .
previously the deadline was to be last sunday but a firther extension was entettained to lure more entries .
the charts for wal-mart , home depot , and macy 's do not bode well for the retail sector , or the broader market .
walgreen and tjx are bright spots .
the s & p 500 hit a new record high thursday , one day after lawmakers voted to reopen the government and ended a fiscal showdown that put the nation at risk of default .
but a batch of lackluster corporate earnings weighed on the dow .
the s & p 500 rose ...
blog archivelatest from svaboda.org у воршы рыхтуюць пікет пра аварыйны мост кхп-бнф вылучыў пазьняка на нобэля звольненыя з мазырскага нпз будуць узнаўляцца на працы праз суд чаму бнф не перамог у чым самая асноўная заслуга бнф ?
radio svaboda ( in belarusian ) features & commentary 紐約華美旅遊位於法拉盛市中心40 rd上 ， 為代理全方位旅遊行程及機票的專業旅行社 專辦 ： 專業規劃各類行程 婚禮蜜月行程規劃 美國至全球各地廉價機票 中國至美國機票 美國買票 ， 中國取票 歐洲中國旅遊團 美加東各地旅遊團 代理各大豪華遊輪 台灣精緻環島遊 ...
namei group inc is a certified and independent travel agency in flushing , new york and set up its subsidiary in beijing .
we mia ... country is lao people 's democratic republic .
in lao , sathalanalat pasathipatai pasason lao. routes between thailand , vietnam and china now makes it a country to be courted by its internationalizing neighbors .
arr 1220 thursday & sunday.luang phrabang to vientiane dep 1250 ancient cultural artifacts are prohibited to be taken out of laos .
if you have on arrival at wattaya international airport in vientiane , taxis are available to savannakhet and pakse , the khong falls , and low water levels during the dry transportation : nam ou , nam khan , nam tha , nam hgur , and se don .
lao pdr has 13100 km of main road networks .
the 3390 km of national roads link the central telephone office is located on setthathilath road near nam phu the local newspaper to read is the vientiane times and if you want to check as the site known as ( www.vientianetimes ) has nothing to do with the where you can also receive a copy of the chiangmai trader news moncef marzouki , ali larayedh et mustapha ben jaâfar chassés par des membres des forces de l 'ordre de la cérémonie pour les gardes nationaux tués ...
vague d 'indignation après les évènements de la veille à gbollat liberté d 'expression - ( les personnages de moncef m. et de jabeur m. ainsi que les situations de ce récit étant purement fictifs , toute ressemblance avec des personnes ou des situations existantes ou ayant existé ne saurait être dépendante que de la volonté des auteurs ) .
corruption - chaque semaine , un quotidien national , un hebdomadaire ou bien un blog nous parle de la corruption , ce mal qui nous gangrène tant et si bien qu 'il en est devenu un sport national .
nous sommes abreuvés de détails , de noms , de lieux et d 'ouvertures d 'enquête avec des mandats d 'arrêts nationaux et internationaux .
turquie - le 30 septembre , le premier ministre recep tayyip erdogan a annoncé un plan de démocratisation .
il a confirmé l 'enveloppe de réformes tant attendu , qui allait , selon lui , propulser le processus de démocratisation de la turquie dans une " phase nouvelle et décisive " .
mais est-ce vrai ?
présidentielles algériennes - en dépit des apparences , abdelaziz bouteflika a une bonne longueur d 'avance sur ses concurrents annoncés .
vieux , malade , usé , il reste , malgré tout , présent dans le jeu politique ; pour le régime en place depuis l 'indépendance depuis 1962 , c 'est l 'homme providentiel qui lui permettra de jouer les prolongations .
étudiant à l 'iep de paris ( sciences po ) et intéressé par la politique algérienne .
médias - al-jazeera a annoncé vouloir traîner la chaîne algérienne devant les tribunaux après l 'avoir ouvertement accusée de piratage .
un piratage d 'ailleurs parfaitement assumé par les autorités dirigeantes d 'entv , qui affirment défendre " le droit des algériens au spectacle " .
droits de l 'enfant - la largesse de washington dans le financement des casques bleus présente une manœuvre habile : l 'administration obama contrôle ainsi la catégorisation , identifiant les nations qui fonctionnent avec de " bons " enfants-soldats et celles qui fonctionnent avec les " méchants " .
et cela se fait dans l 'intérêt de la sécurité nationale des états-unis , et non de la sécurité collective des nations-unies .
vue d 'expat ' - à l 'instar de quelques autres états dans le monde , l 'une des principales difficultés de la jeunesse tunisienne réside dans son incapacité à faire front commun pour coordonner efficacement son action sur des enjeux rassembleurs et porteurs .
cette difficulté est typique des démocraties naissantes .
psychologie - comme le rappelait christophe plottard : " le mélange de plusieurs activités simultanées porte un nom : le multitasking .
en français , le multitâches .
un phénomène lié au développement des nouvelles technologies , auquel tout le monde semble s 'être accoutumé " .
politique - nonobstant ce conservatisme travesti , les " progressistes " en tunisie fustigent l 'idée d 'un combat contre les courants dits " réactionnaires " , assimilés - à tort - au conservatisme .
pourtant , les divergences entre les deux pôles ne semblent pas bien délimitées .
l 'internet aujourd 'hui accessible et omniprésent est source de distractions sans fin que nous-mêmes en tant qu 'adulte nous avons de la peine à gérer.alors voici une ébauche de dix règles à respecter pour éviter que vos enfants passent trop de temps devant leurs écrans .
eau - c 'est donc la déchirure d 'une pièce en acier intercalée entre deux conduites en fonte qui serait à l 'origine de la pénurie sans précédent d 'eau potable dans la capitale sénégalaise .
toute justification de la faillite d 'un ouvrage d 'ingénierie , qui représente un risque à la sécurité au public , ne peut être réduite à " une défaillance d 'ordre technique " , de surcroît trop précipitamment médiatisée comme imprévisible .
mariage gay - moi , dominique , je suis français .
moi mohammed , je suis marocain .
nous vivons ensemble depuis un bon bout de temps .
en mars dernier , nous nous sommes pacsés .
les mois suivants , la loi du mariage pour tous est entrée en vigueur .
c 'était très tentant ...
pourquoi pas nous , après tout ?
liberté d 'expression - ceux ayant ordonné l 'arrestation d 'anouzla voient-ils court ?
leur volontarisme , loin de créer un coupable , enfante un martyr de la liberté d 'expression .
et la presse , au lieu de fédérer ses forces pour dénoncer le message terroriste d 'aqmi , se consacrera tout naturellement et prioritairement à la défense de son bastion contre une tentative de liberticide .
voilà que la lutte antiterroriste s 'emballe , tourne contre-productive , octroie gracieusement à la menace terroriste plus de consistance , en la couvrant d 'un nuage médiatique l 'ayant ( presque ) faite oublier .
en tunisie comme partout dans le monde musulman , l 'aïd-el-kébir porte aussi le nom d 'aïd-el-idha , c 'est à dire la fête du sacrifice .
comme le disait si bien le docteur calmette " le présent est lourd du passé " .
beaucoup de nos gestes d 'aujourd 'hui nous ramènent à la réalité d 'autrefois .
quotidien de l 'aïd - oui , le tunisien aime toucher le mouton .
il suffit de se rendre au terrain vague du quartier pour y voir des hommes de tous âges , fébriles , souriants , observant , jaugeant ces belles touffes de poils , cette belle laine duveteuse , ces yeux doux évoquant la jouissance du méchoui , l 'extase du couscous , la volupté des côtelettes , la luxure de la hergma !
méditerranée - une très grande partie de la responsabilité du grand cimetière marin est à trouver du côté des dirigeants africains , qui devraient proposer à leurs jeunesses un projet politique , économique et social attrayant , possible et surtout qui engloberait l 'ensemble de la population .
plan de démocratisation de l 'akp : politique en faveur d 'erdogan , illusion démocratique " c 'est la première fois de l 'histoire de la garde nationale qu 'un tel évènement se produit " capture d 'écranles agents qui ont " dégagé " les trois présidents seront poursuivis " on ne se marie pas avec l 'intention de divorcer , c 'est péché " nacer talel pour le huffpost maghreb à peine élue , l 'arabie saoudite refuse d 'entrer au conseil de sécurité de l 'onuafp au moins 66 morts dans une série d 'attentats en irakafp nadhir ben ammou cherche-t-il à mettre la main sur l 'instance provisoire de la magistrature ? facebook / ministère de la justice tunisie : non-lieu pour le rappeur klay bbjnacer talel pour huffpost maghreb malek jaziri ne sera pas sanctionné par l 'atpfacebook / malek jaziriil est blanchi tunisie : les recettes du tourisme en légère hausse sur neuf moiswikipedia l 'air qui nous entoure provoque le cancer , affirme l 'omsflickr / akeg | flickr la crise égyptienne se déplace à parisflickr / jeremy weate | flickr fin du shutdown : ce qui va se passer avec la réouverture des administrationsshutterstock expulsions polémiques au pays des droits de l 'hommeafpl 'affaire leonarda n 'est pas une première ...
le malaise de la gauche française un blogueur algérien risque 10 ans de prison pour avoir publié des caricatures sur facebookmoosharellaamnesty international appelle à sa libération immédiate les syriens " autorisés " à manger du chien et du chat pour ne pas mourir de faimflickr / freedomhouse | flickr un accord conclu in extremis au sénat américain pour amorcer une sortie de criseafp accès aux tic : la tunisie 2ème pays du maghreb , à la 91ème place mondialeflickr / rusty clark | flickr portraits saisissants de réfugiés syriens , des messages plein les brasdear world / care ce jeune homme a visité 196 pays à travers le mondeflickr / sarah _ jones | flickr les plus beaux clichés de la vie sauvage en 2013wildlife photographer of the year david bowie , l 'anglais le " mieux habillé de tous les temps " l 'extrême droite belge interdite de semelles rouges , louboutin lance une collection pour toutesflickr / valeyoshino | flickr 10 choses qu 'on ne fait plus à cause de nos écransgetty comment les jeux vidéo renforcent la culture du violcrystal dynamics exports imports & shipping [ shipping form ] [ shipping info ] [ shipping & freight ] [ arriving bangkok ] [ importing to thailand ] [ importing cars & trecut şi prezent în politica externa românească | cadran politic home idei contemporane trecut şi prezent în politica externa românească posted by florin constantiniu on mar 25th , 2003 / / comments off istoria românilor alatura exemple de uluitor curaj si de totala neîncredere în fortele proprii istoria românilor alatura exemple de uluitor curaj si de totala neîncredere în fortele proprii .
mircea cel batrân , vlad tepes , stefan cel mare si alti voievozi au cautat alianta unor mari puteri crestine în lupta cu imperiul otoman & # 8211 ; pâna în secolul al xvi-lea , o adevarata superputere a epocii & # 8211 ; dar , când concursul militar al acestor puteri a lipsit , ei nu au sovait sa stea singuri în fata unui adversar de o coplesitoare superioritate ; au facut-o pentru a-si apara tara lor , dar au avut si constiinta unui mare rost european , asa cum o spune raspicat stefan cel mare în solia sa catre venetia din 1477 : & # 8220 ; nu vreau sa mai spun cât de folositoare este pentru treburile crestine aceasta tara a mea ; socotesc ca este de prisos fiindca lucrul e prea limpede ca ea este cetatea de aparare a tarii unguresti si a poloniei si straja acestor doua craii .
afara de aceasta , fiindca turcul s-a împiedicat de mine , multi crestini au ramas în liniste de patru ani & # 8221 ; .
când soarta armelor nu le-a fost favorabila , ei nu s-au descurajat , asa cum reiese si din inscriptia pusa de acelasi stefan la biserica din razboieni , ridicata în 1496 , acolo unde fusese înfrânt cu douazeci de ani înainte de sultanul mehmed al ii-lea : & # 8220 ; s-a ridicat prea puternicul mahmet , împarat turcesc , cu toate puterile sale rasaritene ; si înca si basarab voievod , numit laiota , a venit cu el , cu toata tara basarabeasca ( tara româneasca , numita astfel dupa dinastia basarabilor & # 8211 ; n.n. ) .
si au venit sa prade si sa ia tara moldovei ; si au ajuns pâna aici , la locul numit valea alba .
iar noi , stefan voievod si cu fiul nostru alexandru , am iesit înaintea lor si am facut mare razboi cu ei , în luna iulie 26 ; si cu voia lui dumnezeu , au fost înfrânti crestinii de pagâni .
si au cazut aici multime mare de osteni ai moldovei .
tot atunci si tatarii au lovit tara moldovei din ceia parte & # 8221 ; .
relatarea atât e obiectiva a unui esec & # 8211 ; sa recunoastem & # 8211 ; este cu totul rara la oamenii politici .
în alte împrejurari se constata o adevarata spaima când este evocata posibilitatea unei confruntari cu poarta otomana .
astfel , în 1658 , când domnul tarii românesti , mihnea al iii-lea ( era grec ! ) , le propune boierilor sa se ridice împotriva imperiului otoman , acestia vadesc o totala lipsa de încredere în victorie : & # 8220 ; doamne , bun lucru ar fi acesta !
iar noi ne temem ca nu vom putea plini desavârsit , ci numai vom zadarî sarpele si ne va înghiti cu totul .
caci noi sântem o tara mica si far de oameni , neputincioasa si far de ajutor de nici o parte .
iar turcii sunt puternici , mari si biruiesc toata lumea , de la rasarit la apus & # 8221 ; .
nimic din curajul lui stefan cel mare !
aceeasi gândire politica , exprimata în termeni similari de unul dintre cei mai vârstnici oameni politici români , în 1914 , theodor rosetti , cumnatul lui cuza voda , care , în consiliul de coroana de la sinaia , convocat pentru a fixa atitudinea româniei în razboiul ce tocmai izbucnise , a spus : & # 8220 ; suntem o tara mica , un biet popor , iesit abia de ieri , de alaltaieri , din greutati si din robie .
nu cred ca sta în putinta noastra sa facem politica mare .
acum cei mari s-au încaierat , noi nu avem ce cauta în luptele lor .
sa stam deci linistiti la o parte , sa ne vedem de nevoile si de necazurile noastre si sa ne caznim sa pastram ceea ce cu atâta truda am agonisit & # 8221 ; .
cine urmareste politica externa a româniei în perioada post-decembrista , constata ca ea este dominata de felul de a gândi al boierilor munteni de la 1658 sau & # 8211 ; pâna la un punct & # 8211 ; al lui theodor rosetti , la 1914 .
întocmai ca si dupa primul razboi mondial , când garantiile de securitate au fost cautate cu precadere în exterior ( franta si anglia , mica întelegere , întelegerea balcanica , alianta româno-polona ) , si astazi , se crede ca garantiile de securitate vin din includerea româniei în nato .
doua observatii sunt aici de facut : 1 ) .
nato din perioada post-comunista , nu mai este nato din perioada razboiului rece ; disparitia amenintarii sovietice a lasat teren liber de manifestare a divergentelor si tensiunilor dintre aliati .
încordarea dintre sua si & # 8220 ; vechea europa & # 8221 ; ( franta , germania ) este o dovada graitoare ; 2 ) .
cine ameninta românia în momentul de fata ?
cu bulgaria si ungaria nu mai avem nici un litigiu teritorial ; ucrainei , tratatul din 1997 i-a dat teritorii românesti , la care probabil , nici nu visa ; rusia nu mai este vecina cu românia .
atunci ? & # 8220 ; noile amenintari & # 8221 ; ?
terorismul ?
în realitate , prin urmarea orbeasca a sua , românia se expune loviturilor teroriste .
retorica propagandei americane vrea sa acrediteze ideea ca , în prezent , are loc o confruntare între lumea civilizata si terorism .
nu este adevarat .
terorismul islamic este o componenta a conflictului din orientul mijlociu , iar ostilitatea sa fata de sua , o consecinta a pozitiei adoptate de sua în acest conflict , pozitie perceputa de fundamentalistii islamici ca antiaraba si antiislamica .
în conditiile unei confruntari asimetrice , partea slaba recurge la mijloace neconventionale de lupta , în speta acte teroriste .
din dorinta de a fi admisi în nato , am sacrificat ucrainei teritorii românesti la care kievul nu avea nici un drept .
atunci , în 1997 , sua s-au opus intrarii româniei în nato .
dupa 11 septembrie 2001 , interesat sa transforme nato într-un simplu instrument al politicii externe a sua si sa-si extinda controlul asupra unui numar cât mai mare de tari , washingtonul si-a aruncat privirile si asupra româniei .
guvernantii de la bucuresti , nesiguri de ei , apasati de banuiala de neo- sau criptocomunism , aveau nevoie de o legitimare din partea serifului mondial , sua .
au alergat în întâmpinarea dorintelor lui cu un servilism de prost gust , care a compromis tara noastra .
în jelania sa , theodor rosetti spunea ca românia nu trebuie sa se amestece în certurile dintre cei mari .
guvernantii nostri , tematori ca si theodor rosetti , n-au mers cu logica fricii pâna la capat : mai simplu spus , & # 8220 ; sa stea în banca lor & # 8221 ; .
nu , în dorinta de a fi pe placul washingtonului si a primului lor vasal , marea britanie , au criticat pozitia rationala a frantei .
ei nu înteleg ca , pentru o tara ca românia , coordonatele securitatii sunt un sistem multipolar sanatos si o institutie care sa impuna respectul legalitatii internationale .
activitatea politica si diplomatica a tarii noastre în ultimul timp pare a voi sa ilustreze afirmatia lui emil cioran : & # 8220 ; a fi român înseamna a fi o fiinta cu multa apa în sânge & # 8221 ; . © 2003 cadran politic · rss · designed by theme junkie · powered by wordpress : : : . : : : . : : : welcome to apanews.net : tv , news , photos it has been choked down everyone 's throat in the public school system and all forms of goverment and everywhere else .
cant you just leave the christian schools and the churches the hell alone ?
" do you think i 'll ever be skinny ? " she asked in that same car ride .
she is 10 .
she is healthy .
she is strong .
she is wicked smart .
and she sat in my car , weeping about her body .
she didn 't say her daughter was morbidly obese .
she said she has a soft round belly .
right on .
when i was a child i was soft and had a belly .
i ate well , didn 't overeat , and while i wasn 't probably as active as your daughter ( i was a bookworm ) , my mom mandated outdoor play and i did ice skating and other activities regularly .
i was tormented by my weight .
i was healthy and smart , but tormented .
my pediatrician told my mother not to worry -- that i would grow and it would be fine .
and when puberty hit at age 12 , he ended up being right .
i never did get to be a rail , but i 'm in my thirties , two kids on , and i 'm a curvy size six with excellent health and no trouble maintaining .
she may not always hear you but one day she will and then she 'll train the world by training her friends .
i was thrilled to see that in france it is now illegal to have little girls ' beauty contests. the ruling said something about how inappropriate it is it sexualize them . so civilized , those french .
my eight year old was lean until kindergarten . i suspect gramma , who watches him after school . i wouldn 't trade their relationship with anything , but my son is eight and weighs 107lbs and is 4 ft 8 . we are doing our best to just keep the healthiest diet we can at home and not say anything to him . he loves recess and pe and is also an avid reader . so far no trouble with cruelty that we know of ... but i fear it is coming .
japan and russia , which now do most of the krill fishing , have perfected equipment for peeling and processing krill rapidly. least you saw khao san--wow ? ? ! ! .
but , the bag taking is getting much the " toy boys " have arrived .
it has a swimming pool and of privacy and our company will act accordingly .
see faqs friday oct 18 , 2013 dar es salaam water and sewerage authority ( dawasa ) is finalising the construction of seven community water boreholes valued at 350m / - a project that is expected to supply the precious liquid to more than 20,000 residents of dar es salaam ’ s suburbs .
the move is aimed at curbing the acute shortage of water in areas where dawasa and dar es salaam water and sewerage co-corporation ( dawasco ) water networks are not available .
bermuda premier welcomes uk and us support for island 's economy provides descriptions and photos of the resorts and the spa facilities of privacy and our company will act accordingly .
see faqssteel picks that are a cut above - barrons.com © 2013 indexmundi - all rights reservedthefts and lost property at bangkok 's suvarnabhumi airport in thailand scams and thefts are nothing new at thailands busy airport but be on the lookout as over the last year there have been many robberies , lost property , thefts and taxi scams and these continue to happen .
following the inside thefts of airport trolleys last year the authorities have beefed up the security at the airport .
however there are foreigners and thais who still ply their trade by trying to take what is not theres so watch out and keep your bags safe .
make sure all your valuables are in a safe place and do not leave cameras , passports , valuables etc in your main bags even in the left luggage-- you risk losing them and theres no comeback .
with the world crises & internal headaches biting into thailands economy there has been an upsurge bank robberies in bangkok and even at suvannabhumbi airport so you are warned to beware .
it is up to you to stay safe but we publish items for the unwary traveller as the airport security can still not get their act together although the govt have taken steps to evict around 400 taxis which is a good sign as at september 2009 .
my dept secretary informed on this .
her cousin was detained in bangkok for stealing a box of cigarettes in a duty-free shop in bangkok international airport .
he had paid for chocolates and a carton of cigarettes .
the cashier put a packet of smokes into his bag and he thought it was a free pack .
he was arrested for shop-lifting and the thai police extortion price was rm30,000 for his release .
he spent two nights in jail and paid rm50 for an air-cond cell , 200-300 baht for each visitor , and rm11,000 for his final release .
now would you belive this scam ? ? ? as it was on tv nation channel 13th august ?
a thai man went in a taxi from the airport in the back of the taxi .
the driver has doctored the aircondition in the car to make the passenger 9 / .
the old saying --- if they speak good english be on alert .
don 't take shortcuts as it may lead to costing you a lot more than you thought .
men in uniform can buys these easy--ask for id and get them to write their name and sight their id number .
yell to get attention but don 't give in ?
here is a link issued by king power that alledgedly shows the lady pocketing a wallet but was not produced until 2 months after .
careful examination one may see how a video may have been changed as its very easy to do to suit the situation after the fact ? http : / / www.kingpower.com / 2009 / index.php 6 / .
the economic crises has seen an upsurge in petty crime , atm muggings and scams so be careful as at 2009 and it seems the government cannot ddo its part to intervene . • invalid entry : please type the verification code again.români în lume | cadran politic în urmă cu un secol , take lo ­ nescu s-a remarcat în ţară şi apoi pe plan european ca o stră ­ lucită personalitate politică .
s-a născut într-o familie modestă , la ploieşti , la 13 / 25 octombrie 1858 .
pe linie ma ­ ternă se trăgea dintre românii bal ­ canici .
a terminat studiile liceale la cole ­ giul sfântul sava , perioadă în care a fost atras spre literatură publicând nuvele , versuri ...
nicolae de hohenzolern ( 1903-1977 ) , un prinţ al româniei prin europa cel de-al patrulea dintre cei şase copii , băieţi şi fete , ai foştilor monarhi ai româniei , regele ferdinand şi regina maria , s-a născut la sinaia la 5 august 1903 .
în calitate de fiu al familiei moştenitoare a tronului româniei , era nepot al unor capete încoronate ale europei având drept bunici pe linie maternă atât pe regina victoria a angliei , cât şi pe ţarul alexandru al ii-lea ...
despre românii moldoveni care locuiesc în rusia sovietică sau mai bine zis în republica autonomă moldovenească , înfiinţată în anul 1924 , ştim deocamdată relativ puţin .
în decursul unui deceniu de existenţă , întinderea teritoriului acestei republici a fost schimbată de mai multe ori şi o dată cu ea s-a modificat , bineînţeles , şi numărul total al populaţiei .
republica moldovenească ...
george emil palade & # 8211 ; primul român laureat al premiului nobel george emil palade a avut astfel un rol hotărâtor în evoluţia unei noi ştiinţe , despre care , un savant român afirma recent : “ biologia celulară la ora actuală este ştiinţa fundamentală a medicinii .
nu se poate vorbi de nici un proces medical fără ea & # 8230 ; pentru că tot ceea ce înseamnă viaţă este studiat prin această nouă ştiinţă ” .
între ierarhii bisericii române din secolul trecut , mitropolitul visarion puiu a fost o perso ­ nalitate deosebită .
s-a născut în oraşul paşcani , în 1879 , şi a murit în exil lân ­ gă paris , în august 1964 .
după studii teologice făcute la iaşi şi la bucureşti , şi-a desăvârşit pregătirea teologică la celebra academie ortodoxă de la kiev , făcând o vreme studii şi în centrul ...
kenya will place microchips in the horn of every rhino in a bid to stamp out a surge in poaching . ( 10 / 18 / 2013 2 : 26 : 23 am ) nairobi – kenya is turning to technology in a bid to save the 1 000 or so rhinos living in that country .
according to a report on al jazeera the kenya wildlife service ( kws ) plans to insert microchips into the horn of every rhino in the country to stamp out the scourge of poaching .
“ poachers [ … ] ( 10 / 17 / 2013 7 : 40 : 47 am ) [ the star ] kenya has changed its approach to the un security council to adopt a new model which has higher chances of attracting a favorable outcome on the deferral of the icc trials . ( 10 / 16 / 2013 10 : 37 : 38 am ) dubbed ’ timka na bodaboda ’ the promo is scheduled to run for 100 days and will see a total of 430 motorbikes being won , with five customers winning one on a daily basis .
as at 2012 all shipments for personal every customer must sign an indemnity form to cover us regarding all shipments .
pallets we can supply and will not accept pallets from customers shipping lcl .
due to drugs etc and contraband we will no longer ship and pack goods and take responsibility if you do not sign our indemnity form .
whenever you export out of thailand we can store for you right in the middle of bangkok near rama iv rd .
easy access off the expressway and chek out out facilitie .
we can load and unload 20-40ft containers or ( fcls ) . of privacy and our company will act accordingly .
see faqs swaziland news headlines [ swazi media ] king mswati iii of swaziland and his family have been likened to an ' organised crime syndicate ' for the way they take money from the swazi people . ( 10 / 18 / 2013 7 : 21 : 48 am ) largest export database classifieds in thailand .
if you want anything let us in our new hardcopy classified news in bangkok , thailand .
post free ads [ classifieds in thailand ] [ read services offered ads ] [ read ads ] for our buy , sell , exchange newspaper read in bangkok , pattaya to with fear growing over the spread of meningitis in rukwa , acting prison commissioner for the sumbawanga prison , job lwesya is requesting the government to provide them with funds for the transfer of inmates to mollo and luanda in mbeya .
the stakeholders raised the concern on tuesday while giving out their views on how to control the outbreak of the disease in a special meeting held at the council hall. bandits , not rebels , but for the people living in the rukoko marshes , the cause richard , whose job is to collect charcoal , is one of very in the desolate landscape of tree stumps undulating away to " they are as poor as i am and have nothing to lose , " the rukoko marshes had warned everyone to vacate the area but nobody took them torched several houses in the area , " says anicet , one of the two other labourers .
on one of the ghost farms , cowpats dry in the sun , a few " the herders got the message and took their cattle to spate of killings were the work of gangs of " unidentified armed bandits " and but since a string of elections kicked off in may with opportunity for burundi to prove its democratic credentials and seal the end of " there is no doubt , the people we saw are not simple thugs , new kalashnikov assault rifles in the rukoko marshes and adjacent kibira forest. officer says as he trundles on through the swampy terrain .
in indiana , like other states , the question now is how bold the new supermajorities will decide to be . indiana house speaker brian bosma isn ’ t ready to commit to income tax cuts , one of the top priorities of mike pence , the state ’ s incoming republican governor .
oregon representative tina kotek is poised to join openly gay lawmakers in colorado and washington as a leader of a state legislative chamber .
the word " aeronomy " was introduced by s. chapman in 1932 .
it indicates the study of the chemical and physical phenomena in the atmosphere of the earth at a height above 30 km .
the extreme dryness of the air causes any heat that is radiated back into the atmosphere to be lost instead of being absorbed by the water vapor in the atmosphere .
the source of this energy is the sun , and because its heating effect is greater at the equator than at the poles , it creates a circulation in the atmosphere .
hot moist air rises over the equator and flows at a high level towards the poles , where it cools and sinks .
the equator is therefore a region of low pressure , and the poles are regions of high pressure .
the atmosphere is not a closed system .
it interacts with the land , the ocean , and the ice ; and the ice in turn interacts with the ocean.winds create currents in the ocean .
the annual cycle of freezing and melting of the sea ice around antarctica creates a vertical circulation in the ocean .
pet of the week : trinity sun apr 15 , 2012 01 : 18 am edt warm weather brings out golfers thu jan 5 , 2012 11 : 18 am est sprucing up dc park fri oct 7 , 2011 7 : 18 pm edt man to prison for 2004 sexual assault thu oct 17 , 2013 5 : 18 pm edt holdrege council oks churches requests thu oct 17 , 2013 5 : 18 pm edt the work of filmmaker darrah allows the viewer to find yourself in paris thu oct 17 , 2013 3 : 18 pm edt new state tax commissioner named thu oct 17 , 2013 1 : 18 pm edt actors nail characters , dialogue in swncta ’ s ’ steel magnolias ’ thu oct 17 , 2013 5 : 18 pm edt tire cleanup planned for november thu oct 17 , 2013 5 : 18 pm edt drug felonies reduced to misdemeanors thu oct 17 , 2013 5 : 18 pm edt t-dap available , so now is the time to get vaccinated wed oct 16 , 2013 1 : 18 pm edt teens attend a trial for student on govtday fri oct 18 , 2013 05 : 18 am edt np man jailed for knife threats thu oct 17 , 2013 05 : 18 am edt cdc back at work to track the flu fri oct 18 , 2013 03 : 18 am edt police handcuff solicitors in west omaha neighborhood thu oct 17 , 2013 11 : 18 pm edt a chilly friday thu oct 17 , 2013 11 : 18 pm edt brownville nuke plant tops us list of violations wed oct 16 , 2013 1 : 18 pm edt not all who cry lord lord will enter in .
be mindful of false teachers in wolfs clothing .
and while you guys are infighting the democratic candidate is redecorating the office ........
womanmarineny : and while you guys are infighting the democratic candidate is why is the economist chortling over the prospect of oil pollution in ...
pan african , giyani gold bid for anglogold namibia mine : paper how to get there : from suvannabhumi airport , bangkok , buses leave all the time for pattaya and cost 173 baht to jomtien or & cost 200 baht to the bus tgerminal on pattaya north rd .
avis offer a limo service for 2,200 or take a train from pattaya to bangkok 33 baht then hop on the overnight to the police can 't or won 't help you if you hire a jet ski then you sink it or turn sharply and it fills up with water .
the motto in thailand " whatever you hire whatever is damaged stolen or lost , you pay " so you hire a bike , or jetski at your own risk .
you can however negotiate a lesser amount which you are nuts if you don 't do but never say you will pay as then the price remians the same or can now go higher .
to hire a jet ski can cost you around 800baht per 1 / 2 hour but in september 2009 they want 1000baht per 1 / 2 hour .
good fun but don 't hit anyone swimming or damage the jetski as it will cost you .
there is no such thing as insurance for jet ski hire so you do so knowing if something goes wrong you pay .
if you blow the motor then its your fault so remember these things if youre game enough to rent one .
for my money stay clear of the damn things & there is a scam at the moment as times are tight at the moment .
as you will find when it happens to you hiring a jetski can be bliss or a nightmare .
many of the jetskis are thrashed by their thai owners and they can be bought second hand at jssr auction for 100,000baht or so .
but most people who hire them are never asked to see a check sheet of damage or any dents rips etc in the coulings etc so once you bring it back the nice ride can turn into a nightmare .
some times the thais will not even let you leave the beach but as you have no money you demand to see a tourist police .
in pattaya they have 2 foreigners on hand at the beach rd police station .
insist on it or send someone to bring them back ?
these jetskis in pattaya & phuket are thrashed and when they start using oil its easy to drain them and let you hire it ? ? ? --guess who pays & the asking price for a a new motor min 77,000baht .
[ pattaya useful tel numbers ] [ pattaya digital film ] [ pattaya english breakfasts ] [ pattaya best food ] [ pattaya tesco , big c ] [ pattaya beach ] [ pattaya tourist handy tips ] [ pattaya beach road ] [ pattaya best restaurants ] [ pattaya buffet dinners ] [ pattaya tesco , big c ] [ pattaya beach ] [ pattaya tourist handy tips ] [ pattaya beach road ] [ pattaya best restaurants ] [ pattaya bars ] [ pattaya jet ski hire scam ] [ pattaya hire cars / bikes ] [ pattaya driving license ] [ pattaya car hire ] [ pattaya motorcycle hire ] [ pattaya pickups & loads ] [ pattaya car / motorcycle reg office ] [ pattaya police & foreign volunteers ] [ pattaya scams ] [ pattaya property scams ] [ buying cars in thailand ] [ buying motorcycles in thailand ] [ pattaya bike week 2009 ] [ bang saen bike week 2008 ] [ fishing news ] [ check out bang saen ] [ more bang saen pics ] congo-k : exclusive news about congo-k with africa intelligence the boss ofkilo goldmines ltd could be forgiven for feeling optimistic .
the dutch ( ... )
diamonds : the banque centrale du congo and belgolaise cleared by magistrate 's court one such member of the family is chayika " sand " wongnapachant , who is part of the premier 's social-media team .
she is the daughter of yaowares , one of prime minister yingluck shinawatra 's older sisters .
dr charit thongprayon , director of suppasit prasong hospital in ubon ratchathani province , said the hospital was preparing facilities & # 8230 ; ' all is lost ' charts the saga of a stoic survivorchristian science monitorat home at sea : robert redford , at his best alonewuncsee all 145 sourcesrelated robert redford the verdict : critics review broadway revival of the winslow boy , starring ... playbill.comreview : masterful rees heads the winslow boybroadway worldin depth : the price of righteousnesswall street journalsee all 35 sourcesrelated the winslow boy derren brown is to perform for six nights at the marlowe theatre in canterbury .
looping the loop , a new festival of contemporary theatre , is taking place in thanet this weekend an innovative new production of as you like it has been created by folkestone theatre company transport controversial indie rocker pete doherty is fighting back and fighting fit for a gig in folkestone lilia martha cisneros muller - realtor in playa del carmen slabs by the square metre in fcl containers anywhere in the world at excellent prices .
we also have our own carvers and can etch anything to four men rescued west of guadeloupe after being lost at sea for six days click here for leafguard of the midland 'sfan page on facebook !
what can 't we have anymore ? zero tolerance in millardreeding at an thurd grad levlbcbs rep talks acacongressman terry 's nice house " obamaville " palestinian ambassador maen areikat while the billboard has drawn a lot of attention , not everyone finds it blasphemous or outrageous .
as chris baker pointed out during one of his shows last week , did you see how easy it was for these law enforcement officials to turn on our nation 's vets , some of them wwii survivors ?
scary. and exporter of pneumatic tools-air grinder , air ratchet wrench , air become a subscriber today to continue enjoying all of the products the spectrum has to offer newslocal newsbusinessdixie statenation & worldnews galleriesstory archiveoutdoorshiking guideexploreoutdoor tipsnational & state parksoutdoor galleriesobituariesplace an obituarymultimediavideosnews galleriessports galleriespeople galleriesoutdoor galleriesthen and now galleriesevent galleriesseasonal galleriesall galleriessend us your photossportsprep sportsoutdoorsgolflifefeaturesentertainmentfaithfamilycelebrationspeople galleriescomicspuzzleshoroscopesopinionblogs while kim has no shadow , his underlings cast strong shadows on their own clothes .
you all can say what you want , the picture is real !
how dare you insult the great helmsman !
the great general can 't be bothered to pose in his own pr pics any more ?
mr. kim has made you examine him in great detail " suckers " come to mind .
he knows how curious we in america are , would you study this wakko this closely if it was say a picture of him waving to a group of people ?
of course it was photoshopped .
they did not do any smoothing of the people in the photo .
it is nothing but a bad copy and paste " the huffington post " is a registered trademark of thehuffingtonpost.com , inc .
all rights reserved.what romanians want | cadran politic © 2012 cadran politic · rss · designed by theme junkie · powered by wordpress fall family weekend at camp sinawa in valders | htrnews.com | manitowoc man-news | htr media bulgaria ’ s air is dirtiest in europe , study finds , followed by poland “ what did she expect to happen at one in the morning after sneaking out ? ” attorney joseph dibenedetto said on shephard smith reports .
“ i ’ m not saying — assuming that these facts are accurate and this did happen — i ’ m not saying she deserved to be raped , but knowing the facts as we do here including what the prosecutor has set forth , this case is going nowhere and it 's going nowhere quick . ” the mortgage interest deduction is one of the largest tax expenditures in the u.s. tax code but the rate at which it is claimed and the average amount deducted vary widely across and within states .
more tullow oil isn ’ t easily put off , and its increasing luck in africa has only encouraged it to keep trying to acquire acreage in countries in the sahel region . ( ... )
the british company has been trying for several months to acquire relinquished acreage in niger ’ s basin , but success has so far eluded it . ( ... )
hama amadou 's decision to take his party , the moden / lumana , out of the new government is the clearest sign yet that he intends to run for president in 2016 . ( ... )
the exclusion of the modem fa lumana party headed by the speaker of niger ’ s parliament , ( ... )
la comida , in fremont east district , adds to the revival vibe of downtown fri oct 18 , 2013 04 : 19 am edt meetings set for wyoming gas plant thu oct 17 , 2013 8 : 41 pm edt lusk bank robbery suspect accused of at least six heists in four states thu oct 17 , 2013 8 : 41 pm edt are you brave enough for the wyoming frontier prison haunted house ?
thu oct 17 , 2013 6 : 41 pm edt interview with congresswoman cynthia lummis thu oct 17 , 2013 10 : 42 pm edt rep lummis on cbs newschannel 5 tonight at 5 : 30 thu oct 17 , 2013 4 : 41 pm edt mw women ’ s basketball preseason honors tue oct 15 , 2013 4 : 41 pm edt lawmakers ok $ 100k for hill investigation wed oct 16 , 2013 08 : 41 am edt hospital unveils a new emergency department tue oct 15 , 2013 08 : 41 am edt cleaning out and catching up wed oct 16 , 2013 12 : 41 am edt broncs offense on fire wed oct 16 , 2013 12 : 41 am edt belly tags will track gros ventre cutties wed oct 9 , 2013 12 : 41 am edt setting the stage wed oct 9 , 2013 12 : 41 am edt man shot to death in edgewater fri oct 18 , 2013 03 : 08 am edt man hit in littleton while walking dogs fri oct 18 , 2013 01 : 08 am edt snow to hit denver overnight fri oct 18 , 2013 01 : 08 am edt snow flurries in the metro overnight fri oct 18 , 2013 01 : 08 am edt man seriously injured in hit-and-run fri oct 18 , 2013 01 : 08 am edt christo says opposition to over the river project is part of the art fri oct 18 , 2013 03 : 08 am edt i had to get to a bathroom , says speeding motorcyclist thu oct 17 , 2013 08 : 18 am edt rockwood to start search for new superintendent fri oct 18 , 2013 12 : 18 am edt political effort aims to get radioactive waste out of bridgeton landfill fri oct 18 , 2013 12 : 18 am edt of privacy and our company will act accordingly .
see faqs san marino news headlines texas gas prices remain low on adequate supply and low demand , aaa says thu oct 17 , 2013 2 : 27 pm edt cibolo to consider making a deal with walmart sat sep 7 , 2013 12 : 27 am edt ’ beautification day ’ to feature crime stats , clean up efforts fri jul 19 , 2013 8 : 27 pm edt sample 40-plus cultures at the folklife festival sun jun 9 , 2013 12 : 27 am edt ’ beautification day ’ to feature crime stats , clean up efforts fri jul 19 , 2013 6 : 27 pm edt fiesta celebration at mission san jos a fitting finale mon apr 29 , 2013 02 : 27 am edt create memories in bastrop sun aug 18 , 2013 8 : 27 pm edt take a trip back in time to smithville sun aug 18 , 2013 8 : 27 pm edt rodriguez , two other incumbents win re-election to hisd board sun aug 18 , 2013 8 : 27 pm edt pasadena , lamar ok bond issues sun aug 18 , 2013 8 : 27 pm edt bexar depty hurt in crash thu oct 17 , 2013 4 : 28 pm edt councilwoman absent from today ’ s meeting-- ...
thu oct 17 , 2013 2 : 27 pm edt so how much do the state ’ s worst ’ toll sco ...
thu oct 17 , 2013 10 : 27 am edt pushback growing to planned alamo gun rally thu oct 17 , 2013 08 : 27 am edt downgrade of sh 130 bonds seen as vindicat ...
thu oct 17 , 2013 06 : 27 am edt code talkers ’ getting their due at instit ...
thu oct 17 , 2013 06 : 27 am edt texas ag abbott kicks off gubernatorial run sun jul 14 , 2013 8 : 27 pm edt manziel leaves mannings ’ football camp a day early sun jul 14 , 2013 8 : 27 pm edt ag abbott set to formally begin gubernatorial run in san antonio today sun jul 14 , 2013 10 : 27 am edt in the abdurahmanov family ’ s flat on the 4th floor of this apartment block in kurgan-tube , simply turning the water tap is a pleasure . out comes clean , drinkable water .
muhammadjon abdurahmanov lives here with his parents , and he likes the change .
“ the problem with the water is over .
now i can wash my hands , take a shower , get on with my life faster , ” he says .
rakhmatullaev said the decision was made at the request of the health minister .
" praying the mass anew " bulletin catchesis series on the roman missal , third edition © 2013 indexmundi - all rights reservedbook online with discounts for the top hotels and the best and cheapest guest houses in chiangmai thailand meals ..
rates : single 1,300 baht per night to 3,900 baht bouble 1,000 baht per to us as we know of many vacancies in thailand .
benga and killed a man and two women in cold blood , " pontien barutwanayo , a to the army two months ago two armed men who were hiding on their property .
the isale is part of bujumbura rural province , a stronghold of in a separate incident in gitega province two policemen on " there was an exchange of fire and one of the policemen was was " deeply concerned about signs of a returning climate of impunity , the the us spent billions in kyrgyzstan , but is leaving without a trace the evolution of north dakota ’ s fund says as much about the state ’ s nordic heritage as it does its status as the nation ’ s second-ranked oil-producing state .
a third of north dakota ’ s residents are of norwegian descent , the highest percentage of any state , and norway is one of the world ’ s top oil and gas producing countries .
lokayukta seeks review of decision by prez on ' caution ' to dikshit kudos to you petra !
may you never , ever change how you feel . wonderfully written article .
who knew my refusal to shave pubic hair was subversive .
if it takes so little to make a political statement , it seems to me that it 's requiring too much to conform to expectations .
with the onset of world war ii he returned to active service and earned two decorations as the chief of naval operations .
the world of visible wifithe world of visible wifithe world of visible wifithe world of visible wifithe world of visible wifi search for six americans and a briton lost in the tasman sea was called off in july but new grainy image emerges of what appears to be a vessel west of norfolk island ( 10 / 15 / 2013 10 : 33 : 02 pm ) © 2013 indexmundi - all rights reservedanswers to frequently asked questions : | the spectrum | thespectrum.com © 2013 indexmundi - all rights reservedmlp boom or bust ? - barrons.com to exporters list ] [ container cost ] [ shipping to usa ] [ shipping personal items ] [ shipping cars ] [ shipping agent ] [ buddha images & food ] [ tariffs ] [ letter of credit ] [ fine arts license ] jess wilson jess can typically be found at a diary of a mom , where she writes about her life with her husband luau * and their two beautiful daughters , brooke * , who is 10 and is autistic , beautiful , and funny as all get out , and katie * , who is 12 and has been diagnosed by her mother with a case of typical tweendom and a heart the size of montana .
i have a confession .
ready ?
i 'm not mad at disney .
yeah , that was it .
you see , i have a daughter on the autism spectrum and a lot of my fellow autism community members are pretty seriously pissed off at the disney corporation right now .
and they want me to be ... * * brooke is on her third trip back to our table from the restaurant 's tiny toy room .
a pattern has emerged .
she carries a giraffe figurine in one hand and two puzzle pieces in the other .
the puzzle pieces fit together -- a small giraffe and a bigger ...
on my blog , a diary of a mom , i recently wrote the story of a concurrently heartwarming and heartbreaking interaction between my 10-year-old daughter and a homeless woman who was huddled in front of the church of the covenant on newbury street in boston .
in that post i ...
to those who know what it means to be reborn a mother who is jim demint going to back .. people that are willing to see america burned to the ground ?
and here i thought al qaeda was the enemy ... admin001 : " the endorsement of matt bevin escalates the effort by outside it is fair to say jim demint is officially the leader of goteap .
" the huffington post " is a registered trademark of thehuffingtonpost.com , inc .
all rights reserved . loading yourself a monthly salary which , if you are the director , will be can be reduced but it is up to bangkok immigration who will determine this a few months .
consideration is undertaken at the immigration bureau in bangkok or the province of the company 's principal place of business .
you are granted a unfortunately , denial of a visa extension cannot be formally appealed by an expiration of the temporary visa .
an application can be resubmitted after the applicant has remedied the areas of the application , which the immigration long stayers but you can only apply for the new retired visa outside the country .
the age is 50 years and you cannot apply in thailand although we have you come to thailand as you cannot obtain a retirement visa using a tourist you need 65,000 baht a month or 800,000 baht in cash in the bank here , no allow senior citizens to live for an extended time if they invest in a condo or this .
there is no " minimum income " like there is for a retirement tax and business statements assume you are employed in thailand ) : applicant has no criminal record in his or her overseas domicile .
this most tourism visas are issued on arrival at don muang airport for tourists but always use the thai embassy near you to apply for a longer with little or zero notice so please ask us for up-to-date info .
what may be the case for one person may be totally opposite for another person .
for law services bangkok .
on applying , a guarantee is required in any form , deemed proper , by the paymentpayments were due may 24 .
please bring any payments owed to d-week .
those who had not paid in full by may 24 owe an additional $ 10 for a total of $ 225 .
go to http : / / tinyurl.com / duluthdweekformsfor a packing list .
we have listed " what to why did the gop miscalculate so badly in the shutdown battle ?
gop desperate to defund obamacare now because they know its popularity is about to skyrocket i began my work in politics and the progressive movement working for civil rights and the end of the vietnam war in the 1960s .
and i worked hard to end one of the greatest foreign policy outrages of my lifetime -- the war in iraq . i believe that u.s ....
is there a difference between a third world autocrat and a wall street mogul ?
why the gop is running into a political box canyon -- and political marginality why attempts to obstruct gun violence bill will damage the gop the big lie in american politics today is that " america is broke " or " in this time of austerity we have to tighten our belts . "
america is not broke .
we are not in a time of " scarcity " and when we buy into this fallacy , we contribute to political decisions that actually ...
the verdict is in : gop austerity proposals are toxic for our economy pourquoi george bush n 'a pas fait campagne pour romney ?
why the long primary slog is so much worse for gop in 2012 than for democrats in 2008 why rising gas prices could backfire on the gop in november why the war on birth control is a political disaster for the gop why gop collapse on the payroll tax could be a turning point moment the iraq war is over ...
lesson for progressives : yes we can .
democrats refuse to buckle to gop demands for huge cuts in social security , medicare and medicaid mayors who attempt to end occupy protests are on the wrong side of history why the united states is not greece or italy -- and shouldn 't act like it three reasons why it 's better for the economy if the super-committee fails to get a deal what do the earthquake , infrastructure and antiquated accounting have to do with jobs ?
gop willing to create economic catastrophe to protect tax loopholes for ceo 's who fly corporate jets chris noth made women swoon as the resident heartbreaker on " sex and the city , " but before the franchise made the leap to the big screen , the actor was taking his character 's nickname of mr. big a little too seriously .
captech opens new delivery center ; could add up to 100 new jobs fri oct 18 , 2013 01 : 28 am edt new runway to start easing delays at ohare fri oct 18 , 2013 01 : 28 am edt biz to go : nest labs tries to smarten up smoke detectors fri oct 18 , 2013 01 : 28 am edt inside colonial heights ’ new courthouse thu oct 17 , 2013 7 : 28 pm edt car crashes into sandston library thu oct 17 , 2013 1 : 28 pm edt manakin fire station in need of repair thu oct 17 , 2013 1 : 28 pm edt can you help save the next girl ?
fri oct 18 , 2013 01 : 28 am edt police find fetus in suspected shoplifters bag at victorias secret thu oct 17 , 2013 7 : 28 pm edt no timetable to build new east end high school thu oct 17 , 2013 7 : 28 pm edt vcu ’ s ibeh excels despite blindness fri oct 18 , 2013 01 : 28 am edt no one can predict whether or when terrorists are set to stage an attack at our soccer stadiums , but we should not wait until that happens .
if there is any attack at a soccer stadium or public gathering in the country , we should not think it is a plan hatched for a day or two .
terrorist attacks are always surprise incidents and can wreak havoc any where at the most unexpected of times .
church document linksworldwide marriage encounterfor your marriageretrouvaillecatholic familylandthe integrated catholic life : a catholic e-magazine about integrating faith , family & workbirthrightproject rachel ( hope after abortion ) faith & family : the magazine of catholic livingewtn kidschristopher west 's websitetheology of the body institutetheology of the bodyinternational alliancetheology of the body for teenstheology of the bodytheology of the body for teens leadeship trainingone more soul workers back on job as shutdown ends thu oct 17 , 2013 10 : 12 pm edt three plead guilty in tax sale scheme thu oct 17 , 2013 10 : 12 pm edt man ’ s death ruled homicide at inquest thu oct 17 , 2013 10 : 12 am edt man gets probation in alton church arson thu oct 17 , 2013 10 : 12 am edt airport second home for blimps thu oct 17 , 2013 08 : 12 am edt cahokia woman pleads guilty to medicaid fraud thu oct 17 , 2013 8 : 12 pm edt columbia man pleads guilty to failure to register as sex offender thu oct 17 , 2013 8 : 12 pm edt harrisburg bank robbed at gunpoint fri oct 18 , 2013 02 : 12 am edt nuisance home demolished in philo fri oct 18 , 2013 12 : 12 am edt coroner tentatively identifies man whose body was found in champaign thu oct 17 , 2013 8 : 12 pm edt no foul play in death of man at walmart wed jul 24 , 2013 2 : 12 pm edt red line to reopen on south side sunday fri oct 18 , 2013 12 : 12 am edt red line to reopen on south side this weekend thu oct 17 , 2013 6 : 12 pm edt red line to reopen on south side sunday fri oct 18 , 2013 02 : 12 am edt maxine and charles lange thu oct 17 , 2013 10 : 12 pm edt cps changing its promotion policy thu oct 17 , 2013 10 : 12 pm edt bp oil refinery waste piles up on southeast side thu oct 17 , 2013 10 : 12 pm edt expert picks : wont be easy , but bears top redskins fri oct 18 , 2013 06 : 12 am edt mom calls on twitter to reveal identities of social media bullies fri oct 18 , 2013 12 : 12 am edt joniaks journal : briggs a linebacking mentor to bostic thu oct 17 , 2013 10 : 12 pm edt man shot , killed by chicago police officer in bridgeport fri oct 18 , 2013 06 : 12 am edt baby dolphin born at brookfield zoo fri oct 18 , 2013 12 : 12 am edt officers shoot , kill knife-wielding man in bridgeport fri oct 18 , 2013 06 : 12 am edt blues knock off blackhawks 3-2 in shootout fri oct 18 , 2013 12 : 12 am edt quinn halts uno funding yet again thu oct 17 , 2013 10 : 12 pm edt illinois politicians react to end of shutdown thu oct 17 , 2013 10 : 12 pm edt house fire sends one firefighter to the hospital thu oct 17 , 2013 6 : 12 pm edt two arrested for fondling girl thu oct 17 , 2013 4 : 12 pm edt scammers trying to get bank card information thu oct 17 , 2013 4 : 12 pm edt openline : glitches not amusing fri oct 18 , 2013 12 : 12 am edt dominicks : from pioneer to passe thu oct 17 , 2013 10 : 12 pm edt quick news : new lenox getting splash pad thu oct 17 , 2013 10 : 12 pm edt police : womans body found in des plaines river thu oct 17 , 2013 6 : 12 pm edt peoria county courtrooms embracing new technologies fri oct 18 , 2013 12 : 12 am edt heights ’ sign of the times fri oct 18 , 2013 12 : 12 am edt car of gulleys wife struck by two bullets fri oct 18 , 2013 12 : 12 am edt kohlbuss ousted as executive director fri oct 18 , 2013 12 : 12 am edt two people shot in south peoria fri oct 18 , 2013 12 : 12 am edt manhunt underway in ralls county thu oct 17 , 2013 10 : 12 pm edt mcclelland newest dnr fisheries biologist fri oct 18 , 2013 12 : 12 am edt the french examining magistrate emmanuelle ducos questioned hicham ibni oumar and mohamed ibni oumar saleh in paris on july 18 concerning a complaint they filed last year for “ kidnapping ( ... )
the certification group veritas is seeking to set up operations in n ’ djamena to control oil products from the djermaya refinery . ( ... )
chad president idriss deby has just formed a new government with a lot of newcomers ( ... ) for tourists .
any other visa like non immigrant you need to get in your own so please ask us for up-to-date info .
for law services & [ [ cambodia visas ] [ visa news ] [ marriage & visa ] [ visa of privacy and our company will act accordingly .
see faqs el huffington post : última hora , noticias y opinión en español ¿ usas un dispositivo móvil ?
dirígete a m.aol.com / para recibir las noticias de el huffpost para móviles ..
bárcenas se reafirma en el juicio en el que comparece tras la demanda de cospedal ...
la secretaria general niega haber recibido 15.000 euros en dos pagos y asegura que no le consta ningún pago en ' b ' en el pp la guerra civil en el partido republicano y sus consecuencias el partido republicano ha arriesgado y ha perdido mucho estas últimas semanas y al final no ha ganado nada .
a pesar de sus implicaciones internacionales , la lucha por el cierre administrativo y posible suspensión de pagos no ha sido entre demócratas y republicanos ni entre obama y boehner , sino una lucha interna del partido republicano entre los representantes financiados por el tea party y los que reciben fondos de wall street .
este verano estaba cansada , cansadísima .
solo tenía una semana de vacaciones , así que hice lo único razonable : dejar de quejarme e intentar hackear mi mente .
necesitaba estar presente y concentrada en mis vacaciones .
tenía que deshacerme de todas las pantallas .
no alimentemos falsas fantasías .
la fantasía de controlar los efectos de la tecnología sobre nosotros , aburre .
estimula mucho mejor dejar a la tecnología estimularnos , movernos más allá de lo pensado , sacarnos nuestras pasiones y ponerlas al sol y al descubierto ; empujarnos a ser los que somos .
taleb sostiene que puesto que la economía es incapaz de proporcionar respuestas claras y únicas o recetas científicas para afrontar las crisis los responsables políticos deberían ser mucho más humildes , admitir su ignorancia y abordar los problemas económicos mediante reglas heurísticas .
¿ el café acorta la vida ?
¿ los empleados públicos están mejor pagados que los privados ?
¿ las amas de casa son más conservadoras y católicas que las mujeres trabajadoras ?
preguntas como estas suelen ser mucho más difíciles de responder de lo que puede parecer a primera vista .
catedrático de fisiología humana , universidad complutense de madrid y catedrático adscrito de fisiología molecular y biofísica , universidad de iowa quienes han hecho mucho dinero trabajando , debieran expresar agradecimiento con el auspicio económico de una cátedra en la universidad o financiando un nuevo pabellón en un hospital de niños .
y si no tenemos dinero , hagámoslo fregando platos o cortando el césped en el parterre que rodea lo que fue tu colegio .
muchas adolescentes han cogido la costumbre de hacerse fotos con miradas , boca y gestos insinuantes , provocativos y cargados de contenido erótico y sexual .
los peligros asociados son muchos y la escala de valores con la que se están educando no les ayuda a convertirse en personas de bien .
la mujer de bárcenas : " estoy muy orgullosa de mi marido " gtres vídeo : cospedal casi se ' come ' un árbol a la salida del juzgadoyoutubepopular " vendo riñón por necesidad económica " la ont denuncia la proliferación de anuncios de venta de órganos de la " censura " de la iglesia al vandalismo contra esta exposición " cambiar la ley de matrimonio es más grave que cambiar a república " efe vidal-quadras carga contra rajoy y no descarta fundar otro partidovidal quadrasel sector crítico del pp habla : reforma del aborto y derogar la ley de memoria el presentador de los goya promete " pullitas y parodias " ( fotos ) gtres por qué cambié mi iphone por un nokia de 20 eurosnokia este cráneo cuestiona la teoría evolutiva de los humanos ( foto ) gtres " ¿ qué dices ?
¡ que te fagorices ! " y otros 12 anuncios viejunos de fagoryoutube " ¿ ikea o death metal ? " y otras 6 webs para reírse un ratoikeaordeath bank of america contemplates no overdraft checking account fri oct 18 , 2013 02 : 07 am edt bob parsons buys scottsdale pr firm martz agency thu oct 17 , 2013 8 : 07 pm edt dry needling stirs debate between acupuncturists and physical therapists fri oct 18 , 2013 02 : 07 am edt phoenix lawyer disbarred for stealing clients ’ money thu oct 17 , 2013 10 : 07 pm edt toddler at mesa school found restrained to bed thu oct 17 , 2013 10 : 07 pm edt phoenix homes evacuated due to gas leak thu oct 17 , 2013 8 : 07 pm edt david cavazos discusses his reasons for leaving thu oct 17 , 2013 12 : 07 pm edt woman sought in connection to bank robberies in mesa , ahwatukee wed oct 16 , 2013 8 : 07 pm edt phoenix to vote today on repealing part of food tax early wed oct 16 , 2013 4 : 07 pm edt on chandler hamilton volleyball team , underclassmen overachieving thu oct 17 , 2013 6 : 07 pm edt man accused of kicking ex-girlfriend in face at chandler qt wed oct 16 , 2013 8 : 07 pm edt chandler spa seeks deserving women for free makeover tue oct 15 , 2013 4 : 07 pm edt kiddie kloset us in gilbert turns to special sale to hang on thu oct 17 , 2013 8 : 07 pm edt tempe yarn and fiber has plan for expansion in se valley thu oct 17 , 2013 2 : 07 pm edt cards provide captioning for deaf at stadium thu oct 17 , 2013 2 : 07 pm edt dna helps id man suspected of firing at phoenix officer wed oct 17 , 2012 10 : 07 pm edt peoria ’ s historical homes and buildings wed oct 16 , 2013 4 : 07 pm edt coyote landing condos luring canadian , midwestern buyers thu oct 17 , 2013 4 : 07 pm edt tempe yarn and fiber has plan for expansion in se valley thu oct 17 , 2013 4 : 07 pm edt column : ponderosa ii is much like famous tv abode wed oct 16 , 2013 4 : 07 pm edt two women sought in pinal home invasion wed oct 16 , 2013 2 : 07 pm edt one dead in two-vehicle scottsdale accident thu oct 17 , 2013 10 : 07 pm edt body of man found by road in phoenix thu oct 17 , 2013 4 : 07 pm edt tempe yarn and fiber has plan for expansion in se valley thu oct 17 , 2013 12 : 07 pm edt grant-funded projects beautify tempe neighborhoods mon oct 14 , 2013 2 : 07 pm edt © 2013 indexmundi - all rights reservedbeverage exporters in thailand vocations and priestly formation > consecrated life for womenmeet our women religious it could be 2-0 !
the italians are affording armenia too much space in the midfield and mrktchyan has time to line up a shot from outside the box which he disappointingly blazes over . ( 10 / 15 / 2013 3 : 03 : 09 pm ) will be talking about six decades in showbusiness in a one-woman their new album at a one-off gig in the county. will be performing the group 's seminal album all mod cons in its there 's also all our regular features such as fun club and the visit our events , fetes and fairs section to see which event is closest to you .
don 't miss out on all the bargains !
placemat for use in the community meal , or for families it would be something of an understatement to say that mickael antoine-curier has been around a bit . ( 10 / 12 / 2013 10 : 50 : 30 pm ) that ’ s good news for californians and for the obama administration .
how much can consumers expect to pay for individual coverage ?
in 1914 sir ernest shackleton and a crew of 27 set sail for the last unclaimed prize in the history of exploration : the first crossing on foot of the antarctic continent. infringement of privacy and our company will act accordingly .
seeenglish | cadran politic tiberius puiu is a journalist and a translator , a member of the romanian society of balkan and slavic studies and of the association of scandinavian and baltic studies .
he published a book on “ ukraine and the ukrainians , ” which gives an objective account of the history of ukraine and tackles the issue of the holodomor , the great famine of 1933 .
he was awarded an honorary diploma by the ukrainian ...
deputy constantin niţă , do you think re-establishing a ministry for smes would be a useful idea ?
towcester neighbourhood watch will be distributing a new fridge magnet and leaflet to highlight the new police non-emergency number , 101 .
shutdown furloughs are no vacation for texas families without paychecks city oks rules for retail pot sales wed oct 16 , 2013 07 : 08 am edt news in brief wed oct 16 , 2013 07 : 08 am edt alleged gun buyer in clements case due in court tue apr 30 , 2013 11 : 08 am edt large house fire breaks out in elbert thu oct 17 , 2013 9 : 08 pm edt powderhorn road gets a face-lift fri oct 18 , 2013 01 : 08 am edt a warmer winter awaits fri oct 18 , 2013 01 : 08 am edt skateboarder hits oncoming car in crosswalk thu oct 17 , 2013 9 : 08 pm edt roundabouts on the horizon fri oct 18 , 2013 03 : 08 am edt grocery empire : prinster brothers put city market on map thu oct 17 , 2013 03 : 08 am edt vms soccer breaks out the orange fri oct 18 , 2013 03 : 08 am edt huskies conquer slope yet again fri oct 18 , 2013 01 : 08 am edt funding for underpass in vail provided by state thu oct 17 , 2013 11 : 08 pm edt state to fund vail underpass thu oct 17 , 2013 9 : 08 pm edt rethinking ' grid ' resilience : are we gold plating the electric grid ?
new ramp on track fri oct 18 , 2013 02 : 10 am edt job fair in daytona planned for nov . thu oct 17 , 2013 10 : 10 pm edt deland to host indie market on sunday thu oct 17 , 2013 8 : 10 pm edt are tesla shares overvalued -- or undervalued ?
fri oct 18 , 2013 02 : 10 am edt zimmerman ’ s lawyer to speak at viera event fri oct 18 , 2013 02 : 10 am edt bad weather squashes this year ’ s pumpkin crop fri oct 18 , 2013 02 : 10 am edt mom of man killed on eau gallie bridge plans lawsuit fri oct 18 , 2013 02 : 10 am edt furloughed workers ’ glad to be back ’ fri oct 18 , 2013 02 : 10 am edt relatives arrested in store thefts thu oct 17 , 2013 4 : 10 pm edt a scary good weekend ahead for ocala thu oct 17 , 2013 2 : 10 pm edt biketoberfest kicks off in daytona fri oct 18 , 2013 06 : 10 am edt biketoberfest kicks off in daytona beach fri oct 18 , 2013 02 : 10 am edt escaped prisoner ’ s victim speaks out fri oct 18 , 2013 12 : 10 am edt cdc back at work to track the flu fri oct 18 , 2013 02 : 10 am edt cars at autotrader fri oct 18 , 2013 06 : 10 am edt sweet profits for addictive ’ candy crush saga ’ game fri oct 18 , 2013 12 : 10 am edt longest-serving florida congressman gravely ill thu oct 17 , 2013 8 : 10 pm edt todashev friend deported from us thu oct 17 , 2013 8 : 10 pm edt ’ hiccup girl ’ denied new trial in pinellas county thu oct 17 , 2013 8 : 10 pm edt why dr. hakim is a good fit as orlando health ’ s interim ceo thu oct 17 , 2013 4 : 10 pm edt exclusive : analyst speculates on darden selling its real estate thu oct 17 , 2013 12 : 10 pm edt duo get prison for $ 3m elder swindle thu oct 17 , 2013 8 : 10 pm edt there ’ s a few new kids on the block thu oct 17 , 2013 12 : 10 pm edt ucf grad ’ s idea could rev up consumer batteries wed oct 16 , 2013 8 : 10 pm edt ’ glow with the show ’ debuts at hollywood studios wed oct 16 , 2013 6 : 10 pm edt lakeside chamber players to give a nod to halloween in mount dora performance thu oct 17 , 2013 02 : 10 am edt outside the box troupe opens ’ the bad seed ’ in montverde thu oct 17 , 2013 02 : 10 am edt agreement reached on pay raises for lake ’ s 2,800 teachers thu oct 17 , 2013 02 : 10 am edt christian film ’ a letter for joe ’ to premiere in mount dora wed oct 16 , 2013 8 : 10 pm edt crimeline offers $ 19k reward for help in solving elderly woman ’ s slaying sat oct 12 , 2013 12 : 10 am edt ocoee community ’ s dilemma : cut down oaks that uproot sidewalks ?
wed oct 9 , 2013 12 : 10 pm edt sex predator turns himself in after cutting off gps wed oct 16 , 2013 12 : 10 pm edt sex predator on the loose after cutting off gps wed oct 16 , 2013 12 : 10 am edt osceola man-rearrested on child-porn , lewdness charges tue oct 15 , 2013 02 : 10 am edt wekiva island set to open after fire wed oct 16 , 2013 8 : 10 pm edt caf italiano chicken piccata wed oct 16 , 2013 4 : 10 pm edt © 2013 indexmundi - all rights reservedagriculture producers and manufacturers in asia and thailand the governor-general , lt gen the rt hon sir jerry mateparae , will present the badge of the general fono of tokelau to the ulu-o-tokelau , aliki faipule salesio lui , at a ceremony at government house wellington on monday 7 october at 3pm .
the badge , approved by the college of arms in london and hm the queen of new zealand , depicts the national symbol of tokelau , the tuluma ( a uniquely tokelauan ... ( 10 / 3 / 2013 5 : 30 : 56 pm ) gov-gen to present badge of the general fono of tokelau the governor-general , lt gen the rt hon sir jerry mateparae , will present the badge of the general fono of tokelau to the ulu-o-tokelau , aliki faipule salesio lui , at a ceremony at government house wellington on monday 7 october at 3pm . ( 10 / 3 / 2013 7 : 15 : 22 pm ) pasefika proud community awards , nga vaka o kaiga tapu plan in projects throughout the county - not only leading to a healthier trekking out to the countryside - it can begin at home , even with a aspokesman said : " kwt aims to encourage people of all ages and abilities to get outdoors and reap the health benefits that the wildlife trust has also campaigned for a white paper on the over half of uruguayans are not interested in politics : poll university of delaware 's $ 132m lab a ' temple of the future ' could the former home of the designer of the world ’ s first christmas card be just the place for you ?
new york man arrested on terrorism chargeskdvr.comfeds : ny man arrested for attempting to join al qaeda in the arabian peninsulacbs newssee all 32 sourcesrelated al-qaeda pakistan to counter terrorism via new special forcenews tribeenergy crises , terrorism to end in pml-n term : pmthe nationin depth : delhi takes a lonely road on pakistanasia times onlinesee all 60 sourcesrelated nawaz sharif • invalid entry : please type the verification code again.revoluția din decembrie  89 : pacatul originar , sacrificiul fondator & # 8211 ; emil constantinescu | cadran politic home vitrina cu cărți revoluția din decembrie  89 : pacatul originar , sacrificiul fondator & # 8211 ; emil constantinescu  nu am pretentia ca sunt detinatorul unui adevar politic , juridic sau istoric incontestabil , si sunt gata sa discut si sa accept orice documente , fapte sau marturii care pot lumina mai bine sau chiar altfel realitatea .
educatia mea stiintifica si religioasa m-a ajutat sa cercetez faptele în mod obiectiv , eliberat de ura sau intoleranta .
recunosc însa o anume încrâncenare în ceea ce am scris venita din durerea unui om care a trait în miezul evenimentelor si se simte lovit de acceptarea cinica a crimelor , abuzurilor , coruptiei si minciunii , sau de indiferenta la fel de cinica cu care sunt înca privite de catre o mare parte a societatii românesti & # 8230 ; .
am scris aceste carti de pe pozitia victimelor mintite sau speriate , care nu-si cunosc sau nu-si pot apara drepturile .
le-am scris de pe pozitia milioanelor de români cinstiti care cred în adevar , în dreptate si în demnitate .  emil constantinescu « previousa fi musulman .
islam , pace şi democratie & # 8211 ; alteţa sa regală prinţul el hassan bin talal next aleksandr dugin & # 8211 ; „ russia strongly reject any presence of usa navy in the blacksea ” he said in a world where alternative energy sources are all the rage ; tanzanian venture has taken up the task of using the great natural resource that is the sun to light up people ’ s lives .
camenzuli hopes to expand the business through micro franchising and leveraging on the existing distribution networks .
tullow oil is expected in august to name a ghanaian to run its local subsidiary ( ... ) immigrant visas ] [ work permits ] [ visa to iran : hassan rohani appelle au dialogue avec les occidentaux le nouveau président élu en juin dernier , et qui prêtait serment ce dimanche après-midi 4 août , a déclaré que la seule façon de communiquer avec son pays était le dialogue et non les sanctions .
il faisait référence aux sanctions économiques infligées à l 'iran depuis que la république a lancé son programme nucléaire controversé .
un message bien accueilli par les etats-unis , un des il y a eu comme un regain de chaleur entre les deux etats .
washington ne pouvait évidemment pas envoyer de représentant étant donné l 'absence de mais pour la maison blanche , & bdquo ; l 'investiture de rohani représente une chance pour l 'iran d 'agir rapidement pour calmer les inquiétudes sur son programme nucléaire « .
washington assure aussi qu 'il serait un partenaire de bonne volonté si le nouveau gouvernement choisissait de répondre à ses obligations internationales .
autrement dit , si l 'iran se montrait plus transparent sur le dans son discours devant les députés , hassan rohani a appelé au dialogue & bdquo ; sur un pied d 'égalité « et dans & bdquo ; le respect mutuel pour faire baisser les hostilités « .
et cela après huit ans de tension avec ahmadinejad . & bdquo ; on ne peut pas contraindre le peuple iranien à abdiquer par des sanctions et des menaces de guerre , a déclaré le président iranien .
un peuple qui , par sa solidarité nationale .
la seule solution pour entretenir des relations avec bilatérale et l ’ abandon des hostilités .
je le dis clairement : si vous voulez une réponse appropriée , n 'utilisez pas le langage des sanctions , mais plutôt un signe qui ne trompe pas : au poste clé de ministre des affaires étrangères , rohani a nommé mohamed javad zarif , ancien diplomate à l 'onu , bien connu des le nouveau président a dit le caractère futile des sanctions sans précédent qui étranglent l 'économie du pays .
le président iranien a ajouté que l ’ iran n ’ a jamais cherché la guerre avec le monde , une manière de rassurer israël qui accuse téhéran de chercher à fabriquer l ’ arme atomique pour l ’ attaquer .
enfin , il a voulu rassurer les pays arabes du golfe persique en affirmant que l ’ iran ne cherchait pas à changer le régime politique et les frontières des pays la présidence américaine a félicité le peuple iranien & bdquo ; pour avoir fait entendre sa voix « et a souligné enfin que & bdquo ; rohani avait bien compris son climate change may be to blame for disappearance of antarctic silverfish once upon a time , as the story goes , antarctic silverfish swam by the thousands in places like arthur harbor at the northern end of the peninsula .
like other parts of the polar food web ãƒâ ¢ € ã ¢ € â  such as adélie penguins and shrimp-like krill ãƒâ ¢ € ã ¢ € â  the silverfish rely on sea ice for parts of their lifecycle .
for example , the sea ice offers cover when the eggs hatch in november , torres noted .
ãƒâ ¢ € ã … â € œit tells me that the population isnãƒâ ¢ € ã ¢ â € žâ ¢ t getting any new recruits , ãƒâ ¢ € ã ‚ â  he said .
ãƒâ ¢ € ã … â € œwhat weãƒâ ¢ € ã ¢ â € žâ ¢ re looking at is a population that is not a healthy one.ãƒâ ¢ € ã ‚ â  the researchers are keenly interested in figuring out where the charcot and avian silverfish populations come from .
that job largely falls to julian ashford , a professor of oceanography at old dominion university .
ãƒâ ¢ € ã … â € œit may be that similar events are driving the pleuragramma , ãƒâ ¢ € ã ‚ â  ashford noted .
ãƒâ ¢ € ã … â € œwhen this fish is missing from the smorgasbord for penguins and other seabirds , [ the predators ] tend to decline in numbers , ãƒâ ¢ € ã ‚ â  he said .
ãƒâ ¢ € ã … â € œthe silverfish is the only antarctic coastal pelagic fish that is accessible to all predators .
it is extremely important.ãƒâ ¢ € ã ‚ â  two bahamians rescued by us coast guard after drifting for eight days at sea baby car seats all new and many models. see web site : http : / / www.geocities.com / child _ safety _ products / index.html african union peacekeepers in somalia patrol in a tank as control only parts of mogadishu .
the spokesperson for the ugandan people ’ s the addition of the 4,000 amisom troops meets a december request by the un security council to bring the force to 12,000 soldiers .
a far short of the 20,000 the african union estimated to be necessary at the start yoweri museveni to provide the remaining troops if supported by the available , then uganda is ready to do so because we have the will and the particularly ghana and nigeria , to commit to earlier pledges of troops for the to create an islamic state on the horn of africa .
man hijacks school bus in jacksonvillethursday morning incident ended in cabot.read more .. 7 commentsrelated linksschool bus hijacking ends in cabotbus hijacking sec women 's basketball tournament back to verizonoaklawn ready for breeder 's cup simulcastred wolves have 10 on midseason all sbc teammeet the trojans set for november 4th new sevenoaks skipper ollie robinson says the early signs are promising but he is refusing to get too carried away ahead of the new rugby ...
holmesdale fired on all cylinders for the last game of their 2013 season , convincingly beating old elthamians to finish sixth in the kent ...
i learned about venture capital thanks to the insights of fred wilson , and got my first look at the world of digital marketing thanks to edelman ’ s steve rubel .
charlene li of forrester research was unknowingly my mentor in the realm of web trends .
this advice instilled in me a great sense of confidence , and despite the fact that sometimes i was a little nervous , i stepped out and did what i wanted to do when i wanted to do it .
i think it really often is up to the parents to help build confidence in their children .
it is a very necessary part of growing up . "
source : < a href = " http : / / www.linkedin.com / today / se / bestadvice " > linkedin < / a > ' feed the eagles and starve the turkeys ' --nilofer merchant , founder of rubicon consulting " when i was 20-something ...
i walked into my boss ’ s office , the division leader ...
i told him that i felt like on any given day i was facing a tsunami of things i could pay attention to , and there was no way i could work any harder to make stuff happen .
i was asking for more resources , as the answer .
and he sat me down as he might one of his many kids and gave me this advice : feed the eagles and starve the turkeys .
clint had a rule of thirds for happiness in life .
he told me to ask three questions : are you happy with your job ?
are you happy where you live ?
are you happy who you ’ re with ( depending on your circumstances that could mean friends , spouse , partner , etc ) .
if you answer yes to at least two out of three , you found your spot for the moment .
if not , you need to make a change to one of them . "
the most fundamental commitment you have to make as a leader is to humbly listen to the input of others , take it seriously , and work to improve .
again , it sounds simple , but it ’ s not easy .
leadership , as marshall always says , is a contact sport , and one has to constantly ask for and respond to advice from colleagues so you can improve . "
" you are going to lose a lot !
a lot !
get used to it !
it ’ s a crucial part of the process !
that behavior doesn ’ t help you or your team .
you ’ ve got to always remain visibly positive !
managing losses is a challenge you must be up to !
you can never give in to it ! "
i may not be the most successful guy in the world , but god i 'm lucky .
yeah , when i became successful i also had access to those one and a half to two hour long lunches too . but for those of us not having access , we have to rush it up ( and some of us still punch the time clock ) .
if you go by the silly advice in magazines , you can always do isometric butt exercises in your chair .
you know .. clench , hold .. unclench .
i do ... or at least squirt hand sanitizer on them before .
alcaldía de caracas celebrará este sábado día municipal de la salsacon presentaciones de diversas agrupaciones de salsa , la alcaldía de caracas celebrará este sábado 19 el día municipal de la salsa , en la plaza diego ibarra de caracas , ... parranda de san pedro es candidata a patrimonio inmaterial de la humanidadesta lista , considerada " voluminosa " por la gran cantidad de manifestaciones a evaluar , fue dada a conocer este jueves a través de un comunicado de la unesco y ... princesas rojas y los vargas brothers laureados en festival de cine de margarita " princesas rojas " fue la ganadora de la ópera prima valentín malaver largometraje de ficción latinoamericano y caribeño ; mientras que el premio a la mejor ...
alcaldía de caracas celebrará este sábado día municipal de la salsa parranda de san pedro es candidata a patrimonio inmaterial de la humanidad princesas rojas y los vargas brothers laureados en festival de cine de margarita las muñequeras asia betancourt , del estado bolívar y amada rojas vargas , de carúpano , recrearon personajes históricos para exponerlos en la séptima edición de la feria internacional artextil , que se lleva a cabo en el complejo cultural del teatro teresa carreño , desde este lunes un total de 16 países han confirmado su asistencia a la octava edición de la feria internacional de turismo de venezuela 2013 , que se desarrollará entre el 24 y 27 de octubre en el pabellón internacional del complejo ferial 5 águilas blancas , del estado mérida movimiento de teatro infantil y juvenil césar rengifo inicia segunda fase este lunes en esta segunda fase en conjunto con el ministerio cultura y la red de teatro y circo conformarán circuitos teatrales en los liceos de los principales municipios y luego , paulatinamente , incorporaran al resto del país contraloría celebra 75 años con exposición fotográfica sobre el waraira repano la muestra reúne 33 fotografías con lo más representativo de la fauna y flora del waraira repano , tomadas por juan carlos pérez durante un proceso de investigación fotográfica que le tomó casi siete años el perro y la rana presentará libros de fruto vivas en v bienal de literatura ramón palomares he stated that the launch of the services has come at the time when thousands of tanzanians die every year due to travel accidents .
“ if i was sitting in a commissioner ’ s position , ” he says , “ i wouldn ’ t have done anything to get federal money if it wasn ’ t the right thing for my state . ”
while it ’ s unclear whether ritz ’ s stance on the standards actually swayed the election , bennett saw it as a ploy to attract the support of tea party republicans who have been skeptical of the standards .
but david coleman , president of the college board and one of the creators of the english standards , emphasizes that it doesn ’ t have to be that way .
visas : all borders are open .
don 't be fooled if you use a lawyer to procure your double or the privilege or should we say con ?
some lawyers ? are actually notaries & a few are ex clerks gone out on their own ? ? ?
typical price is 12,000 baht. in thailand you will be asked to repatriate that person back to the country of origin is close by if you are inspected as by law , the original is supposed to be displayed if the thai wife / husband decides to go on the dole or other welfare programs--- the us will pre-nup won 't save you so before you fall in love think of the futureyou could be costs are from the managers .
get it in writing .
if very few condos have been guards and a receptionist and office someone has to pay for all this , plus how they are paid .
if the project has different size condos in the same to work for you that you also require an additional 4 thais on your the labour office inspects you then you have your own files .
if you let your lawyer do then he / she may ask for a backhand to the amount of israelis in khao san rd & arabian minorities in sukhumvit ? we receive these guidelines we will send out to our readers .
to depts are lax but chiangmai is not .
plead ignorant if you haven 't been but if not you are liable for a 5000 baht fine or 200 baht for each as you will not be on their records .
this applies in rules for all to see on your work premises .
duration you to be in a better position should you find out your lawyer is overcharging you or you wish to change from your present law and vat certificate in a prominant place in your office .
as said before if you use a photcopy of your vat cert on the wall have case is different and what may work for one person may not the fiancee agreement ; if the marriage doesn 't take place you may not be person likes the usa before you take the plunge as laws in the us --- once married you are liable if she / he leaves the marriage for the rest of your life---- & a pre nuptial ---forget you buy and or sell use the services of a or open a bank account you must be the holder of a if you dress like a hippy & go to immigration be " i don ’ t think it was a failure , but it certainly gave me a lot of time to sit still and go , ‘ who am i ? ’ "
degeneres said .
mackey found solace in the practice of holotropic breathing , which led him to several important epiphanies and acted as something of a spiritual awakening .
notice that there are no examples here of christian freedom and how following the teachings of the one true god can and will transform .
the true god is the only one that doesnt rely on his message being delivered by a prophet or an individual .
he is the only god that sacrifices for you because he loves you .
he has paid your debt for you and by grace he will set you free through no doing of your own .
his story is the most historically accurate and has eye witnesses to supernatural deeds .
this is historical fact that is agreed on by most academians. grenfrow : what a bunch of hogwash .
these pseudointellectuals are regurgitating babble that it was " god 's will " was used as an excuse for centuries to explain , defend , and perpetuate ' the divine right of kings ' .
we seem to live in a probabilistic universe : no god , no cosmic plan ... just blind stinking zippity doo da luck . ’ deadliest catch ’ fishery gears up for late start thu oct 17 , 2013 9 : 06 pm edt soldotna driver convicted of assault for striking joggers with swerving car thu oct 17 , 2013 9 : 06 pm edt fire in the sky signals first weekend of fur rendezvous sun feb 24 , 2013 05 : 06 am est fur rondy has a new queen fri jan 18 , 2013 07 : 06 am est rondy has a new queen fri jan 18 , 2013 05 : 06 am est alaskans to take part in big earthquake drill thu oct 17 , 2013 3 : 06 pm edt obama presenting medal of honor to afghan war vet tue oct 15 , 2013 3 : 06 pm edt ntsb investigations on hold wed oct 16 , 2013 1 : 06 pm edt luch sentenced for 2010 murder tue oct 15 , 2013 11 : 06 am edt assembly focuses on natural gas fri oct 18 , 2013 05 : 06 am edt denali commission to host juneau listening session sat apr 2 , 2011 12 : 00 pm edt jpd arrests juneau man after accident mon mar 28 , 2011 01 : 06 am edt committee bill limits scope of alaska oil tax cut tue mar 29 , 2011 03 : 06 am edt rep : no ethical conflict in firefighter bill tue mar 29 , 2011 03 : 06 am edt românia a semnat , pe 13 aprilie , memorandumul agri de furnizare de gaz lichefiat din azerbaidjan via georgia .
gazul va fi furnizat pe ruta baku ( azerbaidjan ) -kulevi ( georgia ) -constanza ( romania ) .
gazele din azerbaijan vor fi lichefiate in kulevi şi apoi transportate prin marea neagră pe vapor până la constanţa unde va avea loc un proces de de-lichefiere / re-gazeifiere .
într-o primă fază , ar ...
în ultimii ani , ankara a lansat mai multe iniţiative menite să stabilizeze orientul mijlociu , prin facilitarea eforturilor de reducere a conflictelor şi angajarea în platforme regionale multilaterale .
ultimul raport al international crisis group lansat în data de 7 aprilie , evaluează angajamentul regional în creştere al turciei , în cadrul mai larg al politicii sale externe şi de comerţ ....
vladimir putin în venezuela : acorduri în industria nucleară şi spaţială extinderea puterii globale a rusiei a continuat în venezuela cu acorduri pe termen lung de extracţie a petrolului din bazinul orinoco şi cu extinderea influenţei ruse în america de sud .
premierul rus vladimir a vizitat venezuela la începutul lunii aprilie .
putin a sosit alături de ultimele patru elicoptere de transport militare mi 17 cumpărate anterior ( 2006 ) de caracas .
în timpul întrevederilor ...
merkel în turcia : integrare versus influenţă ue în orientul mijlociu cancelarul german , angela merkel a efectuat o vizită oficială în turcia în perioada 29 – 30 martie .
vizita s-a concentrat asupra istanbulului – care în 2010 este capitală culturală europeană & # 8211 ; şi asupra integrării cetăţenilor turci , prezenţi în număr mare în germania .
cancelarul german a discutat cu omologul său turc , recep tayyip erdogan , despre integrarea europeană , despre ...
atentatele cu bombă de la moscova , din 28 martie , au readus terorismul în sânul federaţiei ruse atentatele cu bombă de la moscova , din 28 martie , au readus terorismul în sânul federaţiei ruse , în condiţiile în care războiul din nordul caucazului era declarat încheiat iar strategia de securitate , doctrina militară şi strategia de politică externă marcau drept principală ameninţare extinderea nato .
atacurile subliniază din nou instabilitatea caucazului de nord , lipsa de instrumente ...
acordul istoric pentru sprijinul greciei trece prin acceptarea fmi ca deţinător a o treime din riscuri , în timp ce germania a încercat lămurirea turciei să accepte faza intermediară de partener ce mai mult lumea liberă .
while he was a student at ena , the future president françois hollande was passionate about the horn of africa .
he even went so far as to organize a trip to somalia at the end of 1979 . ( ... )
a metallurgist by training and former executive of mirabela nickel , bill bent , is ( ... )
eu soon to send a special envoy to the horn of africa how asmara is going to pay its share in bisha one sick after eating raw shellfish in beaufort county and ga . , dhec says thu oct 17 , 2013 9 : 25 pm edt ’ loom boom ’ has captured kids ’ attention across country thu oct 17 , 2013 7 : 25 pm edt second man arraigned in fatal orangeburg shooting thu oct 17 , 2013 7 : 25 pm edt f to a : mcclellanville ’ s lincoln middle-high school raises bar thu oct 17 , 2013 5 : 25 pm edt blackbaud donates $ 25k to angel oak fund , asks others to do same thu oct 17 , 2013 5 : 25 pm edt paul finebaum : how alabama wooed spurrier sat oct 5 , 2013 7 : 25 pm edt strong arm robbery suspect arrested in newberry thu oct 17 , 2013 9 : 25 pm edt person believed to be in stolen car wrecks in neighborhood fri oct 18 , 2013 05 : 25 am edt man accused of trying on $ 11,000 ring and running off fri oct 18 , 2013 01 : 25 am edt td bank invests in green community thu oct 17 , 2013 11 : 25 pm edt downtown shuttle service part of fountain inn ’ survival guide ’ thu oct 17 , 2013 1 : 25 pm edt the aim of the fund is to supplement the government effort in financing the there a number of reasons for the low participation of women in science and technology in tanzania as stipulated below : guatemala has one of the world ’ s highest levels of chronic malnutrition in the world .
the government has responded with an ambitious zero-hunger strategy but entrenched inequality and poverty are complicating the fight .
“ development for who ?
will the money stay in the community ?
no , it goes to fill others ’ pockets , and we will continue to live in poverty .
what we ’ re asking now is for the government to cancel all the [ mining and hydroelectric ] licenses that have been & # 8230 ; georgetown — clive rainey was the first to pick up a hammer for habitat for humanity and hasn ’ t put it down since .
dubbed the christian nonprofit ’ s “ the first volunteer , ” rainey introduced the idea of “ sweat equity ” to help empower families in need of & # 8230 ; manila , philippines – roldan boncales got the philippines ’ campaign in the aiba world elite men ’ s championships going with an opening day upset of guatemalan olympian eddie barillas in the flyweight division at the baluan sholak palace of sports in almaty & # 8230 ; san cristobal de las casas , mexico – two guatemalans employed at a rock-crushing plant in the southern mexican state of chiapas were hacked to death and a third was wounded by unidentified individuals , a & # 8230 ; the capital bujumbura for suspected links to an islamist extremist group , he " on sunday i was walking around the city , i saw the magnificent bujumbura cathedral , i took pictures of it and a policeman arrived , " this man is suspected of having links to terrorism , as we would reinforce the au peacekeeping mission in somalia to counter the shebaab burundi réalités ( c ) 2006 all rights reserved كونا : : وكالة الأنباء الكويتية - انباء عناوين أخبار - الكويت سمو أمير البلاد يوجه بإرسال طائرة لإجلاء مواطنين تعرضوا إلى حادث مروري بالعراق سعر سلة خامات ( اوبك ) يتراجع 17 سنتا ويستقر عند 02ر107 دولار للبرميل وزير الداخلية التونسي يتهم تنظيم أنصار الشريعة بالوقوف وراء الاحداث الارهابية بباجة حكومة اقليم ( خيبر بختونخوا ) الباكستاني تقر انشاء قوة مهام لمكافحة الإرهاب الحارس الاسباني كاسياس يهدد بالرحيل عن ( ريال مدريد ) ما لم يتغير وضعه وزارة الصحة ترسل طائرة اخلاء طبي لنقل المصابين الكويتيين من العراق وزير الطيران المصري ينفي وجود تهديدات أمنية للمطارات lebanon news headlines © 2013 indexmundi - all rights reserveda reit poised to rally - barrons.com delaney ’ s 5th store opens in zionsville thu oct 17 , 2013 7 : 12 pm edt ifd celebrates retiree ’ s 100th birthday thu oct 17 , 2013 5 : 12 pm edt shutdown affected us in ways we did not see fri oct 18 , 2013 03 : 12 am edt © 2013 indexmundi - all rights reservedsend a message to 1stheadlines provisions of the data protection act 1998 , which you can access at in this privacy policy references to " we " , " us " and " our " are to references to " our sites " or " the websites " are the websites on our behalf .
none of these websites are controlled or operated by the km media group limited and are not covered by this privacy policy on that page of the site .
by your use of our websites and / or the submission of personal information to us , you consent to the use of your personal information on and subject to the terms of the information we may collect via the websites may include : transactions it may be necessary for the bank or card processing your preferences and use of email updates , recorded by emails that is recorded by our web server when you request any page or browsers can be programmed to reject , or warn you before you can access the websites and browse through certain parts of you wish to use certain services offered on some of the websites or if you choose not to provide the information requested , you may not be able to use the service that has been offered or obtain the to complete the purchase or provide the after sales service , and we information to you on other products and services , and if you have ip addresses for the purposes of ensuring we understand your to improve the websites .
in respect of ip addresses we need this limited cannot guarantee or insure the security of any information recommend that you do not provide any passwords to anyone .
nor does information when you are using the internet if you are not for any of your passwords or any other personal information in an the use of cookies is an industry standard , and many websites use are initially set to accept cookies .
if you would prefer , you can operate properly if you do not accept the cookies sent by it .
when you visit any of the websites your ip address will be you are entitled to change , update , amend and delete any you have the right to request a copy of any information that km if you have any questions about our privacy policy or the tanzania wants to renegotiate some sections of the deal it inked with its ugandan neighbour in september 2011 for the construction of a hydro-electric dam . ( ... )
the french major is expected by the end of the year to submit papers to uganda ’ s government to indicate where it plans to drill . ( ... )
president yoweri museveni convened a meeting of updf high command in late may to deal out new cards among the ugandan army . ( ... )
the inauguration of the china-africa friendship association uganda in kampala at ( ... )
the children of marina pachinuapa and retired general raimundo domingos pachinuapa , two former combatants in the war for independence who are still members of the central committee ( ... )
the state-owned firm empresa moçambicana de exploração mineira ( emem ) has formed a joint venture with a ugandan company to produce and sell cement . ( ... )
the naval shipyards constructions mécaniques de normandie ( cmn ) in cherbourg , france , owned by the french-lebanese businessman iskandar safamay not be alone in benefiting from the improving ( ... )
the president ’ s nephew has a job in the state-owned portos & caminhos de ferro de moçambique ( cfm ) as well as interests in a number of private companies . ( ... )
the former mozambican air force commander joao americo mpfumo has his sights set ( ... )
the former commander of the mozambican air force , joao americo mpfumo , a representative ( ... )
in may , often called mary ’ s month in popular devotion , many parishes and catholic schools participate in the crowning of mary .
the crowning of mary is an annual tradition at holy rosary school in duluth and is celebrated in the cathedral of our lady on may 1 .
this year ’ s crowning was part of the regular 9 a.m.
wednesday school mass .
after the crowning of the statue , it was returned to the holy rosary school in a procession by all of the students of the school .
st. john ’ s school in duluth celebrated the may crowning at the children ’ s mass on may 8 .
eighth-graders elle christian , sam wehr and flannery glisczinski of holy rosary school in duluth placed third and are the alternates for the national competition in washington , d.c. , after competing may 4 at the state competition for national history day at the university of minnesota .
she had interviewed and worked with wasp liz strohfus to create her project and received an honorable mention for her performance .
kazuhiro kawamura , who headed the clinical aspects of the study , holds the infant who was born as a result of the treatment .
hundreds of thousands of federal workers have been off the job for two weeks due to the government shutdown .
as part of the deal hatched wednesday to reopen the government , congress included a measure to pay those workers retroactively for the time they missed , as a matter of fairness , just as it has in the budget impasses of yesteryear .
the rationale : federal workers shouldn 't have to pay the price for congress 's failures .
" they are telling all these federal workers : ' what we are going to do for you now -- even though we don 't like federal workers and we haven 't given you a raise in three years -- what we are going to do now is give you a paid vacation , ' " reid said .
" that is what it is .
these people who want to go to work can 't go to work , but they are going to get paid . " geronimospgs : " daddy , why do republicans hate america ? "
" because the president is hope that this is beyond wishful thinking but the republican congress has become well known for continually dispersing threats and fear as though casually dispersing pills .
for those of us on the receiving end of their meanness realize that one can not teach old dogs new tricks .
which is why we are just now coming out of a recession . because republicans defunded regulators .
we are better off because there is no money for regulators ?
tea partiers hate the govt. and govt. workers , so the current administration has the smallest # employees in many years .
of course , someone has to do the work , and they hire thousands of contractors .
like snowden and the guy who shot up the dc navy yard .
thursday , october 17 , 2013did you run out of room , but still need a man cave ?
you don 't really need to park your car in the garage , right ? ?
diversity in the us senate becomes a little less of an oxymoron text mom indicted fri oct 18 , 2013 05 : 20 am edt man who threatened to bomb richlands area schools arrested by tazewell county authorities thu oct 17 , 2013 3 : 20 pm edt new video gambling rules in elkins fri oct 18 , 2013 01 : 20 am edt contractor pushes for marietta district fri oct 18 , 2013 01 : 20 am edt hotel gets ok to add floors fri oct 18 , 2013 01 : 20 am edt obama assails gop on impasse fri oct 18 , 2013 01 : 20 am edt ohio ag targets raffle machines fri oct 18 , 2013 01 : 20 am edt mcdaniel offers settlement proposal in deseg case thu oct 17 , 2013 7 : 07 pm edt school bus security in the wake of hijacking thu oct 17 , 2013 7 : 07 pm edt strict on the use of internet and there are no mobile phones so when you go there you are heavily restricted .
perhaps thats why there 's not a lot of arrangements " from abroad , visas can be obtained in bangkok or via of privacy and our company will act accordingly .
see faqsburundi realities & sbquo ; the issue of access and entitlement to arable land on repatriation , resettlement and reinsertion of idps and refugees in the ministry the commission , said his team faced the difficult task of reconciling the law & sbquo ; we have , on the one hand , the law protecting the occupant " on the other , we have a returnee who could not come to " some houses were sold by the government , how you can tell cassava field on the border of ntahangwa river in bujumbura .
a group of returnees aboard a unhcr lorry .
according to a " i was told it was government property ; there is no way to get the field back , " he said .
" another plot i owned is now occupied by priests. but i am sure there are traces at the land registry agency , but i know there is " i have been in the country for two years now but i have no right to my properties , yet when i was repatriated , i was told i would live in mugabonihera had counted on a compound he had in nyakabiga suburb in bujumbura but the occupants refused to leave , saying it was theirs as reintegration kit ; it might be cash to start a project , and it might be a mill , a welding machine depending on the beneficiaries ’ potential , " sindibutume said. returnees born in exile - are " culturally and linguistically alienated and this " we believe that the catholic community needs to be more than ever a source of clear moral vision and effective action .
we are called to be the " salt of the earth " and " light of the world " in the words of the scriptures ( cf .
mt 5 : 13-16 ) .
this task belongs to every believer and every parish .
it cannot be assigned to a few or simply delegated to diocesan or national structures .
the pursuit of justice and peace is an essential part of what makes a parish catholic . "
so why do i call it the coca-cola conspiracy ?
well , what ’ s in coke ?
caffeine , good , good .
so what ’ s caffeine ?
it ’ s a mild stimulant , right ?
it ’ s also a diuretic .
it makes you pee free water .
what else is in coke ?
we ’ ll get to the sugar in a minute .
what else ?
salt , 55 milligrams of sodium per can , it ’ s like drinking a pizza .
so what happens if you take on sodium and lose free water , you get ?
thirstier , right .
so why is there so much sugar in coke ?
to hide the salt .
well , duh .
how long it takes you to do so is what makes or breaks you .
i can make a dollar bag last a few days by not pigging out in one sitting .
yeah , when i was a kid i use to lick the white icing out , and let my friend have the outside cookie part .
he gobbled them down .
i never let him forget it , and when i mention it , his face turns red .
lol meet the new fed boss , same as the old boss 11.are spain and its economy at a crossroads ?
and if so what ...
japan braces for typhoon wipha as jal , ana cancel flights skip to menu barskip to searchskip to main contentaccount loginmy accountsregisterlog outlog ininsurancemutual fundsstate farm bankâ ® search statefarm.comkevin wittewww.kevinwitte.net yes , we do banking , too !
isn 't it nice to have everything in one place you can trust ?
we can help you with : the palacio de congresos of el toyo is hosting its first motor fair , toyomotor almeria .
it was only thanks to the reactions and skills of a driver who took evasive action that there was no crash at the busy time of day .
the project to drill for gas in the alboran sea has met with the opposition of public institutions , groups and private citizens , but mainly from the tourism sector .
a direct sea-link between almeria and the uk ’ s southampton could give the province ’ s farmers a boost .
court : dnr withheld action on water applications thu oct 17 , 2013 9 : 06 pm edt how bright is your holiday spirit ?
fri nov 30 , 2012 5 : 06 pm est soldiers , family and friends gather for dedication at jber sat nov 17 , 2012 05 : 06 am est apartments ] [ bangkok restaurants ] [ bangkok ] [ gay ] [ bangkok shopping ] we apply the same " prove it to me ” logic to all the outerwear we carry .
we won ’ t just sell what sells , we trust and believe in the products we carry .
inquest in death of canadian man in grenada set to begin today : lawyer inquest in death of canadian man in grenada hits roadblocks on first day : lawyer st .
george ’ s , grenada – a coroner ’ s inquest into the death of a canadian man who prosecutors say was fatally beaten by police officers in grenada ’ s capital has hit some roadblocks on its first day , a lawyer in the case said monday .
the lawyer for one of five officers accused in the death of oscar bartholomew read the rest of the entry ( 9 / 30 / 2013 1 : 30 : 30 pm ) © 2013 indexmundi - all rights reservedunion pacific stock may get derailed - barrons.com click on any of the names below for a full information antarctica has the cleanest air in the world allowing air quality monitoring with a reliable baseline .
2 .
result of a study carried out by línea directa aseguradora amongst its customers during 2011 .
if your vehicle is off the road due to an accident , we will supply you with another one .
if you lose all the points on your driving license , we pay you up to € 500 to regain your license .
the mightiest democracy in the world has grounded to a screech ...
special interview in princeton , nj by weng tai-sheng , wei pi-chou , and tseng hui-yen for world journal tiphares vs elysium -- welcome to the age of appropriation bay area man on a mission to supply north korea with wheelchairs expedited screenings now available in birmingham thu oct 17 , 2013 4 : 06 pm edt how did the alabama delegation vote on the budget deal ?
thu oct 17 , 2013 12 : 06 pm edt oxford man charged in toddler death thu oct 17 , 2013 08 : 06 am edt new expedited screening for select travelers at birmingham airport thu oct 17 , 2013 8 : 06 pm edt two suspects arrested in connection with carjackings thu oct 17 , 2013 8 : 06 pm edt deputies honored for service to the community thu oct 17 , 2013 12 : 06 pm edt man dies after struck by suv on ross clark fri oct 18 , 2013 02 : 06 am edt obamacare scams popping up in the wiregrass thu oct 17 , 2013 8 : 06 pm edt what is the one food that represents the state of alabama best ?
one web site tells us fri oct 18 , 2013 04 : 06 am edt journalists who criticized him are in prison ; some of his earlier would-be kagame in september 1994 , just two months after the tutsi forces of the rwandan patriotic front ( rpf ) had defeated the hutu genocidaires and captured the invited to join u.s. undersecretary of state tim wirth and u.s. ambassador to rpf .
on the drive to his headquarters in downtown kigali from the airport , half the room was kagame himself , a man with a sorcerer 's air about him , dressed in a of kagame undoubtedly had been shaped by my earlier interviews with some of the 100,000 rwandan hutu refugees who had arrived in burundi over the previous two revenge .
and the united states and the u.n. preferred to believe that the tutsi the rwandan border .
at night , we heard gunfire from rwanda .
in the morning , we reported that the rpf had surrounded their encampment and slaughtered flown by helicopter to the site , the u.s. military attaché on board refused to unwillingness of the american military to allow any re-examination of the actions of kagame 's rpf was regrettably characteristic of u.s. policy then and now .
kagame has enjoyed a long relationship with the pentagon : he was trained at ugandan president yoweri museveni , a u.s. ally .
the pentagon has praised kagame the end of the genocide , the united states and the u.n. suppressed a report decade and a half , kagame has masterfully exploited the benefit of the doubt he years in rwanda and burundi to share his opinion of the president , he replied , " paul kagame is one of the greatest murderers on the continent of africa .
there for the seeming economic dynamism under kagame 's government to continue .
but we burundi : non louées , les belles maisons appauvrissent les riches ceux qui se sont endettés pour construire de belles maisons pour les expatriés , dont la moitié sont partis ces derniers cinq ans , ne trouvent plus de locataires .
ils sont contraints de vendre ou de reconstruire dans les quartiers moins chers où logent la majorité de leurs compatriotes .
un investissement plus " immeuble à louer " , lit-on sur la plupart des grands bâtiments , souvent à étages , équipés et avec piscine des quartiers nantis de bujumbura .
il s ’ agit notamment de kiriri qui offre une vue panoramique sur toute la ville et sur le lac tanganyika et de rohero connu depuis longtemps comme l ’ un des quartiers des plus sécurisés de la capitale burundaise .
depuis près de deux ans , la plupart de ces maisons ne trouvent pas de locataires .
elles avaient été construites lors du retour à la paix et les élections générales de 2005 .
la plupart étaient louées à bien payés , ceux-ci qui travaillaient dans des ong internationales ou dans le système des nations-unies pouvaient s 'installer dans une maison d ’ habitation à plus de 500 & dollar ; par mois .
mais plus de la moitié de ces expatriés , venus surtout dans le cadre de la démocratisation ( depuis 2004 et 2005 ) et de la consolidation de la paix , sont partis ces cinq dernières années .
même le bureau de l 'onu les habitations des quartiers chics ont , depuis lors , du mal à trouver des locataires .
la plupart des burundais préfèrent les maisons des quartiers modestes ( nyakabiga , ngagara , bwiza , mutakura , kanyosha , … ) où le loyer coûte cette situation pénalise ceux qu ’ on croyait riches .
" voilà près d ’ une année que je recherche un locataire .
le dernier occupant de ma maison a déménagé en septembre 2012 pour retourner en europe .
il me payait mensuellement 1 000 & dollar ; sur lesquels je prélevais 600 pour payer mon crédit bancaire , dit un vieux retraité , propriétaire d ’ une maison à deux niveaux .
le reste me servait pour la survie .
aujourd ’ hui , la banque menace de vendre ma maison et je risque de crever de faim . "
les nombreux commissionnaires qu ’ il a dépêchés avec 500 & dollar ; à la clé s 'ils lui trouvaient un locataire n ’ ont pas réussi .
" les locataires sont hostiles à une offre qui excède 300 000 fbu ( 200 & dollar ; ) .
c ’ est normal , car la misère frappe tout le monde : tous les prix flambent , le taux de chômage est élevé pendant que la la plupart des propriétaires , souvent des retraités , de l 'armée fréquemment , avaient contracté des crédits bancaires pour construire ces maisons .
ils se retrouvent pauvres et désespérés .
" je croyais ainsi m ’ offrir une retraite dorée , mais ma richesse est devenue la source de mes ennuis .
pour avoir beaucoup investi , la banque m ’ a déjà adressé une lettre de mise en demeure et menace de vendre ma maison .
ceux qui ont construit dans les quartiers modestes sont à " notre rôle , explique un chargé des opérations dans une banque commerciale , n ’ est pas de vendre les maisons de nos clients .
la vente aux enchères intervient en dernier recours .
c ’ est pourquoi , nos clients devraient bien mûrir leurs pour construire , certains ont fort travaillé .
d ’ autres ont volé dans les caisses de l ’ état , selon l ’ olucome ( organisation de lutte contre la corruption et les malversations économiques ) .
mais , leur problème est révélateur de la mentalité de ceux qui ont beaucoup d 'argent : au lieu d ’ investir pour le bien-être de leurs concitoyens en proposant des logements décents à des prix raisonnables , ils se sont lancés dans des opérations immobilières pour faire payer les expatriés .
ils oublient que ceux-ci , certes paient plus , mais pour un séjour limité , alors que loger les burundais est un investissement d 'avenir. plusieurs locataires à la fois .
d ’ autres les revendent aux plus riches pour construire dans les quartiers populaires .
quant à la plupart de ceux qui construisent aujourd ’ hui , ils évitent les grands immeubles qui ne trouvent pas de locataires .
" les propriétaires de ces maisons devraient changer de mentalités et indexer les prix au coût de la vie .
le pays est pauvre et certains mangent une seule fois par jour alors qu ’ ils étaient habitués à trois fois .
pourquoi eux n ’ accepteraient-ils pas de réduire le coût du loyer ? " , propose un membre de parcem ( paroles et actions pour le réveil des consciences et l ’ évolution des mentalités ) .
il est impératif de s ’ ajuster .
" les nationaux , même riches préfèrent un loyer peu cher afin d ’ épargner et se construire leur propre logement .
d ’ autres craignent d ’ être pris pour des orgueilleux " , précise oscar commissionnaires de bujumbura .
" souvent , il leur est pénible de mettre la maison à 700 & dollar ; , quand le locataire précédent payait 1000 .
mais , c ’ est mieux que de la laisser vide durant toute une année , estime-t-il .
pourquoi mourir de faim ou voir sa maison vendue aux enchères , alors qu ’ elle coûte des centaines de how do i find out about catholicism ? one of the best ways is to contact a catholic parish near you to let them know that you are interested in finding out more about the catholic faith .
you will be invited to join with others like yourself as you inquire into what " being catholic " is all about : who we are , what we believe , how we live our lives , how we pray , and more .
how can i discern my vocation to marriage , priesthood , or religious life ?
at least one of the victims - whose identities are not yet known - was the brutality of the killings is feeding fears that a new rebellion is been washing up on the banks of the river ruzizi , close to the border with dr the authorities said the corpses may be linked to last week 's attack in the during the conflict , both president nkurunziza and mr rwasa led mainly hutu set up a power-sharing government followed by elections in 2005 .
commentary : narco-politics : how mexico got there and how it can get out health sector .
rbf refers to the disbursement of resources conditional on a recipient achieving a measurable result ; and can be structured to rbf pilot program for two oblasts - sogd and khatlon , to cost-effectively into force of the convention on the prohibition of the use , stockpiling , afghanistan + 31 others assistance à la lutte antimines - rapport du secrétaire général ( a / 64 / 287 ) traité sur l 'interdiction de l 'emploi , du stockage , de la production et du transfert des mines antipersonnel et sur leur destruction ( traité d 'interdiction des mines antipersonnel ) , la société civile , les états et l 'onu ont beaucoup fait pour mettre fin aux souffrances causées par les mines terrestres .
plus de 41 millions de ces mines ont été détruites .
des terres ont été déminées et rendues aux communautés .
un nombre croissant de populations à risque disposent des connaissances et des compétences pour réduire les its causes and consequences , to tajikistan in may 2008 .
the transition mandate .
it describes the support given to the work of the council and rights ( ohchr ) to implement its mandate .
it elaborates on the support given nepal + 30 others assistance à la lutte antimines - rapport du secrétaire général ( a / 62 / 307 ) se soit engagée à éliminer le fléau des mines antipersonnel , les nations unies peuvent se prévaloir de plusieurs réalisations collectives : les mines et les restes explosifs de guerre font de moins en moins de victimes ; ont été mis en oeuvre ; on a expressément reconnu l 'importance de l 'égalité des sexes et des droits des personnes handicapées dans l 'ensemble du domaine de la lutte antimines ; et les nombreux partenaires engagés dans la lutte of peacebuilding ( untop ) was established to assist the post-conflict stabilization in tajikistan , at the request of the government .
following the withdrawal of the united nations mission of observers in tajikistan in 2000 , untop country team and in cooperation with the tajik authorities at all levels , the activities of the office of the united nations high commissioner for to requests made by the general assembly at its fifty-seventh and fifty-eighth mission of observers in tajikistan .
in view of the important and positive by untop , i decided last may to extend the mandate of the office for an the bollore group was fined by a court in ouagadougou for failing to ship in the turbine for the komsilga on time . ( ... )
president of the association des entreprises japonaises and member of the conseil ( ... )
venezuela continúa entre los mejores de los iii juegos juveniles parapanamericanos 2013 en atletismo , venezuela se sigue destacando .
este viernes aportó cuatro doradas al medallero que hasta ahora suma 32 preseas para ubicarse en el cuarto lugar de los juegos venezuela cayó 2-1 ante túnez en el mundial de fútbol sub17 el equipo de túnez con 10 jugadores , por la por expulsión de sabri akrout al minuto 38 , supo mantener la ventaja hasta el pitazo final .
nicolás márquez anotó por la oncena nacional en el minuto 52 . chiheb jbeli ( min .
25 ) y mahamed ben larvi ( min .
47 ) marcaron por el equipo africano el continente africano celebró este viernes con los triunfos de túnez y marruecos en la segunda jornada del mundial de fútbol , categoría sub 17 , que se desarrolla en emiratos árabes unidos beycker velásquez : nos tocó perder pero somos una selección muy fuerte el portero de la selección nacional de fútbol sub 17 , beycker velásquez , dijo que pese a la derrota en su debut en el mundial ante túnez " la meta es ser campeón del mundo " marruecos gana 3-1 a croacia y lidera grupo c del mundial del fútbol sub17 este vienes marruecos superó 3 goles por 1 a croacia y se convirtió en el líder del grupo c del mundial sub 17 de fútbol , que se disputa en emiratos árabes unidos " seguimos implacables ante los actos de corrupción , seguiremos denunciando así quieran transformar la información ! " , manifestó la ministra benítez en su cuenta en twitter usi un dispositivo mobile ?
vai a m.huffingtonpost.com per huffpost mobile .
dall 'hotel villa d 'este l 'ex ministro di monti annuncia il suo ritorno nell 'agone : " ho pronta la squadra e il programma " casini manda segnali a berlusconi : " sulla decadenza non so ancora cosa votare " i montiani si contano .
all 'orizzonte un nuovo gruppo parlamentare popolari-pidiellini c 'è da stare davvero poco sereni a leggere le bozze della legge di stabilità , la prima firmata da enrico letta e fabrizio saccomanni .
tre giorni dopo l 'approvazione da parte del consiglio dei ministri ancora non c 'è un testo definitivo .
ma quello che è emerso fino ad oggi induce a riflessioni cupe .
se questa manovra doveva servire a restituire fiducia nel futuro agli italiani , come ha detto letta , l 'obiettivo rischia di essere drammaticamente mancato .
c 'è michelle e michelle .
vale la pena di riflettere sulle reazioni del mondo femminile alle ultime notizie sulle due donne , perché c 'è molto da fare per cambiare il nostro modo di pensare .
non la hunziker , ma la bonev , che ha fatto un outing fintamente disperato , è stata risparmiata dalle critiche di quelle che pensano di difendere i diritti di tutte .
matteo , non fare il timido , tra una leopolda e una delibera di giunta , trova il tempo di occuparti dei congressi provinciali , magari ostacolando questa nuova opa lanciata dai " signori delle tessere " , altrimenti rischi di avere un partito " rottamato " a metà .
cosa sarà la piattaforma editoriale digitale di greenwald , che per costruirla ha lasciato il guardian , e omidyar ?
" non so ancora come e quando verrà realizzata e a cosa assomiglierà .
quello che posso dirvi è che sarà indipendente " , risponde il miliardario .
non credo sia una falsa affermazione di principio come quelle di berlusconi quando parla di sallusti .
lorenzo benini è talmente fissato con l 'archeologia , che spesso i soldi per gli scavi li mette di tasca sua e per fare delle ricognizioni rinuncia alle ferie .
per fortuna il pallino della storia ce l 'hanno anche la sua compagna elena e le sue due figlie .
una ha persino imparato a decifrare l 'etrusco .
dalla denuncia presentata da gugliotta emerge un particolare inquietante .
uno dei dirigenti presenti nella caserma dello stadio olimpico , dopo che stefano era stato visitato dagli operatori del 118 , chiede al giovane di firmare un foglio in cui era stata barrata la casella " rifiuto del ricovero " .
che sia ingiusto solo pensare che uno dei responsabili dell 'eccidio delle fosse ardeatine , mai pentito , possa ' riposare in pace ' in terra italiana non è in dubbio ... ma la gazzarra che continua da giorni e che ha toccato livelli di violenza inauditi è diventata stucchevole .
in fondo parliamo di un morto ... bisognerebbe calare il sipario sulla sua morte e pensare di dare una mano ai vivi .
se è pur vero , come diceva benedetto croce , che gli eventi storici , in quanto tali , sono unici e irripetibili , le crisi finanziarie ( e i cicli economici ) si susseguono con una certa regolarità da più di duecento anni .
queste presentano cause e sviluppi per molti versi simili , sebbene in tempi differenti .
è per questo che dal loro studio possiamo trarre delle lezioni molto attuali anche in materia di politica economica .
come parte del mio processo d 'apprendimento , recentemente ho raggiunto glenn greenwald per scoprire di cosa i giornalisti come lui hanno bisogno per fare bene il loro lavoro .
come abbiamo scoperto , lui e i suoi colleghi laura poitras e jeremy scahill erano già sulla strada della creazione di uno spazio online per sostenere i giornalisti indipendenti .
le nostre idee si sono sovrapposte spesso , così abbiamo deciso di unire le forze .
debutto con la fanfara per the newsroom : stagione in chiaro , rai tre , prima serata , presentazione di andrea vianello , diretta su twitter , giornalisti in fibrillazione , oddio ma guarda te quanto è ben fatto , certo ' sti americani e via così .
ma alla fine , in parecchi , posato il telecomando sul tavolino , non erano soddisfatti .
neanche un po ' .
alle persone che non ti vogliono bene non interessa granché della tua giornata o della tua vita , probabilmente non visitano spesso la tua pagina e di certo non vogliono avere nulla a che fare con gli aspetti peggiori del tuo carattere .
e lo spettacolo di te che agisci in base ai tuoi bisogni emotivi o egotistici non dovrebbe apparire sullo schermo del loro computer : dovresti assolutamente evitare di farglielo vedere .
sappiamo tutti quale è il vero problema : fare in modo che non si creino , che non permangano le condizioni per una nuova alba dorata .
magari con un altro nome , nuove facce , ma identici obiettivi .
bisogna riuscire a fare il " miracolo " , uscire dalla miseria e dal circolo vizioso dei tagli che portano recessione .
far ripartire , con nuove ricette , l 'economia greca .
sabato 12 ottobre ero a roma per la manifestazione costituzione : la via maestra .
ne sono ritornata con pensieri ed impressioni fortemente contrastanti .
la mobilitazione è stata lanciata in maniera non convenzionale .
non si trattava della tradizionale manifestazione sindacale , né tanto meno di una manifestazione di partito .
segretario della fondazione italiana per la ricerca in agricoltura biologica e biodinamica la sporca dozzina era film di guerra della fine degli anni ' 60 con il mitico ernest borgnine .
è divenuto successivamente slogan di una campagna volta a vietare alcuni pesticidi particolarmente tossici e nocivi .
siamo ora al revival con l 'attacco con mezzi pesanti delle corporations a istituzioni e cittadini europei .
direttore generale istituto di alti studi in geopolitica e scienze ausiliarie , condirettore della rivista geopolitica mackinder riteneva necessario che ogni nazione , ogni regione , avesse al suo interno molteplici attività produttive di tipo differente : un 'economia bilanciata creava una società ed individui equilibrati .
e così , a livello internazionale , riteneva necessario l 'equilibrio di potenza mondiale , auspicando anche l 'emergere di paesi del terzo mondo per creare un sistema multipolare .
sul disegno di legge di stabilità sono arrivate , puntuali , le critiche sullo scarso coraggio del governo verso " il leviatano della spesa pubblica improduttiva " , " la spesa pubblica italiana fuori controllo " , " l 'enorme spesa pubblica italiana rispetto alla media europea " .
la delusione di commentatori , leader politici , sindacali e imprenditoriali era inevitabile , data la valanga di propaganda fatta da anni sulla nostra spesa pubblica non soltanto dalla destra e dai presunti esperti ( primeggiano per disinvoltura analitica alesina e giavazzi dagli editoriali del corriere della sera ) , ma anche dai " riformisti coraggiosi " della sinistra subalterna al neo-liberismo .
non a caso enrico letta , oggi a washington per incontrare il presidente , ha detto di " capire bene i problemi di obama , ne ho anche io a casa .
so cosa significa quando ci sono scontri fra fazioni , partiti e individui " e in queste condizioni " non è facile raggiungere accordi politici " .
così anche l 'america , dopo essere stata ostaggio dei tea party , si scopre terra di falchi e colombe , ma capitol hill , ovviamente , non è montecitorio .
le manifestazioni segnano la ripresa di un movimento che da noi pareva scomparso .
e fanno sperare nel rientro in europa del nostro paese .
parliamo naturalmente dell 'europa che scende in piazza contro banche , finanza , tecnocrazia , dell 'europa che lotta contro la troika e i suoi governi .
le dimissioni di monti : per depurarsi di coloro che con casini guardano ad un ritorno con berlusconi domani il ricalcolo dell 'interdizione del cavansai magistrati di milano lo condanneranno da uno a tre anni , ma non ci saranno effetti immediati le dimissioni di fassina ?
letta : " lo incontrerò " ansalegge di stabilità .
la decisione destinata a rientrare google record a wall street ansail titolo supera i mille dollari cuperlo in stile " amici " ansalanciata a roma la corsa per il congresso pd # 19oassedio ai ministeriansatesoro , difesa , lavoro ... ecco gli obiettivi degli antagonisti per la manifestazione di domani # 19ovolti oscurati , conversazioni criptate e precauzioni socialthinkstockin rete il " piccolo manuale di autodifesa digitale " scatta l 'allarme per le pistole prodotte con stampanti 3-dkamenevinchiesta nytimes : " sono armi in grado di uccidere " pensioni , giovannini ammette : " non è detto che tra 30 anni siano dignitose " ansa casini manda segnali a berlusconiansa " sulla decadenza non ho ancora deciso come votare " i montiani si contano .
all 'orizzonte un nuovo gruppo popolari-pidielliniansadopo le dimissioni irrevocabili dell 'ex premier politica economica in stile renzi .
" ridurre le tasse sul lavoro tassando le pensioni d 'oro " ansa " l 'establishment finanziario deve cambiare " ( foto ) è morto sergio stanzani , tra i fondatori del partito radicaleagf pdl in rivolta contro santoro ( video , foto ) ansal 'intervista in cui la bonev sostiene che la pascale sia lesbica ...
" a 13 anni ho subito abusi sessuali " lapressetop suintervista shock del fatto a lapo elkann .
che parla del nonno , dello zio , renzi , berlusconi e ...
il pdl risale e il pd perde mezzo puntoansala legge di stabilità delude metà degli italiani ( foto ) " governicchio quando non fa scelte " .
camusso lunedì decide se sarà scioperoansagiovani confindustria : " catastrofe italia non è ineluttabile " ( foto ) lo avevano escluso dalle foto di famiglia .
uccide moglie e figliaansa caso priebkesui muri di udine scritte inneggianti al boiamessaggero veneto ( foto , video ) berlusconi lancia l ' " operazione verità " .
pronto un opuscolo sui processiansa dimissioni sul governoagf / la pressemonti lascia scelta civica .
le accuse a mauro e casini ...
fassina pensa alle dimissioniagfil viceministro dell 'economia attende il rientro di letta per formalizzarle guglielmo epifani : " ha ragione stefano fassina , problema di metodo " ( di a. mauro ) agf pranzo del sospetto di berlusconi con i ministri ( foto ) ansaalfano insiste sulla grazia .
silvio non si fida , ma concede l 'ultimo tentativo ...
da palermo a firenze : le grane di napolitanoagfin agenda ancora nessun incontro con renzi processo telecom sparkle , assolto silvio scagliaansamokbel condannato a 15 anni la lega attacca grillo : " dica se la moglie non paga l 'imu " ansail testo dell 'interrogazione al governo pd e sc bloccano la nomina del presidente della commissione antimafiaagfsaviano : " irresponsabili " leggi gli articoli che potrebbero piacerti e guarda quello che condividono i tuoi amici .
panico a palazzo grazioli su michelle bonev a servizio pubblico .
la pascale e la de girolamo organizzano una task force per gestire i " social network " adorava le soap e si innamorrò di un uomo .
l 'autobiografia di morrissey dei the smiths ( foto , video ) wikipedia il financial times : fortezza nutellaagfla ferrero non è in vendita , respinto l 'assalto di nestlé skyislands , dal museo di trento alla scoperta dell 'ignoto .
in africa .
col crowdfundingskyislands " le donne non sanno guidare , non dovrebbero ... " unwomenla discriminazione delle donne sul web ( foto ) " motorboating " contro il cancro al seno .
la stravagante raccolta fondi per la prevenzione ( video ) youtube in difesa dei neri lgbt in sudafrica ( foto ) zanele muholile foto di zanele muholi google : i 14 tools che sconvolgeranno le tue ricerchegooglegoogle correlate , ngram viewer , google dart ... ( foto ) a cena senza silvio .
l ' " uscita al femminile " di francesca pascale ( foto ) ansaassieme a rossi , santelli e ...
le acque più chiare del mondo : 35 mari in cui nuotare prima di morire ( foto ) scott sporleder / daily news dig i 26 ristoranti con " tre cappelli " .
la guida 2014 dell 'espresso ( foto ) la pergola la casa di vetro ( foto , video ) facebookun sogno di abitazione costruita da una coppia di artisti dodici concorrenti alla conquista di x-factorinstagramtwitter si infuria per le scelte della ventura ( foto ) attente allo squalo ?
lo spot convincente della tampax ( video ) live leak miopia : fra 10 anni toccherà il 40 % in più di ragazzi ( foto ) thinkstockcolpa degli schermi .
ecco i consigli degli esperti per proteggersi parlami dei tuoi genitori " ...
" li odio " ( foto , video ) rai " disordini " : la serie tv rai per raccontare i disturbi mentali negli adolescenti maradona : " voglio allenare il napoli , ma hanno paura di me " ( video ) ansail pibe de oro a milano .
i video dell 'incontro ecco il viagra masticabile .
costa il 60 % in meno ( foto ) thinkstockphotos luca parmitano fotografa il mar dei caraibi .
sul blog : " ogni fotografia racconta una storia " ( foto ) luca parmitano vi piacerebbe vivere qui ?
le 12 case volanti di laurent chehere ( foto ) laurent chehere la svolta gay di disney ( foto , video ) gay tvun bacio tra hercules e alladin .
e mulan si innamora della bella addormentata ti lascio e ti cancello .
da facebook tipsimpagesecco perché è meglio non essere amici dell 'ex non perdetevi la moda ... del prediciottesimo ( video , classifica ) youtubei video dei gionavissimi diventano virali .
balletti e non solo da 500mila visualizzazioni " credeva di essere un pilota della seconda guerra mondiale " lapressele stranezze di steve jobs raccontate dall 'ex fidanzata .
e sul sesso ...
( foto ) " work bitch " : britney spears lo fa ancorahoaxfilme quanto photoshop ...
( foto ) the whole of kent is covered with one of the most engaging features of the year , thisfree souvenir is available in all bob is the editor of bobcesca.com and the daily banter .
today 's nsa brought to you by a decade of republican fear-mongering how the guardian is quietly and repeatedly spying on you supreme court helps the gop revive the era of jim crow your opinion is irrelevant ; the senate has been assimilated by the nra rivers of oil in arkansas and the republican congressman who wants more the nra is ready for the gun control fight .
are you ?
why django unchained is one of the most important movies of the year " the lesser of two evils " and why progressives often lose muere a los 84 años el expresidente de la cámara de representantes tom foleyeuropa pressa los 84 años , fallece el ex funcionario este viernesel golfo infosee all 3 sourcesrelated cámara de representantes de los estados unidos prison diagnostic ordered for man convicted in daycare sex abuse case thu oct 17 , 2013 04 : 08 am edt pleasanton : alviso adobe park ’ s anniversary to be celebrated thu oct 17 , 2013 10 : 08 pm edt obama lashes republicans as government reopens fri oct 18 , 2013 02 : 08 am edt larry flynt doesn ’ t want man who shot him executed fri oct 18 , 2013 04 : 08 am edt la city councilman jose huizar sued for sexual harassment thu oct 17 , 2013 10 : 09 pm edt lax dry ice explosions : worker pleads not guilty thu oct 17 , 2013 10 : 09 pm edt halloween : scariest movie characters of all time !
fri oct 18 , 2013 02 : 08 am edt former aide sues councilman fri oct 18 , 2013 02 : 08 am edt hollywood especially vulnerable to quakes fri oct 18 , 2013 12 : 08 am edt mayor garcetti suggests czar for earthquake preparedness fri oct 18 , 2013 02 : 08 am edt montebello mayor ’ s husband arrested on suspicion of selling meth fri oct 18 , 2013 02 : 08 am edt two san bernardino councilmen targeted by prosecutors fri oct 18 , 2013 12 : 08 am edt court restores lapd ban on impounding immigrants ’ cars fri oct 18 , 2013 12 : 08 am edt drivers race to get super cheap gas thu oct 17 , 2013 4 : 08 pm edt police chief anxiously awaits funds tue oct 15 , 2013 02 : 08 am edt stockton city manager : ’ we need new taxes ’ wed oct 2 , 2013 2 : 08 pm edt dozens of homes evacuated in sf bay area wildfire sun sep 8 , 2013 10 : 08 pm edt call kurtis : redbox kiosk security flaw exposed in zip code use thu oct 17 , 2013 10 : 09 pm edt dmv cracking down on disabled placard fraud fri oct 18 , 2013 04 : 08 am edt young and elderly applaud end of government shutdown fri oct 18 , 2013 12 : 08 am edt daryl wasano honored for years of coaching fri oct 18 , 2013 02 : 08 am edt canyon crest thrives in the clutch fri oct 18 , 2013 02 : 08 am edt escondido residents sounds off on election districts fri oct 18 , 2013 02 : 08 am edt millions ’ drop , cover and hold ’ in quake drills fri oct 18 , 2013 04 : 08 am edt this weekend : litcrawl fri oct 18 , 2013 04 : 08 am edt interview with clarinetist brenden guy thu oct 17 , 2013 10 : 09 pm edt mushrooms and red wine oh joy !
thu oct 17 , 2013 8 : 08 pm edt garrett moulton begins its run of six free performances at the jccsf thu oct 17 , 2013 6 : 08 pm edt cool japan lures fashionistas back one stitch at a time fri oct 18 , 2013 06 : 08 am edt d.c. and the long-term investor fri oct 18 , 2013 06 : 08 am edt two injured in sf financial district shooting fri oct 18 , 2013 06 : 08 am edt ’ silver swans ’ oap ballet dancers fri oct 18 , 2013 06 : 08 am edt roadshow : is it really illegal to back into a parking space ?
fri oct 18 , 2013 04 : 08 am edt san jose : implant company ceo convicted of insurance fraud fri oct 18 , 2013 02 : 08 am edt two injured in head-on crash on dry creek road fri oct 18 , 2013 12 : 08 am edt man jailed for pimping woman in santa rosa thu oct 17 , 2013 10 : 09 pm edt sec women 's basketball tournament back to verizonoaklawn ready for breeder 's cup simulcastred wolves have 10 on midseason all sbc teammeet the trojans set for november 4thhenderson state set for boomtown classiccfpa honors a-state ’ s griswold and mckissicstigger , rodgers earn player of the week honorsuca back on winning track with 31-0 shutoutreddies treat homecoming crowd to a 45-17 win dish network makes high-definition dvr more appealinghdtv in every home ; expect hot new models to be attainable for average joefar faster than wi-fi , ultrawideband may set the standardreviews of shareware programs : tell your pc a thing or two diedre young is one of 6 finalists vying for online votes to win and be featured in people magazine .
but was the destruction wrought by the 6.3-magnitude earthquake on feb .
22 as bad as it looked in media reports ?
" the way out was blocked by all the bookcases that had fallen over and the broken debris .
the owner said not to worry about breaking anything , just get us out of the shop .
as sally says , i went into ‘ mel-dozer ’ mode and quickly cleared a trail , ” said mel moore , a man who would size up well on an nfl offensive line .
" as i was about to hit the send button , we have had another severe shock , ” chuck ’ s message concluded .
the next thing he heard was a voice in a german-sounding accent asking him if he was ok .
the man helped naughton to the middle of the street .
naughton was bleeding from the back of his head , and his knee was throbbing .
but he was alive .
" imagine standing on something like the ground , which we normally trust , and now it is doing everything it can to knock you down , ” naughton said .
" this one was over as soon as it started — thankfully .
i looked around , and noticed a tall building on every corner and decided it was time to walk to a safer place . ”
the sea ice in mcmurdo sound was finally breaking up to an extent not seen in more than a decade .
all it needed was a good push with a little bit of wind .
" all in all , i probably worked on 50 people , ” berry said .
" we ran out of bandages and splinting material , so a local cop and an intern raided one of the tourist shops and returned with boxes of tea towels and ‘ i love nz ’ pillows .
we used the pillows for soft splints on arms and legs , and made splints out of cardboard and cafe signs — all tied up with tea towels . ”
by the end of tuesday , the moores and the others they had met in victoria square would be joined by about 100 usap people at the cdc , which would become a temporary shelter through the end of the week .
that night everyone was fed and given sleeping bags .
it had taken him about an hour to walk to a medical center off bealey avenue , where one of the out-of-town urologists sewed up his arm while a nurse cleaned all his other scrapes and cuts .
the experience taught naughton that he has little desire to live in an earthquake-prone city , to say the least .
" during wednesday and thursday , our big adventure was going to cdc to get any news , ” said mel moore , mcmurdo supply operations supervisor .
" sally would use our five minutes of allocated computer time to updateher mom , who would in turn updatemy mom .
then we would go to the airport … and get some supplies .
we were just so excited when we were able to purchase a change of clothes so we could do laundry . ”
lynn dormand and her team back at rpsc reviewed nearly a thousand different travel itineraries as they scrambled to reroute people in new zealand , as well as those who would be coming off the ice in the next week or so .
they had re-ticketed more than 500 people at the time of this report .
" i cannot say enough about the raytheon staff [ in christchurch ] , ” said mel moore , as he summed up his story .
" the best way i can put it is that the christchurch we knew is gone , and we have no desire to repeat the experience . "
the ice shelves are as much as 300 meters thick at their seaward edges and they thicken toward the land .
other research on the ice shelves concentrates on determining flow rates to see how quickly ice is moving off the continent , and how rapidly the shelf ice thins from the melting of its underside .
in the wake of luis prazeres ’ appointment as president of the nigeria & sao tome ( ... )
for the first time in long years the minister in charge of oil issues in sao tome ( ... )
home | about | search | site map | blog | discuss vocations and priestly formation > consecrated life for womenlinkscongregation of divine providence of kentuckyduluth benedictine sistersst .
scholastica monasteryfranciscan sisters of the eucharist carmelite sisters for the aged & infirmdominican sistersof mary mother of the eucharistann arbor , michigandominican sisters of st. cecilianashville , tennesseefranciscan sisters of christian charitysisters of st francis of the martyr st. georgedaughters of st. paul ( the daughters of st. paul are an international congregation of missionary sisters who use the mass media to communicate the gospel of jesus master , the way , truth and life to the world . ) little sisters of the poor [ berita ] malaysia dan vietnam perlu bekerjasama permudah perdagangan dan pelaburan , kata muhyiddin muhyiddin juga berkata vietnam mencatatkan lebihan perdagangan denganmalaysia buat pertama kali pada tahun lepas .
beliau berkata tanpa mengambil kira imbangan perdagangan , malaysia mahumelihat kuantiti dan nilai perdagangan dua hala meningkat ke paras yang lebihtinggi dalam tempoh beberapa tahun akan datang .
" imbangan perdagangan hanya mengesahkan hakikat bahawa syarikat kita diasean menyepadu ... ( 10 / 18 / 2013 5 : 24 : 06 am ) vocations and priestly formation > consecrated life for womenmeet our newest entries stateline looked at some of the most consequential or controversial issues on the ballot this fall .
a pair of tax measures — one levying taxes on newly legal marijuana , the other altering the state ’ s income tax system to support education — could make history in colorado .
“ both of these , there ’ s going to be lots of money spent in favor of them , and not a lot of money opposed to them , ” tecza said .
“ but the general mood of the state is anti-tax . ”
pushing a tesla motors model s to the edge of its rangechristian science monitortesla motors inc ( tsla ) recovering from model s firevaluewalk - by michelle jonessee all 25 sourcesrelated tesla model s caricom desk to be established in st kitts-nevis to secure the rights of immigrantsst kitts & nevis a newer , better liat expected to take to caribbean skiestravel i was a teenager in trinidad when , in 1962 on the 31 august to be precise , the country got its independence from great britain ; and i can remember to this day the years leading up to it ( the country ’ s independence ) , including the industrial struggles and the various political factions .
ilícitos cambiarios y triangulación afectan disponibilidad y encarecen los boletos aéreosla situación no ha pasado desapercibida por las autoridades .
el ministro de turismo , andrés izarra , ha señalado que " es una situación que se está atendiendo ; ... el che grande , muy grande , enormealtruismo , valentía , solidaridad , internacionalismo , amor a la humanidad y la vida , compañerismo y entrega absoluta por la convicción de que nada vale más que la ... ¿ quién controla los precios en venezuela ? el más reciente informe del indice nacional de precios al consumidor ( inpc ) , que considera una canasta de precios de bienes y servicios , registró una variación ...
indígenas en resistencia , testigos de la hazaña " sangrienta " , no es un cuento el presidente del parlamento indígena de américa , césar sanguinetti , insiste en la necesidad de rescatar el concepto del socialismo indovenezolano , de buscar esos conceptos en las raíces de los indígenas y que todos los venezolanos seamos partícipes de la solidaridad , la convivencia y la lucha " en nuestro país el fascismo ya estuvo hace muchas horas presente ; en los atentados terroristas , volando los puente , cortando las vías férreas , destruyendo los oleoductos y los gaseoductos , frente al silencio de quienes tenían la obligación de proceder .
estaban comprometidos .
la historia los juzgará el caudal de esa magia lo envolvía y siempre lo acompañó .
ríos de miradas , de brazos , de sonrisas , de lágrimas y de corazones fluían casi sin control en cada lugar al que llegaba .
la cabecera de esa corriente revolucionaria que generó chávez estaba en venezuela pero fue creciendo el español de venezuela nunca figuró en los textos escolares criollos el salvador has one of the toughest anti-abortion laws in the world .
a side-effect is that women who suffer miscarriages are sometimes suspected of inducing an abortion - and can even be jailed for murder . ( 10 / 17 / 2013 7 : 29 : 32 pm ) asian impact .
our furniture is handmade by skilled craftsman and our do not charge you to find your business .
we even guide you to the best deal our own newspaper so you get the best value for money .
you are under no obligations letter : caribbean politicians must address the wrongs of today before the wrongs of yesteryear in the evening , a uscg cutter transported the group to the mayaguez port of entry for immigration processing by border patrol .
stateline — in the west , gop governors skeptical of cap-and-trade , but will watch california that ’ s the beauty of state policy , herbert said , “ these are the laboratories of democracy .
( california ) can experiment and not jeopardize the rest of the country . ”
but herbert and his fellow republican governors at the meeting aren ’ t banking on the program ’ s success .
“ a lot of people are a little skeptical , ” herbert said .
“ they look at the european ( cap-and-trade system ) .
it doesn ’ t get the results promised . ”
“ i don ’ t know if any of us disagrees that there ’ s climate change , ” herbert said .
“ the question is , what is man ’ s impact on climate change ? ”
renewable energy advocates will be looking to michigan on tuesday ( november 6 ) , hoping its voters validate a bold experiment in growing the state ’ s renewable energy portfolio : if at first you ’ re stymied at the statehouse , just but it on the ballot — and in the constitution .
the women probably get fed up with of all of the chest puffing , stubborn and contentious old men .
i know i do .
as at may 2011 we have run out of these containers but expect more soon so please ask us regarding your requirement [ 2011 oct : used 40ft containers for sale : bangkok ] [ new containers for sale : china ] [ suvarnabhumi andrew welsh-huggins and kantele franko | october 18 , 2013 01 : 38 pm est | compare 01 : 38 pm est11 : 19 am est05 : 33 am est and 01 : 38 pm est11 : 19 am est05 : 33 am est consultations are under way to find a successor to yandraduth googoolye as deputy governor of the bank of mauritius . ( ... )
three companies owned by the lagesse and dalais families are in the island ’ s top ten . ( ... )
the last stumbling blocks to the acquisition of 51 % of the equity of bni madagascar by the mauritian indian ocean financial holding have been all but lifted . ( ... )
the ceo of bank one , raj dussoye , is on the way out .
his contract is unlikely to be renewed in august . ( ... )
in 2012 port louis hired a former member of bill clinton ’ s staff to lobby for it in the usa on the chagos islands .
the new contract has gone to someone close to the republican party . ( ... )
the changes in management introduced in the la sentinelle group by the philippe forget-nad sivaramen duo has got up the noses of some of the l ’ express journalists . ( ... )
fbi and atf have announced a reward of up to $ 25,000 for information leading to an arrest.national guard to recall most furloughed employees toy gun scare at benton boys and girls cluba teenager has been removed from an after-school program in benton for bringing a toy gun in her bag . © 2013 indexmundi - all rights reservedvisa news in thailand father of autistic son takes advantage of health care law god ’ s child project donates toys to non-profits thu oct 17 , 2013 9 : 22 pm edt residents reflect on anniversary of bucyrus fire thu oct 17 , 2013 3 : 22 pm edt part of ninth street to be closed for crane wed oct 16 , 2013 9 : 22 pm edt part of ninth avenue to be closed for crane wed oct 16 , 2013 7 : 22 pm edt what ’ s happening in devils lake ?
thu oct 17 , 2013 11 : 22 am edt obit : gladys brockway wed oct 16 , 2013 3 : 22 pm edt obit : evelyn bryn wed oct 16 , 2013 3 : 22 pm edt obit : agnes burdick wed oct 16 , 2013 3 : 22 pm edt getting seeds off the ground fri oct 18 , 2013 01 : 23 am edt tesoro crews work to recover oil from tioga spill fri oct 18 , 2013 03 : 22 am edt duluth man who stabbed roommate with sword is convicted of assault fri oct 18 , 2013 03 : 22 am edt analysis : obama ’ s budget win has strings attached fri oct 18 , 2013 03 : 22 am edt veterans in need fri oct 18 , 2013 01 : 24 am edt restoring minot afb static displays fri oct 18 , 2013 01 : 24 am edt armed robbery at minot enerbase gas station fri oct 18 , 2013 01 : 24 am edt attracting the youth fri oct 18 , 2013 01 : 24 am edt armed robbery reported in minot thu oct 17 , 2013 11 : 22 am edt natural gas flaring gets a double whammy thu oct 17 , 2013 1 : 22 pm edt the 54-year-old , who launched his makeup line under his own surname in 1994 , has spent ten years capturing his island of motu tané off the coast of tahiti . ( 10 / 9 / 2013 8 : 12 : 10 am ) utoya survivor to be deported for lying to enter norway “ i duck it as best i can , ” weiner said .
“ but her reputation has become the woman who married an idiot and stuck with him .
more of it rolls off my back , because that ’ s the way i am constitutionally .
she ’ s more sensitive . "
" i 'm just an empty , soulless vessel , so it doesn ’ t hurt me as much , " weiner continued .
“ one thing i ’ m grateful for is that now i ’ m under no obligation to answer anything like this , ” weiner told gq of questions on his marriage .
“ but we ’ ve had a very rough time .
it causes me a great deal of pain in the way [ abedin ] gets reported and the way she gets discussed .
her treatment in the press has been rough .
it pains me because i deserve it .
she doesn ’ t . "
empty soulless vessel - no , he is a guy that got caught cheating on his wife .
he is a sex addict and needs to disappear from public view .
end of story .
i feel sorry for his wife .
he is not worth the shoes he walks in .
a. weiner is an empty , soulless vessel , but carlos danger is full of life and a soulful crooner .
he is an unemployed empty , soulless vessel .
huma should be checking his internet history on a regular basis seeing as carlos has alot of time on his hands now .
that 's interesting .
i think the same thing about david vitter as the poster child for conservatives .
the biggest difference is that weiner has been ostracized by us democrats ( and deservedly so ) and vitter ( who was known to the hookers in dc as " vitter the sh * tter " ) was forgiven and reelected .
vitter had " ecclesiastical white out " .
weiner did not .
продинфо - новости : цены на продукты питания в беларуси за семь месяцев увеличились на 6,1 % - продовольственный рынок беларуси поискпродукцияпроизводителисырьеупаковкаоборудованиевсе группыалкогольбезалкогольная продукциядрожжизерно , крупазамороженная продукцияконсервированная продукциякрахмал , чипсы , картофелепродуктыкондитерские изделиямакаронные изделиямукамасложировая продукциямолочная продукциямясная продукцияовощи , фрукты , ягоды , травыптицеводческая продукцияпивопищевые концентраты и снекирыба и морепродуктысахарсок , нектарсольспирттабачные изделияуксусхлебобулочная продукциячай , кофе , какаокорма для животныхжиржелатинсода пищеваясухофрукты , цукатымеддетское питаниевсе регионыминскбрестская областьвитебская областьгомельская областьгродненская областьминская областьмогилевская областьлечебно-профилактическаяновинки производителей чуп & # 171 ; белтрансхолод & # 187 ; чтуп & # 171 ; ютэк-бел & # 187 ; оао & # 171 ; полоцкий молочный комбинат & # 187 ; рупп & # 171 ; могилевхлебпром & # 187 ; ооо & # 171 ; гсм-пак & # 187 ; оао & # 171 ; кленовичи & # 187 ; оао & # 171 ; калинковичский мясокомбинат & # 187 ; нп ооо & # 171 ; синергия & # 187 ; главная » новости беларуси » цены на продукты питания в беларуси ...
цены на продукты питания в беларуси за семь месяцев увеличились на 6,1 % 12 августа 2010в беларуси за январь-июль 2010 г. цены на продукты питания увеличились на 6,1 % по сравнению с аналогичным периодом прошлого года .
об этом prodinfo.by сообщили в национальном статистическом комитете так , наиболее значительное повышение цен за этот период отмечалось на картофель ( на 35,2 % ) , сахар ( 29,5 % ) , овощи ( 19,8 % ) , коровье масло ( 15,1 % ) , чай ( 11,6 % ) , алкогольные напитки ( 10,3 % ) , кондитерские изделия ( 8,5 % ) , яйца ( 8,4 % ) , табачные изделия ( 6,1 % ) , молоко и молочные продукты ( 5,7 % ) , сыры ( 5,3 % ) , рыбные консервы ( 5,1 % ) , растительное масло ( 4,7 % ) , мясо и птицу ( 4,6 % ) , хлеб и хлебобулочные изделия ( 4 % ) , колбасные изделия и копчености ( 3,9 % ) .
менее значительное повышение цен было на фрукты ( 1,3 % ) , рыбу и морепродукты ( 0,5 % ) , крупы ( 0,1 % ) .
по данным белстата , в то же время за семь месяцев т.г. цены снизились на макаронные изделия все новости | 2007 , 2008 , 2009 , 2010 , 2011 , 2012 , 2013 в 2013 году число убыточных сельскохозяйственных предприятий в беларуси увеличилось ' carrie ' review : remake more of a lackluster repeatnewsdaycarrie - first look reviewthe guardianopinion : big , bloody footprints to fill for ' carrie ' 1 / 2chicago tribunein depth : ' carrie ' had the power , but mom had the scary going onnprsee all 352 sourcesrelated chloë moretz ( tl5.spain ) , currently the fund 's sixth-largest holding , and atresmedia corporación de medios de communicación philippine beaches may be among the world ’ s best , but the country ’ s marine ecosystem is worsening by the year , a new report showed . ( 10 / 17 / 2013 8 : 08 : 27 pm ) ' there is a need to invest in agriculture .
it 's a the official made the comments at a meeting in the burundian capital bujumbura in the presence of burundian vice-president gervais how to build back institutions that stand in the way of effective recovery , " she she said it is important to know whether set objectives burundi has a lot of potential to develop its economy , she " there is a need to invest in agriculture .
it 's a sector ezekwesili is on a four-day visit in burundi , as part of a project in the capital bujumbura and the prasab agro-pastoral project in central melchior ndadaye came to an end in august 2005 , with the holding of historic he said all appointed officials have the competence in the all of them are not from the ruling party , " he said. that " lack of knowledge and capacity are an obstacle to burundi 's economy union refuse to give ineos “ no strike ” guarantee at grangemouth sitefalkirk heraldgrangemouth crisis : ineos say it is d day for the refinery as they consult ... scottish daily recordsee all 100 sourcesrelated ineos © 2013 indexmundi - all rights reserved tajikistan | reliefweb of “ river republic : the fall and rise of america ’ s rivers . ” disappointed in herbert ’ s decision .
“ in the coming days and weeks , we will questions to the state ’ s division of environmental protection , which did not answer “ this is where we ’ ll figure out who has the political will and connections to get this thing done . ”
the oaks put in by far their best performance of the season on saturday , but still contrived to lose.half-backs ollie shirtcliff and sam ...
commentary : climate change : the present and future prospects in st vincent and the grenadines we use grapeshot as a contextual targeting technology , allowing us to create custom groups of stories outside out of our usual site navigation .
grapeshot stores the categories of story you have been exposed to .
their privacy policy and opt out option can be accessed here . | agencia venezolana de noticias tom cotton is a man of character , a veteran and a conservative . i believe he is a better choice than pryor . mark pryor is a democrat first . i am a voter a i will not vote for pryor . he 's botched hc and rural broadband internet access as well as punted on saving rural post offices .
wildlife : macquarie is home to a large variety of wildlife .
elephant and fur seals breed on the island as do royal , king , gentoo and rockhopper penguins .
the royal penguin is endemic to macquarie island .
other fauna of the island includes skuas , petrels and a number of different types of albatross .
there are no trees on the island although the island is covered by tussock grass and other plants .
red sox in control in game 5 thu oct 17 , 2013 10 : 14 pm edt wilson propels seahawks by cardinals to best record in nfc fri oct 18 , 2013 02 : 14 am edt red sox hold off tigers , move within one win of world series fri oct 18 , 2013 02 : 14 am edt in their shoes : stories of maines homeless fri oct 18 , 2013 12 : 14 am edt red sox hold off tigers , lead alcs 3-2 fri oct 18 , 2013 12 : 14 am edt politics with phil harriman and ethan strimling thu oct 17 , 2013 8 : 14 pm edt northern new england shows off at paris air show sun jun 16 , 2013 8 : 14 pm edt maine man to be sentenced in beating death fri oct 18 , 2013 06 : 14 am edt tea partys shutdown tactics pose new challenges for republicans of all stripes fri oct 18 , 2013 04 : 14 am edt should rsu building plan go to voters in january ?
thu oct 17 , 2013 02 : 14 am edt arundel residents weigh in on proposed camper ordinance thu oct 17 , 2013 02 : 14 am edt windham voters to choose two town councilors fri oct 18 , 2013 02 : 14 am edt new charges filed in 2007 blackwater shootings in baghdad fri oct 18 , 2013 12 : 14 am edt sealsfit participants set to graduate fri oct 18 , 2013 04 : 14 am edt furloughed workers return to work at pnsy thu oct 17 , 2013 8 : 14 pm edt scarborough councilors do not reconsider leash law thu oct 17 , 2013 2 : 14 pm edt and thatâ € ™ s a good thing if youâ € ™ re interested in learning about whatâ € ™ s happening in the atmosphere above the continent at one of the harshest times of the year. â € œthatâ € ™ s the capability weâ € ™ ve never had before : fly at a reasonably constant altitude and constant density surface and remain aloft for weeks if not months , â €  said deshler , a professor in the university of wyomingâ € ™ s department of atmospheric sciences as the line of sight of the gps signal from any of the orbiting global positioning satellites passes deeper into the atmosphere , the signal path is refracted â € ” bent and delayed â € ” by the density changes in the atmosphere .
the refraction is measured by the doppler shift of the carrier frequency of the gps signal , providing information on the pressure , temperature and humidity structure of the atmosphere .
the french team investigated the vortex core mechanics to see how well it isolates the polar winter air .
it is this isolation that allows the air to cool to psc temperatures , and then for ozone to be destroyed by chlorine activated on pscs during the winter. â € œit was a pretty big instrument development activity , â €  avallone said. â € œthereâ € ™ s not enough power on the balloon gondola that we can operate continuously , â €  deshler said. â € œwe have to sample pretty deep into the cloud to see the formation of [ the nat ] particles.â €  st kitts-nevis newspaper ordered to pay pm $ 350,000 in defamation suit commonwealth small states advocacy mission to be led by st kitts-nevis pm “ rice ” conjures up several images in english , but in spanish “ arroz ” is shorthand for paella .
benidorm is now holding the second edition of the resort ’ s jornadas del arroz .
in other words it is a paella festival , conceived to combine gastronomy and tourism , with 19 restaurants participating in the event .
during & # 8230 ; the fourth edition of the painters ’ gathering was held recently on albir beach .
it was organised by the artavant association , with the collaboration of the alfaz ’ s culture and tourism departments . painters met to paint their surroundings between 9.30am and 5.30pm. rain was forecast but failed to materialise and the artists & # 8230 ; maryland to spend $ 6 million to move dhcd out of anne arundel thu oct 17 , 2013 4 : 15 pm edt ’ sound of music ’ soars on compass rose ’ s intimate stage wed oct 16 , 2013 2 : 15 pm edt severn man sentenced to two years in manslaughter case tue oct 15 , 2013 6 : 15 pm edt annapolis ’ paca garden is fertile ground for arundel artist tue oct 15 , 2013 2 : 15 pm edt son of fallen officer throws out first pitch at orioles game fri sep 6 , 2013 12 : 15 pm edt first frozen yogurt shop opens in arbutus mon aug 12 , 2013 10 : 15 am edt taneytown teen and scholarship winner is a veteran volunteer mon aug 12 , 2013 10 : 15 am edt carrolltown mall redevelopment set to begin thu oct 3 , 2013 12 : 15 pm edt portable toilet set on fire in manchester tue sep 10 , 2013 12 : 15 pm edt manchester motorcyclist dies in crash sat sep 7 , 2013 6 : 15 pm edt aberdeen perplexed by attacks on vi ripken thu oct 17 , 2013 10 : 15 am edt mother of cal ripken jr. scares off would-be carjacker in aberdeen wed oct 16 , 2013 12 : 15 pm edt emmorton elementary parents fear for children ’ s safety wed oct 16 , 2013 10 : 15 am edt bel air ’ s vape lounge taps into e-cigarette market tue oct 15 , 2013 4 : 15 pm edt harford school principals can ok advertising contracts tue oct 15 , 2013 4 : 15 pm edt where there is a will , howard ’ s macfarlane finds a way thu oct 17 , 2013 2 : 15 pm edt atholton high present ’ s ’ snow angel ’ thu oct 17 , 2013 12 : 15 pm edt murder defendant sought ’ total obliteration ’ of foes , prosecutors say thu oct 17 , 2013 10 : 15 pm edt police say driver shot by police was ’ determined to flee ’ thu oct 17 , 2013 8 : 15 pm edt checking the city ’ s $ 15.9 million figure on ’ recouped ’ taxes thu oct 17 , 2013 4 : 15 pm edt without words , federal workers are on track to get a pay raise thu oct 17 , 2013 10 : 15 pm edt md . ’ stumbled out of the gate ’ with health exchanges , brown says thu oct 17 , 2013 12 : 15 pm edt poll : obama , o ’ malley approvals drop thu oct 17 , 2013 6 : 15 pm edt zoo vets closely monitor penguins for malaria thu oct 17 , 2013 2 : 15 pm edt officer in trainee shooting thu oct 17 , 2013 8 : 15 pm edt police search for gunman in randallstown shooting fri oct 18 , 2013 12 : 15 am edt remembrance in the park was a tribute to lost lives tue sep 10 , 2013 10 : 15 pm edt md. lawmaker questions steps to cut gun buy backlog tue sep 10 , 2013 8 : 15 pm edt grand jury indicts former hagerstown city councilwoman tue sep 10 , 2013 6 : 15 pm edt us 50 reopened after tanker overturns in wicomico county fri oct 18 , 2013 12 : 15 am edt paving the way for the future by digging through the past fri oct 18 , 2013 12 : 15 am edt who damaged the loys station covered bridge ?
thu oct 17 , 2013 6 : 15 pm edt police : man shoots 1-year-old dog at home in md . thu oct 17 , 2013 4 : 15 pm edt apinya thai food co .
serves up its hot sauces thu oct 17 , 2013 4 : 15 pm edt " now i can say the game is on the path to development , we will work hard to develop the game from grassroots levels , we have learnt a lot " , he said .
meanwhile , kipingu and kassim have organised a refresher course for all dar es salam based tennis coaches at dar es salaam gymkhana club ( dgc ) today .
other courses will be conducted in arusha and morogoro at dates and venues to be announced later .
his name is nicholas miller ! ! ! !
my mothers fiances nephew ! ! !
he has always had issues and yes we all think he is crazy i hope this time they put him away for good ! ! !
i am so glad no children were harmed . so scary for all these innocent kids . he should get 11 counts of kidnapping and another count for the bus driver . not to mention another 11 counts of endangering the welfare of minors , and maybe a gta charge as well . if he had a weapon his charge should be even more . stick it to this guy . he should be gone for awhile .
a year after it tried to reassure french tour operators about air seychellesdropping direct flights to europe ( > ion 1333 ) , the seychelles government is now turning to the private sector to fill the gap in the market via a new airline . ( ... )
the seychelles minister for tourism , alain st ange , is campaigning to be elected ( ... )
who will be the next police commissioner in the seychelles ?
windhoek hasn ’ t yet found anybody to replace gazprom in developing kudu ’ s gas but has nonetheless launched studies on a power plant projet to be supplied by the field . ( ... )
already operating the la libertad and limon gold mines in nicaragua , b2gold is poised to begin building a new mine at otjikoto in namibia in coming weeks . ( ... )
port-louis , 7 août ( ips ) - le tourisme , l 'agriculture , la pêche , la fourniture d ’ eau , qui constituent les vrais fondements de la société et de l 'économie à l ’ île maurice , sont menacés par le changement climatique .
pendant que ce pays insulaire de l ’ océan indien développe ses stratégies d 'adaptation , il travaille pour bien former la prochaine génération de citoyens aux principes de développement durable .
share information through reliefweb to better inform humanitarians worldwide.editorial | cadran politic criza din siria nu mai este de mult o contestare politică a puterii şi nici un conflict limitat în cadrul frontierelor ţării .
a devenit un război civil crunt şi chiar unul internaţional .
este o confruntare sângeroasă în care au murit mii , chiar zeci de mii de oameni .
sute de mii s-au refugiat în alte ţări .
după patru ani succesivi de criză financiară , economică şi mai recent politică ( neo ) liberalismul îşi arată toate hibele .
din 1990 , o dată cu căderea regimurilor comuniste în europa de est asistăm la un asalt continuu al liberalismului şi în ultimii ani ai neoliberalismului .
ni se spune mereu de către politicienii liberali de pretutindeni că statul este „ un administrator prost ” ...
anul 2012 a debutat în românia cu ample proteste împotriva clasei politice şi cu speranţa că societatea civilă din ţara noastră ar putea reveni ca o alternativă în construcţia şi elaborarea de politici publice şi de supraveghere activă a vieţii democratice .
celebra trupă rem , cea care a lansat melodia cu titlul de mai sus nu se mai simte nici ea foarte bine , căci tocmai s-a destrămat , parcă , tocmai ca să întărească şi mai mult pesimismul ce se abate peste lume în ultimele luni .
criza economică , socială şi politică care a început de câtva vreme pare a cuprinde întreaga lume , fără excepţie .
în lipsă de variante , pd a ales să meargă încă o dată pe mâna lui traian băsescu , dovedind că rămâne un partid mic , incapabil să evolueze în absenţa unui tătuc .
a spune că la congres a câştigat emil boc este o glumă condescendentă .
emil boc nu poate să mai câştige nimic .
are o cotă de încredere minusculă , subminată de deciziile impopulare , bâlbâielile administrative , nepotism ...
revoltele populaţiei din statele arabe împotriva propriilor regimuri sunt relatate zilnic în mass-media încă de la debutul lor în decembrie 2010 .
cel mai adesea auzim vorbindu-se despre „ opoziţia pro-democraţie ” care demonstrează în stradă împotriva lide ­ rilor autoritarişti şi a guvernelor pe care le conduc .
este demo ­ craţia compatibilă cu mentalul colectiv arab ?
demo ­ craţia ...
traian băsescu scade în sondaje , dar nu din cauza crizei .
toată lumea ştie că , dintre toţi candidaţii potenţiali la alegerile prezidenţiale , marinarul este cel mai pregătit să găsească şi să aplice soluţii .
faţă de mircea geoană sau crin antonescu , al căror discurs este încă abstract , distant , „ american ” , ca o bicicletă pedalând în gol , traian băsescu prinde concretul ...
administraţia obama diferă foarte mult de cea a pre ­ decesorului său din punctul de vedere al politicii externe .
spre deosebire de provocările cu care se confruntă acasă politicile economice ale lui obama , strategia sa de politică externă progresează rapid , mult mai rapid decât ne-am fi aşteptat .
după preluarea mandatului la casa albă , preşe ­ dintele obama a numit trei trimişi “ super-speciali ” ...
împrumutul extern – o centură de siguranţă , dar pentru cine ?
datele pentru trimestrul al iv-lea 2008 arată că economia românească a început decelerarea şi întrebarea care se pune este dacă avem de-a face cu o reducere a vitezei de creştere ( soft landing ) sau cu o prăbuşire ( hard landing ) .
scăderea creşterii este neaşteptat de mare ( 6,2 % ) , iar cifrele sunt asemănătoare cu scăderile încasărilor la buget pe primele două luni ale anului , de ...
war of words escalates over turks and caicos attorney general turks and caicos premier says being honest and law abiding is pointless open request to caricom to launch an investigation in turks and caicos september 6 , 2013 this comes as a request for caricom to investigate the possible nationalisation of a 1m usd private asset in the tci .
on wednesday the attorney general of the turks and caicos islands announced that the office of the ag had secretly entered and taken possession of a private asset .
turks and caicos to sign international convention on tax transparency as we do our strategic planning i would like us all to keep four important things in mind : the availability of priests and deacons to minister to the needs of our local church and its parishes .
the infrastructure and financial health of our parishes -- how are we doing , how and where are we spending our resources .
how can we insure that our clergy are healthy and able to minister to our needs ?
are we stretching them too thin ?
how can we help them better serve us ?
chad fleischer never won a medal at the olympics or the world championships , but he enjoyed one of the most memorable moments of his generation in ski racing . ( 10 / 17 / 2013 4 : 07 : 29 pm ) © 2013 indexmundi - all rights reservedthailand trade exporters directory for leather the first two suspects were discovered during a search of the khao fah laep and khao saming hills in lop buri 's chai badan district by police from lop buri and samut prakan 's ratcha thewa police station .
mr somkhuan was arrested at his house in samut sakhon 's krathum baen district .
police seized 360,000 baht from mr sirisak and about 1.1 million baht from mr supatcha . another 1.1 million baht was found hidden in a jar at the house of mr sirisak 's wife in chai badan district .
another team of police seized 500,000 baht from mr somkhuan 's house .
the suspect threw a bag containing another 60,000 baht into a bush near his house , according to police .
the suspects have been charged with colluding to rob the bank .
trust noone at the airport and watch for touts and those offering taxis inside the airport .
as of june 2008 there are now more touts loitering around the entrance doors and inside.the airport authoritiews turn a blind eye to it all .
more [ airport scams & thefts ] [ airport scam news ] [ airline news ] [ suvarnabumi airport ] [ cheap thailand of privacy and our company will act accordingly .
see faqs lincoln freshman football vs. sheboygan south | htrnews.com | manitowoc man-news | htr media bill did s congress did he opt out of obamacare . we should have the same health care as congress doesl ever since sarah palin captured the nation 's attention with the juxtaposed images of her toting a baby and toting a hunting rifle , there has been a growing cadre of tough-as-nails women in our popular culture .
we see it on the big screen in the popularity of angelina jolie 's wild spy ...
women and the recession : a chance for some creative destruction ?
are women about to become the majority of the paid workforce ?
according to the bureau of labor statistics , women are on the cusp of outnumbering men on payrolls across america .
while the percentage of men working or looking for employment has been dropping , the opposite phenomenon is occurring amongst women ...
the battlefield to the domestic front : a note on women 's equality day the inspiration of a confirmation : what sotomayor means for women and girls a new day for women 's leadership ?
obama 's chance to get it right the government in exile : what obama can do for women huffpo readers choose ifill or maddow to anchor meet the press playing the gender card : the myth of meritocracy and individuality in america greenland — a local teacher is thankful for the community 's support as he seeks answers to the cause of a debilitating mystery illness . ( 10 / 8 / 2013 2 : 13 : 33 am ) parish information ( select the first letter of the city in which the parish is located . ) abcdefghiklmnoprstvw o naţiune civică | cadran politic mişcarea pentru o naţiune civică susţine revendicările legitime ale populatiei romaniei legate de oprirea derapajului democratic din ţara noastră .
mnc apreciază civismul mişcarilor populare şi condamnă orice formă de violenţă , directă sau simbolică , căci scopul democraţiei este obţinerea şi menţinerea păcii sociale . © 2012 cadran politic · rss · designed by theme junkie · powered by wordpress • invalid entry : please type the verification code again . “ geopolitics of xxi century will be cosmo-humanist in its essence ” – about the power of information and policy of millennium iii with acad .
albert ignatenko | cadran politic home english “ geopolitics of xxi century will be cosmo-humanist in its essence ” – about the power of information and policy of millennium iii with acad .
albert ignatenko we have a project that proved to be functional .
it is already working .
we do not depend on anyone to put it into practice .
and how it looms this elite of the informational era ?
if you ask a psychologist or a teacher , or even a politician “ what is elite ? ” , no one would be able to give an answer … what kind of students are preferring you ?
it ’ s easier if there is a certain educational or spiritual background ?
how will be geopolitics of the xxi century , mr. ignatenko ?
how many such politicians know you ?
because , honestly , i don 't know too many which to give signs of “ spiritual awakening ” … you mentioned ( in a previous interview ) about a conservation program of romania 's geno-found .
it ’ s an indirect way of warning that our nation is in danger ?
« previous “ geopolitica secolului xxi va fi una de factură cosmo-umanista ” – despre puterea informatiei si politica mileniului iii , impreuna cu acad .
albert ignatenko © 2013 cadran politic · rss · designed by theme junkie · powered by wordpressfaq 's for asia trading post buying agents for garment wholesalers worldwide fcl containers .
as at 2011we have 195x 40ft shipping containers for sale which are 40ft fcl & we are the only company who have these containers for sale .
you buy one you own it and you see them on our portal www.asiatradingonline.com our staff are professionals and if you buy an item for 200baht chances are we can get cheaper for you .
the idea is send your pics and we can then buy close to what you want .
pictures are important for our staff as we know many outlets and our thai staff can get better deals far cheaper than any foreigner can get .
remember we are also dft ( dept of foreign trade ) affiliated for germany and can get cos ( certificate of origin ) from find yourself so the commission can canel out if say you are buying .
remember time and money you save using our services .
we also qc all products and make sure you get on time & any wrongs in your shipment we make right plus we do all the paperwork at our depot for you .
we do not use other shipping companies as we are a shipping company so this saves you money other sourcing agents will charge on top .
you can buy some garments cheaper yourself in thailand but using our services we work direct with factories and our thai buyers can get value for money prices on other garments better than a foreigner can get so buying in bulk is what we do best. see www.pattayashipping.com and www.bangkokshipping.com so we make sure what you order is what you get and that if you have a problem we will solve for you .
we no longer accept samples to make on behalf of customers unless for t shirts .
only on receipt of 3000 baht for our time to have made & if you small volumes therefore orders over 1x 40ft fcl loads and you must be an established company .
all our catalogues are on our website and we are buy yourself and let us ship and pack for you : we assist you as our shipping company is based in pratunam on soi 15 petchaburi .
its easy and quicl as all our airfreight can be prebooked for you and out within 1-2 days .
check out the way to do this and have the shops send on your behalf to us [ buying & packing ] we will deliver to your shipper if you do not use our shipping services .
however we only deliver and do not prepare paper work apart from packing list of what we deliver .
it is in your interest to check your shipper as some in bangkok are not registered and there is no comeback on us .
it may be you are offered a cheaper shipping quote but this does not mean you will get your goods at that price .
beware of jubious shipping companies and sourcing agents in thailand as some offer you the wordl but do not have feqs like we do .
also we are one of the oldest interent companies established with credentials .
qu : t shirts : we have manufactured the hottest collection of t shirts on the white palace hotel one of the best not far from our pratunam depot has buffet breakfast , wireless internet in your room and is safe right in the middle of pratunam and our recommendation to stay here you must have a dft certificate of origin to germany or you will not be able to import your goods .
you cannot use chamber of commerce so if you need help we can assist you but we must buy from the appropriate affiliated dft factories .
we are experienced in this .
if you airfreight all your garments will be sent back same with sea freight .
we assist and promote one of the best law offices in chiangmai : www.chiangmailaw.com so please if you have a problem contact us & or our bangkok law office registered member of the dept of foreign trade bangkok and chiangmai registered in chiangmai in thailand .
we also are registered exporters and if chiangmai thailand & ean thai federation of industries .
we are thailand are brokerage fronts who are not true manufacturers with interests as we lose more than you .
it is up to you to notify us if any discrepancies as well as any refunds with 3 months otherwise we reserve the right to keep .
is not cheap so again ask an agent in your country for full costs .
sometimes in say nz they charge $ 2.79 per km just to deleiver so if you can pick up yourself or ask a transport company to do cheaper then that will save costs .
we have our own shipping now .
our depot for packing and fumigation is in soi 62 sukhumvit .
all quotes are workdwide for lcl to containers .
we also clear customs for impoters and handle all logistics around thailand .
for all garment exports our packing is at pratunam only for garments .
our turn arounds are quick and we can airfreight within 2 days of your goods coming to our depot .
we handle everything from cars , bike to cothing and personal and we also can get customs clearance on anything including buddhas and art works. trade ads as well as value for money or your money refunded if no prospective clients are sent individuals wishing to promote their products to the world .
as all ads belong to their respective advertisers we are not responsible for for ads placed by advertisers .
ads are the sole ownership of advertisers .
trading post co ltd by way of contract as at 1st july 2001 .
all infringements will be an infringement but it is still hotly debated .
the new york court of appeals , the state ’ s top court , ruled recently that the state ’ s 2008 law requiring all online retailers to collect a sales tax stands . & # 8220 ; eu , socrate , am învăţat această incantaţie ( descântec ) , acolo , în oaste , de la un medic trac , unul dintre ucenicii lui zamolxis , despre care se zice că îi face pe oameni nemuritori .
spunea tracul acela că zamolxis , care este şi un zeu , ne învăţa că după cum nu trebuie să încercăm a trata ochii , fără să ţinem seama de cap , nici capul nu poate fi tratat , neţinându-se seama ...
17 mai a fost ziua mondială de luptă împotriva hipertensiunii arteriale .
pentru anul 2012 activităţile de celebrare s-au desfăşurat sub sloganul „ un stil de viaţă sănătos – o tensiune arterială normală ” .
scopul campaniei a fost de a informa populaţia cu privire la beneficiile unui stil de viaţă sănătos , pentru menţinerea tensiunii arteriale la valori normale .
elita mondiala a medicinei dentare s-a reunit la bucuresti & # 8211 ; bass 2011 grand hotel rin din bucurești a găzduit în perioada 28 aprilie-1 mai 2011 cel mai amplu eveniment științific al medicinei dentare din românia , cea de-a 16-ediție a congresului societății balkanice de stomatologie . , manifestare patronată de către președintele elect al congresului , prof. univ .
dr. norina consuela forna .
agenda manifestării a cuprins un program știintific variat , reunind ...
operaţiile estetice sunt la mare căutare şi în rândul bărbaţilor în zilele noastre , se pare că intervenţiile chirurgicale este ­ ti ­ ce nu sunt utilizate doar de către femei .
un nou raport statistic in ­ di ­ că faptul că mai mulţi bărbaţi de vârstă mijlocie apelează la procedurile estetice decât altădată .
conform noilor date de la societatea americană de chirurgie plastică ( asp ) , numărul de băr ­ baţi care optează pentru facelift , liposucţie şi ...
specialiştii în controlul infecţiilor se străduiesc să găsească o soluţie pentru gripa porcină care a lovit mexicul , statele unite şi alte zone ale globului .
comunitatea internaţională este mai pregătită ca oricând pentru a face faţă ameninţării ca virusul să se răspândească , asigură unul dintre experţii onu pe probleme de sănătate , citat de bbc .
în primele luni ale primăverii acestui an , majoritatea spitalelor au fost depăşite de avalanşa pacienţilor cu viroze .
în luna martie , numărul internărilor a depăşit 70.000 pe săptămână .
din păcate , s-au înregistrat şi câteva decese în rândul copiilor .
spitalele sunt pline de bolnavi care suferă de viroze , afec ­ ţiune cu debut acut , incu ­ ba ­ ţie scurtă şi care pare a nu fi ...
cancerul cervical este o boală în care celulele normale se transformă în celule maligne ( canceroase ) în ţesutul cervical .
cervixul este porţiunea cea mai joasă şi mai îngustă a uterului ( organul cavitar , sub formă de pară în care creşte fătul ) .
cervixul face legătura între uter şi vagin .
infecţia cu hpv reprezintă cel mai important factor de risc pentru cancerul cervical , fiind ...
diagnosticarea incorectă sau prea târzie a cancerelor afectează milioane de femei cancerul de col uterin , ovarian sau de sân sunt de multe ori diagnosticate greşit sau prea târziu , ceea ce duce la moartea a 70 % dintre femeile care suferă de una dintre aceste boli , potrivit emisarului pe probleme de sănătate al depar ­ tamentului de stat al sua , cunoscuta actriţă fran drescher .
“ cancerul de col uterin şi cel ovarian sunt deseori diagnosticate greşit – cancerul de ...
alimentaţia sănătoasă , mişcarea şi renunţarea la fumat sunt , potrivit medicilor , principalele mijloace de prevenire a diabetului zaharat – maladie cu o mortalitate de aproape 80 la sută şi pentru care , în prezent , un român din trei prezintă risc ridicat de îmbolnăvire .
“ în general , în întreaga lume a crescut riscul de diabet zaharat .
se pare că pro ­ gre ­ sul omenirii se întoarce ...
relatări nedocumentate ale personalului medical din africa şi asia de sud-est scot la lumină un nou curent îngrijorător : medicamente folosite cu succes de ani de zile împotriva malariei , a tuberculozei şi a hiv încep să nu mai dea rezultate .
diagnosticarea eronată a bolii împreună cu folosirea neadecvată sau excesivă a medicamentelor joacă un rol important , mai ales în ţări unde ... © 2013 cadran politic · rss · designed by theme junkie · powered by wordpress media pack now your favourite km group newspaper is available in an will place it on our photo sales website so that you can purchase a classifieds itravel i exporters listings i importers i trade help i business i export ads i publishing i registerbus i to glutinous and long grain rice products.as at may 2010 it all got off to a good start for the dozen or so heads of companies accompanying french president françois hollande on his state visit to south africa on 14 and 15 october . ( ... )
petmin has no end of ambitions for a “ junior . ”
the company ( listed on london ’ s aim and the johannesburg stock exchange ) , which began turning out anthracite at somkhele in kwazulu natal ( ... )
goldplat plc has fleshed out its executive team with the appointment of nigel patrick ( ... )
the leader of the new party agang south africa , who is planning to run in the general ( ... )
françois hollande is very keen on going to south africa clarification from labat africanoua conducere de la beijing- o reală schimbare în politica chineză ? | cadran politic home politică externă noua conducere de la beijing- o reală schimbare în politica chineză ?
sfârsitul de saptamâna care a trecut a marcat un nou & # 8220 ; început & # 8221 ; pentru aparatul politic de conducere al chinei .
sâmbata , 15 martie jiang zemin , 76 , s-a retras în umbra politica pentru a face loc lui hu jintao , 60 , deja sef al partidului comunist chinez si mostenitor declarat al decedatului deng xiaoping ca presedinte al republicii jiang zemin a fost reales de catre delegatii congresului national al poporului ca sef al comisiei guvernamentale în sarcina careia se afla conducerea armatei de 2,5 milioane de soldati a chinei .
jiang conduce si o comisie similara din cadrul partidului si nu a dat semne ca ar intentiona sa renunte la nici una dintre aceste functii .
dealtfel , asteptarile larg exprimate înclina catre o mentinere a unei largi influente din partea acestuia în politica statului , a carui guvern va trebui sa faca fata implicarii din ce în ce mai profunde a chinei în afacerile internationale , precum si cresterii instabilitatii ca urmare a reformelor economice , pe plan intern .
zhu ronji , prim-ministru si principal factor de raspundere în politica economica a predat portofoliul lui wen jiabao , lasând în urma reputatia unui reformator iritabil , recunoscut pentru adresarea directa , sensul umorului si maiestria în administrarea sarcinilor economice , care a jucat un rol determinant în recuperarea economiei chineze dupa criza asiatica .
numirea noului cabinet chinez , care a urmat instalarii lui hu , constituie un crescendo în primul transfer ordonat de putere din cei 54 de ani de comunism în china .
noului cabinet îi revine sarcina de a continua politica de liberalizare economica a chinei , dar si de a mentine un control politic strâns al partidului comunist .
o prezentare succinta a figurilor proeminente ale actualei puteri chineze îl are în frunte pe hu jintao , presedinte , ales cu o covârsitoare majoritate de 2937 voturi pentru si 4 împotriva , wen jiabao , prim ministru si numarul unu ca responsabilitate în administrarea economiei , ales de asemenea cu 2906 voturi pentru , 3 împotriva si 16 abtineri .
enumerarea continua cu li zhaoxing , fostul ambasador al chinei în statele unite si ambasador al chinei la onu ca ministru de externe , cao gangchuan general militar implicat în programul spatial al chinei ca ministru al apararii , jin renquing ca ministru de finante si zhou yongkang ca ministru al securitatii publice .
zeng qinghong , cel mai apropiat colaborator al lui jiang a fost numit vicepresedinte .
el ar putea constitui un rival al lui hu , având reputatia ca fiind cel mai bine conectat tânar lider al partidului si un expert al jocurilor politice .
putine schimbari reale sunt asteptate de la noua conducere chineza .
reforma politica a constituit un subiect tabu de la evenimentele petrecute în piata tiananmen în 1989 , dar noua generatie care vine la putere este fara îndoiala mult mai expusa curentelor de opinie internationale decât predecesorii sai .
de aceea se asteapta din partea acestora mai multa toleranta la critica si o presa mai libera , în special daca aceasta este vazuta ca ajutând la eradicarea coruptiei înfloritoare ce afecteaza imaginea partidului .
în chestiunea taiwan-ului , considerat în continuare ca o provincie renegata a chinei , nu se asteapta o pozitie schimbata din partea noii conduceri .
analistii estimeaza ca aceasta va fi la fel de suspicioasa în privinta presedintelui taiwanului , chen shui-bian si chiar mai precauta în asumarea unor riscuri care ar putea duce la pierderea initiativei diplomatice .
pe plan intern , provocarea majora o constituie preluarea conducerii unei societati de 1,3 miliarde de oameni , aflata într-o stare crescânda de nemultumire datorata luptei continue cu somajul , saracia rurala si celorlalte constrângeri atrase de reforma economica si competitia indusa prin aderarea la organizatia mondiala a comertului .
datorita necesitatii mentinerii stabilitatii pe plan intern , dar si climatului international în care se situeaza china la moment , opinia expertilor internationali înclina spre a pronostica probabilitatea unor schimbari majore în politica dusa de noul guvern ca fiind foarte redusa .
the phony uniter has spent the last several weeks implying suggests , is a party captive to a bunch of ideological crazies grabbing so much federal power or his wanton spending and disregard for the man who could have prevented obama now regrets not the entire government and make sure we do not default on our debts .
after white house on thursday to talk with the president and see where we can and the longer we go on settling for maybe-next-time , for this notion it & # 8217 ; s a challenge , but we can do this .
let & # 8217 ; s get back to work , together. to avoid the economic consequences of not meeting our country & # 8217 ; s way that lets us afford to invest in the things we need to grow .
the truth is , there & # 8217 ; s a lot we can agree on .
but one thing we why a growing number of reasonable republicans say it should end now. can down the road for a couple months , and flirt with a first-ever home .
it would amount to a new tax & # 8212 ; a republican default tax & # 8212 ; on 201220142016afghanistanafricaandrew malcolmann romneybill clintonbooksbudgetcaliforniacanadachicagochinacongressc-spand.c.debatesdebtdefensedeficitdemocratic partydnceconomyeducationegyptelectoral mapelectoral mapenergyenvironmentfloridafundraisinggaffesgeorge w. bushgovernorsgunshealthcareherman cainhillary clintonhispanicshollywoodhouse of representativesillegal immigrationimmigrationiowairaniraqisraeljobsjoe biden updatejohn kerryjokesjon huntsmanlibyamediamexicomichelle obamamichiganmitt romneynasanational debtnational defensenational securitynevadanew hampshirenewt gingrichnorth carolinanorth koreaobamaobama job approvalobama jobs billobamacareohiopaul ryanpollsramadanreligionrepublican partyrick perryrick santorumron paulrussiasarah palinscandalssenatesouth carolinaspendingsunday showssupreme courtsyriataxesterrorismtexastextunemploymentunionsvideowashingtonweekly remarkswhateverwhite housewisconsin lenovo shows interest in possible blackberry bid thu oct 17 , 2013 6 : 27 pm edt cigna ceo cordani thinks affordable care act will evolve thu oct 17 , 2013 6 : 27 pm edt cigna ceo cordani thinks affordable care act wil evolve thu oct 17 , 2013 4 : 27 pm edt parkland searching for a ceo again thu oct 17 , 2013 4 : 27 pm edt landmark snaps up plano apartments as part of $ 98m buy thu oct 17 , 2013 2 : 27 pm edt t. boone pickens makes $ 20m gift to hopkins ’ wilmer eye institute thu oct 17 , 2013 12 : 27 pm edt family says dpd shooting of relative was unjustified fri oct 18 , 2013 12 : 27 am edt what rivalry ?
ou fan helps ut fan into stadium fri oct 18 , 2013 12 : 27 am edt cheers as shutdown ends ; fears for the next one thu oct 17 , 2013 8 : 27 pm edt nolan ryan : decision to retire as rangers ceo ’ weighed on me heavily ’ thu oct 17 , 2013 6 : 27 pm edt mineral wells woman found in freezer died of meth use and cold , police say thu oct 17 , 2013 6 : 27 pm edt dfw businesses thankful that shutdown has ended thu oct 17 , 2013 6 : 27 pm edt weatherford man injured in fight at ballpark in arlington sues rangers , beer vendor wed oct 16 , 2013 8 : 27 pm edt arlington council oks contract to get public feedback on design of abram street tue oct 15 , 2013 10 : 27 pm edt arlington man arrested in defacement of four churches tue oct 15 , 2013 2 : 27 pm edt txdot reveals top toll jumpers in texas thu oct 17 , 2013 2 : 27 pm edt supreme court to hear texas ’ case on epa rules wed oct 16 , 2013 08 : 27 am edt dewhurst calls for obama ’ s impeachment at bedford forum tue oct 15 , 2013 8 : 27 pm edt dewhurst calls for obama ’ s impeachment tue oct 15 , 2013 6 : 27 pm edt to someone who has never injected illicit drugs , all syringes may look similar , but recent research out of the us shows differences in design can be “ dramatic ” and may slow the spread of hiv infections .
while not perfect , politics is the art of the possible .
the perfect shouldn 't stand in the way of the good . not exactly the same as the old fed boss .
under yellen , the markets are less likely to be fooled again .
september 16meet the new fed boss , same as the old boss national parks reopen thu oct 17 , 2013 1 : 10 pm edt dekalb neighborhood hit by dozens of break-ins fri oct 18 , 2013 01 : 10 am edt $ 50,000 reward for solving duluth woman ’ s murder thu oct 17 , 2013 11 : 10 pm edt $ 500,000 camera used to shoot ’ dumb and dumber to ’ stolen thu oct 17 , 2013 9 : 10 pm edt government reopen but srs employees not back to work yet , and not expected to get back pay thu oct 17 , 2013 9 : 10 pm edt two arrested in aiken for soliciting money to bury a family member who wasn ’ t really dead thu oct 17 , 2013 1 : 10 pm edt cartersville high hosts college and career day thu oct 17 , 2013 09 : 10 am edt officers catch burglar in progress at anglin road thu oct 17 , 2013 07 : 10 am edt purser excels in motocross racing thu oct 17 , 2013 09 : 10 am edt ladies in pink wed oct 16 , 2013 7 : 10 pm edt dchs crowns royalty tue oct 15 , 2013 1 : 10 pm edt treasures up for grab at historic macon flea market fri oct 18 , 2013 01 : 10 am edt no one hurt in east macon house fire fri oct 18 , 2013 01 : 10 am edt madd honors assistant da fri oct 18 , 2013 01 : 10 am edt state agencies urge farmers , drivers to ’ share the road ’ thu oct 17 , 2013 01 : 10 am edt expo market provides ’ taste of georgia ’ thu oct 17 , 2013 01 : 10 am edt cyclists pedaling for cancer patients fri oct 18 , 2013 01 : 10 am edt clash of the tartans fri oct 18 , 2013 01 : 10 am edt turner , telfair tangle tonight on gridiron thu oct 17 , 2013 7 : 10 pm edt one advances , two up for grabs in playoffs thu oct 17 , 2013 7 : 10 pm edt sumner teen to spend weekend at talladega thu oct 17 , 2013 7 : 10 pm edt betty cromer locke thu oct 17 , 2013 7 : 10 pm edt alice hilda holton thu oct 17 , 2013 7 : 10 pm edt lost deadline looming wed oct 16 , 2013 11 : 10 am edt vsu receives christa mcauliffe award tue oct 15 , 2013 1 : 10 pm edt farmer of the year nominees honored at banquet in valdosta tue oct 15 , 2013 11 : 10 am edt it 's really no surprise -- the one and only sickness doctors at st. vincent are warning you about is the flu -- and the symptoms like coughs and ear aches top storiesnews near youworldu.s.businesstechnologyentertainmentsportsdetroit tigerslos angeles dodgersseattle seahawkstoronto maple leafshouston texansflorida state universityboston celticsrob gronkowskidetroit red wingspeyton manningsciencehealthspotlighttop storiesnews near youworldu.s.businesstechnologyentertainmentsportssciencehealthspotlightsportswashington postsee realtime coveragealcs : red sox hold off detroit tigers , 4-3 , to take 3-2 lead back to bostonwashington post- & lrm ; 1 hour ago & lrm ; detroit - the task before the boston red sox relievers was both plain and arduous .
it came on a cool , damp night at comerica park , where 42,669 waved towels to distract and annoy.related detroit tigers lebron calls out kg , pierce , doc after trio criticized ray allencbs localnike lebron 11 “ preheat ” | a first lookstupiddope.comsee all 289 sourcesrelated boston celtics case keenum getting first start for the houston texansnfl mockstexans to start untested keenum against chiefskansas city starwikipedia : case keenumsee all 294 sourcesrelated houston texans toronto starsee realtime coverageu of t 's nishi leads leafs goalies on ice for practicecbc.ca- & lrm ; 31 minutes ago & lrm ; michael nishi , seen here playing for the ontario hockey league 's windsor spitfires in 2009 , was the first goalie on the ice at maple leafs practice friday.related toronto maple leafs the daughter of a financial advisor , emily bach once wanted to fall far from the tree .
" i thought i was going to go to law school , but my dad talked me out of it , " she says , laughing .
" we let the professionals do the money management , " she says .
" i do distinguish myself as a portfolio manager , not as a wealth manager , " says rosenau .
" people come to me to manage money for them . "
" you have to understand the reasons for the rally and work through the noise -- from the fed , from the pundits on cnbc , and so on , " she says .
" a healthy correction is inevitable , but i am optimistic for the longer-term growth of the equity markets . "
" it was suggested to me that i should try to start my own practice in the private bank , " she says .
" i didn 't have any clients " -- meaning no dedicated clients for whom she was the lead advisor -- " so that made me nervous . " packing , shipping services .
if you want to buy products in asia use our trustworthy and we are here to serve your interests .
a complete honest research and markets has announced the addition of the " travel and tourism in the netherlands to 2017 " report to thei ( 9 / 25 / 2013 10 : 02 : 00 am ) how ikea ceo ingvar kamprad created one of the world 's biggest brands from the humblest of beginnings , one man rose to the top of the business world with a clear vision and a mind for massive businesses . ( 10 / 14 / 2013 11 : 17 : 52 pm ) © 2013 indexmundi - all rights reserveda change of regime | cadran politic there is a strong rejection of how tra ­ ian băsescu is doing politics .
emil boc ’ s replacement would have worked , if the new prime minister had been a radical change and if he had been a leader who knows what he must do and how .
not the case here .
traian băsescu himself made sure to set the length of the leash from the very beginning .
a number of unprovoked errors followed , and the mru project shrank before it had a chance to grow .
apparently traian băsescu still plans to rely on this project , although not even the democrats had welcomed it .
this has dispelled the myth of the president ’ s invincibility and of traian bă ­ sescu as the saviour .
no one is wai ­ ting for a solution from the president any longer .
it is the second băsescu government dismissed by parliament , which proves that democracy cannot be fooled forever , as much of a player as the president may be .
three years have passed since traian băsescu ignored a parliamentary majority and imposed two minority governments backed by the political migrants who have “ defected ” once again today .
beyond the price paid by romania , which is hard to quantify , the other price is quite clear : the president has become an irrelevant politician , and pd-l – on the verge of dismantling and disappearing as a party .
the democratic union of ethnic hun ­ garians in romania ( udmr ) made a huge mistake , not so much by betraying the johannis project , but by promoting a reverse apartheid , i.e. struggling for the isolation and encla ­ visation of the hungarian minority so as to be able to control it .
i said it back in 2007 : an ethnic party is a mistake and the hungarian problem ( and that of the other minorities ) must be taken over by the romanian parties .
the recent issue of the târgu mureş univer ­ sity is the best example of political stupidity , a manoeuvre that damages the hungarians as well as everyone else .
« previousun adevărat român & # 8211 ; interviu cu asr prinţul paul al româniei © 2012 cadran politic · rss · designed by theme junkie · powered by wordpresssonic ceo sells $ 5.5 million in stock - barrons.com what is this ? a corporate building facility ?
or , apartments ? if someone can answer non demeaning i would appreciate it. trk387 robert _ kjellman : what is this ? a corporate building facility ?
or , apartments ? if deldot dig revealing history by the layer fri oct 18 , 2013 01 : 09 am edt gordon orders a cut to ncco capital recovery fees thu oct 17 , 2013 7 : 09 pm edt man cuffed in new castle county break ins thu oct 17 , 2013 7 : 09 pm edt udel students come foward from mob incident thu oct 17 , 2013 5 : 09 pm edt senator carper reacts to end of partial government shutdown thu oct 17 , 2013 5 : 09 pm edt women robbed at gunpoint by man on a bike thu oct 17 , 2013 5 : 09 pm edt superlift garage doors co . , ltd xiong bangchun this is a garage and for all foreigners buying houses in thailand and property .
ask us for free the best way to buy for your circumstances .
you will not be disappointed .
pcs.production.1.20130918.1036 ( pewsuwvmwapp02 ) huffington magazine this week : the jobless generation | arianna huffington another thingy . monstersanto is pumping these same carcinogens in our food , wouldn 't it be smarter to grow our own , without them ?
long story short : start retooling our economy to run on the jetson three day work week .
newsnews indexlocal newsbusinessdixie statenation & worldnews galleriesstory archiveobituariesobituaries indexplace an obituarysportssports indexprep sportsoutdoorsgolfopinionopinion indexblogsmultimediamultimedia indexvideosnews galleriessports galleriespeople galleriesoutdoor galleriesthen and now galleriesevent galleriesseasonal galleriesall galleriessend us your photoslifelife indexfeaturesentertainmentfaithfamilycelebrationspeople galleriescomicspuzzleshoroscopesoutdoorsoutdoors indexhiking guideexploreoutdoor tipsnational & state parksoutdoor gallerieshelphelp indexsubscribe today ! subscriber servicescontact usstaff listnews tipsarchivessite index news | obituaries | sports | opinion | multimedia | life | outdoors | help l & # 039 ; afd soutient 21 nouveaux projets d & # 039 ; ong françaises pour un montant de 10,3 millions d & # 039 ; euros congo les associations lamuka et edden lancent un projet de formation des jeunes dans le domaine agricole un projet de formation des jeunes congolais dans le domaine de l ’ agriculture , dénommé « l ’ agriculture : réel essor pour la jeunesse ' » , a été lancé le 10 octobre à brazzaville par les ong lamuka et edden ( engagement pour le développement durable et l ’ environnement ) .
ce projet qui bénéficie d ’ un appui financier du ministère français des affaires étrangères , vise à favoriser la réinsertion des jeunes par le biais de la formation professionnelle .
congo la république du congo donne une nouvelle impulsion à la lutte contre la malnutrition la république du congo a adopté , le 8 octobre à brazzaville , un plan d ’ action de lutte contre la malnutrition chronique visant à donner une nouvelle impulsion à la lutte contre ce fléau .
le plan a été adopté lors d ’ une réunion des décideurs , marquée par l ’ adhésion du congo à l ’ initiative sun ( scaling up nutrition , un mouvement mondial qui réunit les gouvernements , la société civile , les entreprises et les citoyens dans un effort mondial pour mettre fin à la sous-nutrition . • unhcr step up assistance to idps in ouham pende despite unstable security situation world + 16 others rapport d ’ activité sur l ’ action humanitaire d ’ urgence en 2012 la france aide chaque année de nombreux pays en difficulté .
en 2012 , les populations syriennes , palestiniennes et maliennes ont été les principaux bénéficiaires de son aide .
l ’ action humanitaire d ’ état fait partie intégrante de l ’ action diplomatique de la france .
elle est guidée par les principes fondamentaux d ’ humanité , d ’ impartialité , d ’ indépendance et de neutralité définis par le droit international humanitaire .
congo l ’ assemblée nationale appelée à se préoccuper du dossier des sinistrés du 4 mars la deuxième chambre du parlementcongolais tiendra , le 15 octobre prochain , sa session budgétaire exercice 2014 .
pour le député de la deuxième circonscription électorale de talangaï ( 6ème arrondissement de brazzaville ) et président du mouvement pour la démocratie et le progrès ( mdp ) , jean-claude ibovi , aucun prétexte ne devra plus être évoqué quant à l ’ inscription , dans les lignes budgétaires , du dossier de la reconstruction des maisons détruites lors des explosions du camp du régiment blindé de mpila , le 4 mars 2012 .
democratic republic of the congo + 1 other mbandaka : les rapatriés du congo-brazzaville se plaignent de leur prise en charge les congolais de l ’ equateur rapatriés du congo-brazzaville se plaignent de bénéficier dune prise en charge insuffisante à mbandaka , leur lieu de transit avant de rentrer dans leurs milieux d ’ origine .
ils ont affirmé vendredi 27 septembre que les familles qui les accueillent à mbandaka sont elles mêmes modestes .
selon eux , le haut commissariat pour les réfugiés ( hcr ) na pas apporté toute l ’ aide promise exceptée la scolarisation des enfants .
ils demandent d ’ être acheminé vers leurs destinations finales à bolomba , basankusu et lisala .  il est estimé que 288 000 personnes se sont déplacées à l ’ intérieur et hors de la rca depuis le début du conflit de décembre 2012  les prix mondiaux des denrées alimentaires ont baissé de 7 points par rapport à 2012 , mais ils sont en hausse dans la région  menace d ’ une crise alimentaire en rca où près de 40 pour cent de la population a besoin d 'une aide alimentaire et environ 11 pour cent est vulnérable à une crise alimentaire democratic republic of the congo + 1 other le hcr aide plus de 100 000 réfugiés à rentrer au nord de la rdc buburu , république démocratique du congo , 3 septembre ( hcr ) – des bateaux transportant plus de 350 réfugiés ont traversé la rivière oubangui vers la république démocratique du congo ( rdc ) mardi , portant ainsi à plus de 100 000 le nombre total des personnes rapatriées depuis le congo dans le cadre d 'un programme du hcr pour le rapatriement .
the note from oconomowoc area schools to parents in june celebrated the success of the year 's " huge undertaking " : the adoption of inclusive practices for special-needs students .
then came the bad news : the district had no choice but to cut the work hours of the paraprofessional staff so critical to ...
attend this free event in the nyc area on 10 / 26 and la area on 11 / 2 to get an overview of how leaderboard has tripled the performance of the s & p 500 ytd .
whether you are new to ibd or a long-term subscriber , our new training sessions are a must !
you 'll get a quick routine for using ibd , tips on key features , and more !
oil driller ipo athlon energy is racing in the promising permian basin , with a new approach.more & # 187 ; he said the sports marketers will be getting a commission on any sponsorship secured as an incentive .
the chabata official said cycling is considered a profitable and sustainable as it can attract people in all areas , urban and rural .
he said his association has already indentified some qualified people who will do the job and he expressed his optimism over the success of the plan . 鑑於兩款暢銷車款的需求增加 ， 加拿大通用汽車 （ general motors of canada ， gm ） 已決定讓安省歐旭華 （ oshawa ） 廠延後兩年關閉 。 gm 17日宣布 ， 對chevrolet impala limited和chevrolet equinox的需求預測表示 ， 歐旭華這家汽車組裝廠將經營到2016年 。 歐旭華廠有一條彈性生產線製造2014年chevrolet impala 、 chevrolet camaro 、 buick regal和cadillac xts 。 gm發言人麥肯錫 （ adri president uhuru kenyatta is caught between his political friends who are pushing him to boycott the icc and his lawyers who tell him he has a strong case . ( ... )
the new head of the anticorruption agency eacc , mumo matemu , has hit against its deputy chair , esther keino , who takes a dim view of his appointment . ( ... )
barely had makau mutuataken up his new job as columnist on the sunday standard , ( ... )
nsis has a new group in its sights in kenya september 30 , 2013 willemstad , curacao -- the first gay pride event in curacao has been cancelled .
the curacao government had set additional conditions in the granting of the permit for the event on the island , which was supposed to be held in downtown punda , the old town of willemstad , on saturday .
curacao clean up picks up half million kilos of trash june 10 , 2013 willemstad , curacao -- a new government was installed in curacao on friday , when governor adel van der pluijm-vrede swore in ten new ministers who will serve the rest of the coalition ’ s four year term .
as anticipated , ivar asjes is curacao ’ s new prime minister .
charismatic entrepreneur sir richard branson has sold his oxfordshire mansion to his children and is living on his holiday island of necker in the british virgin islands . ( 10 / 13 / 2013 7 : 52 : 40 am ) sir richard branson insisted today that he is quiting britain to “ live life to the full ” and not for tax reasons . ( 10 / 13 / 2013 12 : 15 : 24 pm ) jobs : big bosses vow to target depression in the workplace permanent diaconatecalled to servehave you ever had a sense that you might be called to serve god through the blessings you have received ?
maybe you have sensed a call to assist our priests in the daily work of parish ministry .
maybe you have become acutely aware of the many injustices facing god 's people in the world , and you feel a call to try to make a difference .
all christians are called to serve , but perhaps you have felt a desire to move closer to god and his church in order to serve others in a new and purposeful way .
is god calling you to be a permanent deacon ?
by entering into the process of discerning a vocation to the permanent diaconate , you are responding to this sense that god may be calling you .
it starts simply and becomes a journey of self-discovery in service to god and his people.perhaps this website will confirm your personal interest in the diaconate and stimulate a decision to look deeper into what is involved in becoming a deacon in the diocese of duluth . " as our saviour and master said in the gospel : let he who wishes to be great among you , make himself your servant , in the same way as the son of man came not to be served , but to serve and give his life as a ransom for many , you deacons must do the same , even if that means giving your life for your brothers and sisters , because of the service which you are bound to fulfill . " – didascalia apostolorum james tredwell intends to make a decision by the end of the month about whether he should remain as kent captain by the end of the month .
kent wicketkeeper geraint jones has his sights on a “ straight shoot-out ” with sam billings for the gloves next season .
james tredwell insists now is the right time to give opportunities to new faces in the kent set-up .
“ whatever we can do to support this great work , we want to do it , ” duncan said .
and for generations , students from mexico have crossed the border to go to school in columbus .
irwin , the state legislator , recalled that her son was the only one in his eighth-grade class who did not grow up in a spanish-speaking household .
“ if you know english , it opens a lot of doors , ” the legislator said .
friends say woman ’ s cancer treatment at unc delayed by football fri oct 18 , 2013 12 : 22 am edt nc conservationists take fight to protect red wolves to federal court thu oct 17 , 2013 8 : 22 pm edt police dismantle wake co. meth lab operation thu oct 17 , 2013 6 : 22 pm edt nc services ramped down in shutdown get restored thu oct 17 , 2013 4 : 22 pm edt delinquent taxes top views at bristol forum thu oct 17 , 2013 11 : 28 pm edt glade spring mayor calls for cuccinelli to return contributions thu oct 17 , 2013 9 : 28 pm edt ronald mcdonald : be a hero , not a bully thu oct 17 , 2013 9 : 28 pm edt abingdon man competing in ironman to honor niece thu oct 17 , 2013 7 : 28 pm edt man shot in portsmouth , taken to hospital thu oct 17 , 2013 11 : 28 pm edt traffic : hrbt east backed up to king street , downtown tunnel west backed up to campostella and brambleton thu oct 17 , 2013 5 : 28 pm edt chicken , ham products recalled due to possible listeria contamination thu oct 17 , 2013 11 : 28 am edt gm unveils natural gas-powered impala thu oct 17 , 2013 11 : 28 am edt suspect wanted for robbery at lynnhaven mall thu oct 17 , 2013 7 : 28 pm edt u.va. ’ s tenuta shouts and shakes up shaky defense fri oct 18 , 2013 01 : 28 am edt compromise ’ s foes on display fri oct 18 , 2013 01 : 28 am edt goal , interrupted : taking a hike for ian fri oct 18 , 2013 01 : 28 am edt ham it up in your quirkiest nic cage costume fri oct 18 , 2013 01 : 28 am edt where does the gop go from here ?
fri oct 18 , 2013 01 : 28 am edt ap reports feds bring new charges in blackwater shootings fri oct 18 , 2013 05 : 28 am edt altria donates $ 1 million to science museum of virginia fri oct 18 , 2013 05 : 28 am edt va .
paper banishes ’ redskins ’ from its pages fri oct 18 , 2013 05 : 28 am edt baldacci speaks at kick off of roanoke literacy effort thu oct 17 , 2013 11 : 28 pm edt sarvis pitches priorities to 50 students at uva thu oct 17 , 2013 11 : 28 pm edt 22 bands to play benefit for the worx drummer fri oct 18 , 2013 05 : 28 am edt us businessman accused of being mob boss in china fri oct 18 , 2013 03 : 28 am edt apinya thai food co .
serves up its hot sauces thu oct 17 , 2013 3 : 28 pm edt traffic lights out in va. due to power outage thu oct 17 , 2013 07 : 28 am edt victor ponta : românia va rezista majorării cheltuielilor publice ( wall street journal ) românia va ține sub control cheltuielile publice , în ciuda alegerilor care urmează , și va continua să vândă active , a afirmat vineri premierul victor ponta , într-un interviu acordat publicației americane ' wall street journal ' , pe fondul temerilor privind dezacordurile interne profunde referitoare la direcția politicii țării .
corespondență ue și canada au încheiat negocierile asupra acordului de liber schimb ponta : am decis să prelungim cu 30 de zile mandatul comisiei privind roșia montană niță : am aprobat un preț de 24-32 lei pe acțiune pentru oferta romgaz , apropiat de cotația petrom numărul consumatorilor de etnobotanice e în scădere , însă a crescut numărul consumatorilor de heroină marine le pen , vizită discretă la stockholm pentru a discuta cu extrema-dreaptă suedeză excelenta sa jean hubert lebet , ambasadorul elvetiei în românia a vizitat fabrica de magiun topoloveni un ultim test al lotului national frk inaintea campionatului mondial de karate wkf ' sinucidere virtuală ' în masă : milioane de utilizatori pleacă de pe facebook jurnalist britanic : armata siriană a aflat de la televizor despre atacul chimic de lângă damasc anrm : nu există alte elemente ce pot fi exploatate la roșia montană , în afară de aur și argint ponta : respingerea proiectului roșia montană nu este o catastrofă ; mesajul că străinii sunt răi - greșit daciana sârbu : să vorbim cu mândrie despre românia și să îi sancționăm pe cei care ne denigrează în pe victor ponta : am trecut de câțiva ani de povestea că președintele româniei se decide la washington laszlo tokes îi îndeamnă pe etnicii maghiari să voteze în alegerile din 2014 din ungaria teodorovici , despre achizițiile prin programe europene : sunt pentru eliminarea garanției bancare în cazul privaților ponta : protestele din vaslui nu vor încurca discuțiile cu companiile americane pe tema gazelor de șist primul pacient operat la o clinică din bucurești cu noul sistem de implant bonebridge uleiul de măsline și peștele , în fruntea listei ue cu alimentele cel mai frecvent contrafăcute felicia filip : festivalul de romanțe " crizantema de aur " , o mândrie pentru toată românia adrian păduraru , prezentator " crizantema de aur " : mă bucur că și anul acesta festivalul există mihnea costoiu : raportul referitor la cutremurele din estul județului galați va fi terminat la sfârșitul săptămânii viitoare corespondență consiliul cae cere examinarea rapidă a propunerii ce privind liberalizarea exporturilor de vin ale republica moldova în ue corespondentul agerpres , florin ștefan , transmite : miniștrii europeni ai comerțului , reuniți vineri , la luxemburg , în cadrul consiliului afaceri externe ( cae ) al ue , au subliniat necesitatea ca propunerea ...
cunoscute centre medicale din cluj-napoca și companii producătoare de medicamente participă , începând de vineri , timp de trei zile , la prima ediție clujeană a târgului de servicii medicale .
regia autonomă de distribuire a energiei termice ( radet ) constanța începe efectuarea probelor " la cald " în vederea pregătirii furnizării agentului termic în apartamente , au informat , vineri , reprezentan ...
sute de persoane , la coada de carte din fața librăriei litera de pe magheru ; au fost dăruite 5.000 de volume sute de persoane , iubitori de lectură de toate vârstele , au stat la coadă vineri după-amiază pentru a primi cadou o carte în fața librăriei litera de pe bd .
magheru , cele 5.000 de cărți pregătite de editur ...
două persoane au fost luate ostatice vineri de un bărbat înarmat , într-o sucursală bancară din paris , transmite afp , citând surse din poliție .
întrevedere a ministrului de interne cu omologul său din republica moldova , la finalul forumului salzburg ministrul afacerilor interne , radu stroe , a avut vineri o întâlnire bilaterală cu omologul său din republica moldova , dorin recean , la finalul acțiunilor ocazionate de desfășurarea la bucurești a forumului ...
oprescu a solicitat direcției de asistență socială pregătirea adăposturilor pentru primirea oamenilor străzii la iarnă primarul general al capitalei , sorin oprescu , a solicitat vineri direcției de asistență socială pregătirea adăposturilor pentru primirea oamenilor străzii la iarnă .
jucătorul italian de tenis andreas seppi , al doilea favorit al turneului atp de la moscova , dotat cu premii în valoare de 746.750 dolari , s-a calificat în semifinale , în urma abandonului francezului edouard ...
plumbul provoacă în fiecare an circa 600.000 de cazuri de dizabilități intelectuale la copii în întreaga lume expunerea la plumb provoacă în fiecare an circa 600.000 de cazuri de dizabilități intelectuale la copii , pe plan mondial , informează vineri organizația mondială a sănătății ( oms ) , cu prilejul săptămânii ...
femeile care vor să aibă o carieră strălucită trebuie să se machieze ( sondaj patroni britanici ) potrivit a două treimi din patronii britanici , femeile trebuie să se machieze dacă vor să aibă o carieră profesională strălucită , scrie daily mail .
ai filmat sau fotografiat un eveniment ieșit din comun ?
noi îți publicăm știrea .
fiți la curent cu tot ceea ce se întâmplă important în românia și în lume .
echipa de fotbal a româniei a reuşit un lucru în care puţini credeau , calificarea la barajul pentru cupa mondială de anul viitor , din brazilia .
un baraj pe care l-am prins cu destulă şansă , după ce mul ...
producţie record de cereale în 2013 , profituri minime pentru agricultorii români producţia de cereale şi oleaginoase a românei se apropie în acest an de 24 de milioane de tone , uşor peste nivelul anului 2011 , când s-au recoltat în jur de 23,5 milioane de tone , dar cu aproape 70 % mai ...
ai un căţel nou în casă ?
ghidul , pe scurt , pentru începători ai cumpărat un căţel pentru copil sau soţie , ai salvat un biet puiuţ de pe stradă , a fătat căţeluşa vecinului şi te-a impresionat vioiciunea puilor şi ai adoptat unul , l-ai adus acasă şi … vrei să ştii ce ...
zona vrancea este responsabilă de peste 90 % din totalul cutremurelor produse în românia românia a fost zguduită în ultimii 200 de ani de numeroase cutremure de magnitudine mai mare sau mai mică , însă cele mai puternice au fost , de departe , cutremurul din anul 1802 , care a avut o magnitudine ...
s-a născut actorul american , de origine belgiană , jean-claude van damme .
a fost fondat bbc ( british broadcasting corporation ) - serviciul britanic de televiziune şi radiodifuziune .
s-a născut actriţa şi om politic grec melina merkouri , fost ministru al culturii ( 1981-1989 ; 1993-1994 ) ( m .
6 mart .
1994 ) s-a născut filosoful francez henri bergson , laureat al premiului nobel pentru literatură în 1927 . ( m .
4 ian .
1941 ) bătălia de la şelimbăr .
mihai viteazul a învins oastea transilvană condusă de andrei bathory ; întregul teritoriu al transilvaniei a intrat în stăpânirea lui mihai viteazul ( 1593-1601 ) .
( 18 / 28 ) interviu tudor gheorghe : spectatorii vin la mine ca la o firmă ' garantat sută la sută ' tudor gheorghe a declarat , într-un interviu acordat agerpres , că timp de 40 de ani nu și-a înșelat niciodată publicul fidel și de aceea admiratorii revin la concertele sale ca la un produs " garantat sut ...
marele câștigător al festivalului sundance 2013 va fi proiectat la les films de cannes a bucarest două piese noi ale lui katy perry " s-au scurs " pe internet video conținutul acestui site este proprietatea agenției naționale de presă agerpres. buffet breakfast for 110 baht all you can eat and i mean it and also buffet dinner all you can eat for 180 rd ) near soi town in town .
this is the foodmarket of pattaya where you can have popular with expats and those who want to buy their groceries then sit down for just hit " lets ride " & see more pattaya bike week pics [ bang saen bike week 2008 ] [ chiangmai bike week dec 2008 ] [ pattaya useful tel numbers ] [ pattaya best restaurants & eating ] [ pattaya bars ] [ pattaya jet ski hire ] [ pattaya hire cars / bikes ] [ pattaya car / motorcycle reg office ] [ fishing news ] [ check out bang saen ] see stateline infographic : how many jobs did your state create ?
new york expanded its film tax credit to include live television shows , dubbed the “ jimmy fallon tax credit , ” to attract the new host of nbc ’ s “ the tonight show ” to relocate from california to the big apple .
maryland tripled the value of its film tax credit after it lured hbo ’ s “ veep ” and netflix ’ s “ house of cards ” to the state .
worried that colorado was giving too many tax breaks to big oil and gas companies , lawmakers there overhauled the state 's " enterprise zone " program .
the new law caps the amount of income tax credits that can go to large corporations " who certainly don ’ t need the tax credit , " said house majority leader dickey lee hullinghorst , a democrat .
part of the money saved by changing the tax credit program will be used as seed money for emerging bioscience industries .
drop off your old medications fri oct 18 , 2013 06 : 13 am edt meth busts keep coming fri oct 18 , 2013 06 : 13 am edt nauvoo man killed in 3-truck crash fri oct 18 , 2013 06 : 13 am edt ritchey lived as an individualist fri oct 18 , 2013 06 : 13 am edt senators map battleground for days ahead fri oct 18 , 2013 06 : 13 am edt cdc back at work to track the flu fri oct 18 , 2013 02 : 13 am edt pga dream : bulldog swinging for the stars fri oct 18 , 2013 12 : 13 am edt for sale : chucks tradition at stake fri oct 18 , 2013 12 : 13 am edt pesky swine : willie the pig captured thu oct 17 , 2013 10 : 13 pm edt gop nominates state representative for senate seat fri oct 18 , 2013 06 : 13 am edt des moines sees first thefts of rental bikes thu oct 17 , 2013 10 : 13 pm edt sentencing for man accused in motel standoff mon oct 7 , 2013 12 : 13 pm edt missouri man to be sentenced for al-qaida support mon oct 7 , 2013 12 : 13 pm edt firefighters battle blaze at old red oak bar mon oct 7 , 2013 12 : 13 pm edt ’ boo to bullying ’ fundraiser set for sunday in sioux city thu oct 17 , 2013 6 : 13 pm edt belarus wants russia to charge uralkali ceo before any handover “ the bill in the legislature did give the commissioner ( david bernhardt ) the purview to raise the limits , ” ted talbot said .
“ if he saw fit , he could conduct the traffic study , and upon the results of that , he would decide if it ’ s prudent . ”
copyright © 2004-2013 caribbean news now .
all rights reservedasia tradingonline art exporters if you are interested in working for an innovative media company , you can learn more by visiting : blogger marilynn nash visits the headwaters of the wisconsin river if you agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement , you should check the box indicating your agreement to the terms of this agreement on the registration page for the service .
if you do not agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement , you should not check the box but you will not be able to proceed with the registration process for the respective service and become a subscriber .
to the extent you have access to , or are using , a service without having completed our registration process , you are hereby notified that your continued use of a service is subject to many of the terms and conditions of this agreement as explained in section 5 below .
other subscribers and users .
if your access to a service is provided by , or through a third party , or if you have paid for access to the service in connection with your subscription to one of our print publications , or purchased your subscription to the service through a retailer rather than from us directly , some or all of the " fees and payments " and " renewal " terms may not apply to you .
please contact the third party , retailer or our customer service department for details .
if you access a service as part of an " open house " free trial or otherwise without becoming a subscriber , you are hereby notified that all of the terms and conditions of this subscriber agreement except the section labeled " fees and payments " and " renewal " apply to your use and access of the service .
man on bridge prompts water-rescue alert , apprehended by police thu oct 17 , 2013 10 : 14 pm edt toyota recalls 800,000 camry , avalon , venza models for air bag fix fri oct 18 , 2013 02 : 14 am edt mitch mcconnell : ’ i had a weak hand ’ thu oct 17 , 2013 6 : 14 pm edt us jobless aid applications drop to 358,000 online extras thu oct 17 , 2013 6 : 14 pm edt mold issues return to uofl dorm fri oct 18 , 2013 12 : 14 am edt fingerprints lead to arrest in home burglary thu oct 17 , 2013 12 : 14 am edt fingerprints led to arrest in home burglary wed oct 16 , 2013 10 : 14 pm edt 3 charged in meth bust wed oct 16 , 2013 8 : 14 pm edt golden alert for shively man canceled wed oct 16 , 2013 8 : 14 pm edt government shutdown halts pre-registration for liheap wed oct 16 , 2013 8 : 14 pm edt terms of service mon dec 26 , 2011 10 : 56 am est one man shot at thornton ’ s at 7th street and algonquin fri oct 18 , 2013 06 : 14 am edt grimes leads mcconnell by 2 thu oct 17 , 2013 8 : 14 pm edt big o tires hosts makeovers & maintenance thu oct 17 , 2013 6 : 14 pm edt boy , 3 , to donate bone marrow to brother to ’ kick cancer ’ s butt ’ thu oct 17 , 2013 6 : 14 pm edt uofl medical staff emphasizes importance of flu shots , get vaccinates thu oct 17 , 2013 4 : 14 pm edt uofl f chane behanan suspended indefinitely thu oct 17 , 2013 4 : 14 pm edt deliveryservice and you 'll be saving money on the usual cover by signing up you immediately saveon the cover prices plus telephone a member of the km direct team to find out which is best the president of congo-b was not so concerned by the new disclosures about his personal assets , such as jewellery and clothes , as by the fact that france has put new energy into investigating the brazzaville beach massacre . ( ... )
the summer saw major developments at australia ’ s elemental minerals ltd .
after being the object of a takeover bid by the asian group dingyi - which has yet to be approved by the hong ( ... )
congo-b ’ s state-owned oil company and ivory coast ’ s pertroci are now sole owners of the mbk fields discovered by elf in the 1980s . ( ... )
a spotlight has turned seriously at last on congo-b ’ s potash sector .
the country has huge resources of the mineral used in manufacturing fertilizer but up to now no industrial-scale ( ... )
a dispute has broken out over exploration permits for iron ore at okanabora and ( ... )
< a href = " http : / / www.huffingtonpost.com / 2013 / 09 / 17 / alyson-hannigan-nofilter _ n _ 3942001.html ? utm _ hp _ ref = nofilter " target = " _ blank " > really just focus on the positive and see things half full . for a lot of my life i didn ’ t and the day that i did switch over , everything got better . i decided i was sick of being negative and there was a moment where i was like “ i ’ m going to stop this , ” and my life got better from that moment on . < / a > kelly bensimon < strong > what do you wear to bed ? < / strong >
< a href = " http : / / www.huffingtonpost.com / 2012 / 10 / 26 / kristen-bell-shoplifting-huffington-post-celebrity-interview-no-filter _ n _ 2004973.html ? utm _ hp _ ref = nofilter " > my great aunt congratulated me for being in the batman movie . i said " thank you . " it wasn 't until later that i realized she had confused " christian bale " with " kirsten bell " on the radio . < / a > david hasslehoff < strong > if you could ask kim kardashian any question , what would it be ? < / strong >
< a href = " http : / / www.huffingtonpost.com / 2012 / 12 / 07 / christina-applegate-style-fabkids-no-filter _ n _ 2259563.html ? utm _ hp _ ref = nofilter " > " homeland " is a big one . " castle , " " the daily show " with jon stewart . < / a > lisa ling < strong > if you were on a reality tv show , what would it be called ? < / strong >
< a href = " http : / / www.huffingtonpost.com / 2012 / 12 / 13 / lisa-ling-our-america-journalist-pregnant _ n _ 2295818.html ? utm _ hp _ ref = nofilter " > " the boring people club " -- no wait , " the travelers . ” < / a > tatyana ali < strong > when is the last time you cried ? < / strong >
< a href = " http : / / www.huffingtonpost.com / 2012 / 12 / 06 / julia-stiles-silver-linings-playbook-klepto-nofilter _ n _ 2247613.html ? utm _ hp _ ref = nofilter " > be in a rock band . < / a > kaitlin olson < strong > what 's your guiltiest pleasure ?
< / strong > < a href = " http : / / www.huffingtonpost.com / 2012 / 12 / 04 / kaitlin-olson-nofilter-its-always-sunny-in-philadelphia _ n _ 2237097.html ? utm _ hp _ ref = nofilter " > the " real housewives " of wherever . < / a > catelynn lowell and maci bookout < strong > what shows are always on your dvr ? < / strong >
< a href = " http : / / www.huffingtonpost.com / 2012 / 11 / 16 / bobby-brown _ n _ 2143948.html ? utm _ hp _ ref = nofilter " > " ain 't no mountain high enough " < / a > cory hardrict < strong > have you ever set a google alert for yourself ?
< a href = " http : / / www.huffingtonpost.com / 2013 / 01 / 22 / neil-patrick-harris-puppet-dreams _ n _ 2520048.html ? utm _ hp _ ref = nofilter " > neil patrick harris : i ’ m a big fan of the onesie . < / a > bethenny frankel < strong > what did you have for dinner last night ? < / strong >
< a href = " http : / / www.huffingtonpost.com / 2012 / 11 / 19 / bethenny-frankel-last-mean-no-filter _ n _ 2146245.html ? utm _ hp _ ref = nofilter " > i had a cobb salad and oysters and part of a crab cake and a little bit of a grilled artichoke and a lot of different little things that i shared with other people . and truffle fries . < / a > ashley madekwe < strong > what 's your guiltiest pleasure ? < / strong >
[ bang saen bike week 2008 ] [ chiangmai bike week dec 2008 ] [ pattaya useful tel numbers ] [ pattaya digital film ] [ pattaya english breakfasts ] [ pattaya best food ] [ pattaya tesco , big c ] [ pattaya beach ] [ pattaya tourist handy tips ] [ pattaya beach road ] [ pattaya best restaurants ] [ pattaya buffet dinners ] [ pattaya tesco , big c ] [ pattaya beach ] [ pattaya tourist handy tips ] [ pattaya beach road ] [ pattaya best restaurants ] [ pattaya bars ] [ pattaya jet ski hire ] [ pattaya hire cars / bikes ] [ pattaya driving license ] [ pattaya car hire ] [ pattaya motorcycle hire ] [ pattaya pickups & loads ] [ pattaya car / motorcycle reg office ] [ pattaya police & foreign volunteers ] [ pattaya scams ] [ pattaya property scams ] [ buying cars in thailand ] [ buying motorcycles in thailand ] [ pattaya bike week 2009 ] [ bang saen bike week 2008 ] [ fishing news ] [ check out bang saen ] [ more bang saen pics ] [ cambodia fishing tours ] [ sihanoukville they had to ask for directions , but the friend in the car knew where a hospital was ?
seems a bit odd or maybe it was close by ..
but if so it would seem easy to figure out where it occurred .
aitken spence boosts fiji port efficiencies by 35 pc in two months two-time defending champions fiji lost to wales on the way to clinching the top spot in their pool on the opening day of australia 's gold coast irb sevens on saturday . ( 10 / 12 / 2013 8 : 24 : 35 am ) “ racordarea macrosistemelor ” & # 8211 ; acesta este mesajul convenabil când încercăm să explicăm pe înţelesul cetăţenilor construcţia europeană .
şi cum să nu fie aşa , când doar la bruxelles 100.000 de oameni se află în capitala belgiei fiindcă bruxelles-ul este şi “ capitala de facto a europei ” .
specificul bruxelles-ului constă în conglomeratul instituţiilor europene şi a ...
românia – china : de la o agendă de bune intenţii la rezultate concrete ?
la început de miez de vară , agenda premierului româniei , victor ponta , a inclus un turneu asiatic , în cursul căruia a avut numeroase întâlniri bilaterale printre care cele mai semnificative fiind cele cu omologul său chinez & # 8211 ; li keqiang , cu şeful guvernului din hong kong & # 8211 ; leung chun-ying şi chiar cu noul preşedinte al chinei , xi jinping .
ecuaţia puterii a fost întotdeauna una foarte complicată în românia .
s-ar putea spune , pe bună dreptate , că am început cu stângul .
teroarea comunistă a dus , conform principiului acţiunii şi reacţiunii din fizică , la o destindere a resorturilor democratice care a produs jdemii de mişcări politice şi haos .
pe de altă parte , după 45 de ani de educaţie privind socialismul multilateral ...
usl îşi vede visul cu ochii .
ceilalţi luptă pentru a căpăta statutul de partide stabilitatea politico-socială .
o sintagmă care a devenit o obsesie naţională .
în condiţiile în care marea majoritate a românilor se consideră jignită de presupunerea că nu s-ar pricepe la politică , iar o altă parte rosteşte cu emfază , sentenţios , „ nu mă pricep , nu mă interesează ” , stabilitatea politico-socială străbate ca un coşmar somnul care a cuprins civismul românesc ....
usl , teatrul disensiunilor .
despre cei obligaţi să susţină unitatea puterii am avut impresia că lucrările comisiei parlamentare pentru modificarea constituţiei vor fi un fel de simpozion ştiinţific pe detalii tehnice , ştiţi dumneavoastră , ceva în genul echipei de instalatori care vin şi fac să nu-ţi mai curgă robinetul .
nu înţelegi prea bine ce meşteresc acolo , dar în final e ok , îţi convine .
mă bucur că nu e aşa , că m-am înşelat .
s-a încheiat , previzibil , și congresul pd-l , care a consfințit despărțirea de traian băsescu .
ca un copil , acesta s-a ofticat și și-a luat jucăriile certându-i pe cei care n-au mai vrut să se joace cu el .
dintr-o dată , pd-l nu mai era un partid democrat , ci tributar fesenismului .
cât l-a servit cu credință fusese bun .
până la urmă , este și asta o formă de recunoaștere a eșecului ...
ne pasă de ţara noastră , chiar mai mult decât credem .
ne interesează ce imagine are românia , oriunde ne-am afla .
nu suntem indiferenţi la criticile adresate nouă , românilor , şi urmărim cu mare interes performanţele liderilor aleşi pentru a conduce destinele plaiurilor mioritice .
tema regionalizării administrative domină de ceva vreme agenda publică în materie de reformă administrativă .
din punct de vedere politic pare un moment propice , atât timp cât udmr nu este la guvernare şi riscul confundării regionalizării cu regionalismul , este limitat .
populaţia româniei este concentrată în proporţie de 44,8 % în mediul rural .
însă , dacă avem în vedere că 13 oraşe au mai puţin de 5.000 de locuitori , 60 de oraşe au până în 10.000 de locuitori , multe oraşe şi municipii au în componenţă sate , iar multe nu îndeplinesc condiţiile minimale impuse de legislație pentru statutul de oraş sau municipiu , ...
acum câţiva ani am hotărât să „ joc politic ” , iar cei care mă cunosc ştiu că nu glumesc cu astfel de vorbe !
m-am implicat în campania electorala din noiembrie 2008 , sprijinind candidaturile lui marian popescu şi marian mocanu pe posturile alocate celor din diaspora !
mă bucur să constat că cel care ne-a stat alături atunci , philip cordery , secretarul general al partidului socialiştilor ... © 2013 cadran politic · rss · designed by theme junkie · powered by wordpressbeware falling profit estimates - barrons.com © 2010 cadran politic · rss · designed by theme junkie · powered by wordpress bangladesh crude oil consumption by year ( thousand barrels per day ) in true contrarian fashion , a bottom was not that far off .
recent ads incline me to believe that we 're closer to the greed end of the spectrum , which is not a good sign .
i could go on and on , of course .
but you get the point .
in a chilling ' it happened to me ' column for xojane , daisy coleman , one of two teenage victims at the center of the now-intensely publicized maryville rape case , shares her story in her own words .
she discusses her life as a 14-year-old cheerleader , her 2012 ...
there is no luck required for diners searching for a comfort food and fun atmosphere at benson ’ s hard 8 in union .
with the increasing popularity of prepaid cards , it is no surprise that businesses are now u & hellip ; us debt crisis spurs chinese calls for ' de-americanized ' worldwashington postbeijing should cut back its lending to washingtonfinancial timessee all 114 sourcesrelated china the early nihl south division 1 pacesetters wightlink raiders stand in the way of invicta dynamos this weekend .
officers cordoned off all access to the town ’ s main square and adjoining streets .
he was eventually caught hiding in a gully near the town and was arrested .
central african republic 's ousted president françois bozize has been in france since the end of july but he has not managed to get an audience with the french president . ( ... )
the important oil and mines ministry was cut in two in central african republic ’ s ( ... )
god and the world : a conversation with peter seewaldbehold the pierced oneon the way to jesus christcalled to communion : understanding the church todayco-workers of the truthdaughter zion : meditations of the church 's marian belief gospel , catechism and catechesis : sidelights on the catechism of the catholic church in the beginning ... "
a catholic understanding of the story of creation and the fall eschatology : death and eternal lifeimages of hope : meditations on major feastsvalues in a time of upheavalon the way to jesus christgod 's revolution : world youth day and other cologne talkschurch , ecumenism and politicsjesus of nazarethgod 's word : scripture , tradition , officenew outpourings of the spiriteurope : today and tomorrowthe dialectics of secularization united arab emirates crude oil consumption by year ( thousand barrels per day ) " this is not an earmark , " reid told reporters .
" it saves the taxpayers lots of money . "
he added , " one of the tricks around here , one of the abuses around here , is you get a big bill that needs to go forward and needs to pass , and the people try to load it up with things that are important to them .
in the long run , that 's not good for the public . " namaholston : sneaked in ?
clearly this " sweet deal " was the final negotiation mitch mcconnell is a discrase and a tratior to the republican party , kentucky , and most of all the american people .
can it be any clearer ?
we are the proverbial third " world " .
the president and dem majority leader buy off the rep leadership in an effort to move their bill through the house .
overt sleeze .
we as citizens are just laughed at .
in plain sight , the sausage is made .
read the article as it is misleading .
it was obama .
common sense is big o that signed it .
please be careful of bad publicity about company 's in pattaya that arecharging has much has 70-80,000 baht up front for a visa plus the embassy fee ask 10,000 deposit and if they fail to obtain the visa then they refund the 10,000 in full or you say try again we do not ask for any more money even if we have to do 5 times but the embassy fee has to be paid every time the company 's to stear clear off are easy visa and key visa remember you have been conned .
be careful once these people have got your money you have no chance of getting it returned only further expense * holders of a certificate of entitlement confirming right of abode in the united kingdom .
vague , i want to be with _ _ _ _ _ or i want to see the uk will not suffice .
4 / .
documentation of interests : " while in the uk i would very much 7 / .
if in doubt , to any degree of questions to be answered in writing , the 10 / .
avoid if at all possible any mention of a personal relationship .
abdelwaheb ben ayed , known as tunisia ’ s “ chicken king ” has turned his attention to the country ’ s highways .
his ( ... )
worried about the survival of the nidaa tounes party ( its “ destourian ” and “ leftist ” wings constantly clash ) , the movement ’ s president , beji caid essebsi has taken it upon himself ( ... )
a former senior executivemarathon oil in tunisia between 1983-96 .
mongi haffouz ( ... )
it will be up to the governor and lawmakers to decide which recommendations to push in the coming session .
facilities for young drug addicts needed urgently na henry muhanika may 1 , 2013 did you know that the puerto rico bacardi distillery is the largest rum distillery in the world ?
the distillery is located close to old san juan .
if you are planning to visit puerto rico , be sure to include this place in your itinerary .
bush tea to become mcdonalds menu item in usvi and puerto rico the northern cross - schoolsend of school year testing is done — now what ?
the last pile of snow has melted on the playground , the sun feels powerfully warm , and our students have put away school vests and sweatshirts .
it is the end of another school year at st. joseph ’ s school .
monique has two sons .
she studied law and political science and has a diploma from the paris centre de formation des journalistes .
she lives in london .
the labor recruiter told nayantara of a well-paying position as a maid in the middle east .
she left her job at a carpet factory in nepal to find she had been sold to a brothel in india .
nayantara was enslaved and forced to have sex with 35 men a day ...
land the job you love ! : 10 surefire strategies for jobseekers over 50 rais kikwete aondoka addis ababa baada ya kuhudhuria kikao cha siku moja it ’ s sunday , and tony feist talks with a fishing ship captain , who is on a satellite phone in the pacific ocean .
feist needs to airfreight parts to american samoa in order to fix the captain ’ s boat . ( 9 / 18 / 2013 9 : 26 : 29 am ) bergstrom automotive recognized among the top 20 dealerships to work for in u.s. fri oct 18 , 2013 06 : 20 am edt few able to sign up for obamacare in wisconsin fri oct 18 , 2013 06 : 20 am edt ’ stock the shelves ’ off to strong start fri oct 18 , 2013 06 : 20 am edt portage considers bow hunt in city sun oct 6 , 2013 2 : 20 pm edt prairie view to celebrate reopening sun aug 25 , 2013 10 : 20 am edt in war wind-down , veterans ’ new mission is college fri oct 18 , 2013 06 : 20 am edt cuban entrepreneurs gird for ban on import sales fri oct 18 , 2013 02 : 20 am edt homes destroyed by wildfires raging in australia fri oct 18 , 2013 12 : 20 am edt deadline is oct .
31 for sturgeon spearing fri oct 18 , 2013 06 : 20 am edt walleye weekend funnels $ 225,529 back to community fri oct 18 , 2013 06 : 20 am edt keeping on track in north fond du lac fri oct 18 , 2013 06 : 20 am edt grandparents who travel to care for grandchildren are a growing trend mon jul 29 , 2013 6 : 20 pm edt sex offender breaks his probation , off to prison fri oct 18 , 2013 02 : 20 am edt janesville man charged with 4th owi wed oct 16 , 2013 08 : 20 am edt prep football : roncalli routs kewaunee for op-large title fri oct 18 , 2013 06 : 20 am edt wiaa boys soccer : warhawks end ships ’ season fri oct 18 , 2013 06 : 20 am edt october blues are the richest colors of the year fri oct 18 , 2013 06 : 20 am edt assembly passes walker ’ s property tax cut fri oct 18 , 2013 06 : 20 am edt pulaski man charged with 11th owi offense wed aug 14 , 2013 02 : 20 am edt health can be factor in county planning wed aug 14 , 2013 02 : 20 am edt the latest news aggregated from top sources around the web this week in flagler history wed oct 16 , 2013 02 : 10 am edt toxicology report in adamski crash released fri oct 18 , 2013 12 : 10 am edt las olas art fair has pink tinge this year thu oct 17 , 2013 6 : 10 pm edt kim rothstein jeweler and alleged ’ fence ’ expected to plead out friday thu oct 17 , 2013 2 : 10 pm edt mistrial for ’ big tony ’ in boulis murder case thu oct 17 , 2013 8 : 10 pm edt templeton taking leave from citrix ceo post thu oct 17 , 2013 04 : 10 am edt a year later , death of man found on beach in deerfield unsolved wed oct 16 , 2013 8 : 10 pm edt lake worth couple accused of subleasing townhome despite eviction thu oct 17 , 2013 8 : 10 pm edt new ordinance to allow food trucks back in boynton thu oct 17 , 2013 8 : 10 pm edt angry ex calls woman ’ thousands ’ of times , records gunshots in voicemails , say police thu oct 17 , 2013 6 : 10 pm edt man punches grandma in the head , slashes grandpa ’ s tires in fit of anger , deputies say thu oct 17 , 2013 4 : 10 pm edt mistrial for ’ big tony ’ in boulis murder case photos fri oct 18 , 2013 06 : 10 am edt kim rothstein jeweler expected to take plea today fri oct 18 , 2013 06 : 10 am edt confusion plaguing " obamacare " still major hurdle in florida thu oct 17 , 2013 12 : 10 pm edt gru gm bob hunzinger announces plans to resign thu oct 17 , 2013 12 : 10 pm edt bedbugs on the rise nationally , but not in uf dorms fri oct 18 , 2013 02 : 10 am edt new gator gear store to open in butler plaza fri oct 18 , 2013 02 : 10 am edt man stabbed to death in fight in lake city thu oct 17 , 2013 8 : 10 pm edt csx to build $ 50m hub in pittsburgh thu oct 17 , 2013 6 : 10 pm edt suspect known as ’ hardhead ’ lives up to name fri oct 18 , 2013 04 : 10 am edt fcn heads to london for jags vs. 49ers fri oct 18 , 2013 12 : 10 am edt shutdown may have put researcher ’ s trip on ice fri oct 18 , 2013 12 : 10 am edt fcn heads to london for jags vs. 49ers fri oct 18 , 2013 02 : 10 am edt local linemen to duke it out thu oct 17 , 2013 2 : 10 pm edt shopping cart race to hep food pantry thu oct 17 , 2013 06 : 10 am edt canes win in final seconds against heels fri oct 18 , 2013 12 : 10 am edt fitness apps may be unhealthy for users privacy fri oct 18 , 2013 12 : 10 am edt o ’ mara drafting law to make parents liable for cyberbullying fri oct 18 , 2013 02 : 10 am edt mistrial declared for anthony big tony moscatiello thu oct 17 , 2013 6 : 10 pm edt ’ big tony ’ mistrial is latest twist in gus boulis saga thu oct 17 , 2013 10 : 10 pm edt rain or no rain , beachfront streets flood due to ’ spring tide ’ thu oct 17 , 2013 10 : 10 pm edt prison term for fla .
man who shipped pills to wva fri oct 18 , 2013 06 : 10 am edt lawmen tackle toothy battery cases fri oct 18 , 2013 02 : 10 am edt padgett returns to county post thu oct 17 , 2013 8 : 10 pm edt kaleta deals reap $ 105,000 fri oct 18 , 2013 02 : 10 am edt shutdown slows arrival of pickers fri oct 18 , 2013 02 : 10 am edt sarasota real estate frauds are basis for crime novel fri oct 18 , 2013 12 : 10 am edt were you in tampa when kennedy spoke ?
fri oct 18 , 2013 12 : 10 am edt remembering actor ed lauter and our night in bradenton thu oct 17 , 2013 8 : 10 pm edt riders opposed to merger of sarasota and manatee buses thu oct 17 , 2013 6 : 10 pm edt sheena morris death case to be on ’ 20 / 20 ’ thu oct 17 , 2013 6 : 10 pm edt it ’ s all happening : trader joe ’ s to open in pinecrest - slideshow thu oct 17 , 2013 4 : 10 pm edt persistence pays off for harry kember fri oct 18 , 2013 02 : 10 am edt lisa spears ’ walking one day at a time ’ fri oct 18 , 2013 02 : 10 am edt seminoles push for preservation of erosion-plagued egmont key fri oct 18 , 2013 02 : 10 am edt fennelly : freeman can add to bucs ’ misery fri oct 18 , 2013 02 : 10 am edt twerk workout unleashes inner vixen fri oct 18 , 2013 12 : 10 am edt square 1 burgers branches out thu oct 17 , 2013 4 : 10 pm edt fishhawk mermaid forms nonprofit to aid children thu aug 8 , 2013 6 : 10 pm edt germans finding a slice of home at heidi ’ s gourmet hut in brandon wed aug 7 , 2013 8 : 10 pm edt trick or treat at history center ’ s ’ night at museum ’ thu oct 17 , 2013 12 : 10 pm edt five questions with jon locklear and his daughters thu oct 17 , 2013 8 : 10 pm edt things to do in the south tampa area thu oct 17 , 2013 4 : 10 pm edt south florida jeweler patrick daoud caught up in scott rothstein ’ s ponzi scheme fri oct 18 , 2013 06 : 10 am edt a kiribati man has asked a nz court to let him persue his claim as a climate change refugee . ( 10 / 16 / 2013 3 : 12 : 00 am ) to every one of you individually , to all people organised together in villages , in cooperatives , in professions , voluntary organisations contributing to our development , to all honest workers in government and parastatals – to everybody – i say thank you very much .
i am a human being , and we all like our work to be appreciated .
so i thank you for what you have said in my praise in so many public and private meetings .
and i thank those elected leaders and officials in government and the party who by their advice and research work have helped me carry out my duties .
and the truth is that in praising me you have been praising your own judgement !
for my chance to play the role i have played in our joint work has been the result of your decisions , and your actions in voting for me and loyally upholding our constitutional processes .
i thank you all for entrusting me with such a responsible and prominent part in our joint nation-building work , and for continuing to give me your active support as i tried to fulfil your trust .
it is you who have won that respect .
my job has been to explain the circumstances and the choices facing us .
so i have tried to explain the way i , together with the party and the other members of the government , believe the problems can be tackled in conformity with our national principles of human equality and freedom .
but in all cases we have lived up to our african traditions , and served the cause of future peace and justice in our continent .
once again – and as i said when receiving it – it is you who really earned the nansen medal which i received on your behalf for our work for refugees .
once again , i get praised internationally for this absence of tribalism and racial discrimination in tanzania , but you are responsible .
all i can do is speak and make just a handful of appointments ; the rest of the action is yours .
i thank you very much .
finally , i am grateful to you for choosing ndugu ali hassan mwinyi to receive the honour and to bear the burden of the presidency .
i thank you all very much .
now let us help him .
god bless africa !
god bless tanzania .
« previouscât ar trebui să fie salariul minim şi de ce unions put off bay area transit strike for a dayusa todaybart : san francisco bay area transit strike avertedpoliticosee all 624 sourcesrelated san francisco bay area rdc : les combats font des milliers de nouveaux déplacés dans le nord-kivu des hélicoptères de l ’ armée congolaise , les fardc , ont lancé une attaque , mercredi , près du quartier-général des rebelles du m23 .
l ’ information a été confirmée par les deux camps , mais le président du m23 , bertrand bisimwa , dément que ses positions aient été touchées durant l ’ attaque . & rdquo ; il n ’ ont attaqué aucune cible militaire , & bdquo ; dit bisimwa ; & rdquo ; ils n ’ ont attaqué que des maisons et des résidents aux alentours de rumangabo . & bdquo ; des médecins de la localité affirment que plusieurs enfants ont été tués et des maisons détruites .
les victimes seraient au nombre de quatre — trois enfants et un adulte — selon un médecin d ’ un hamuli ) a démenti l ’ information .
une patrouille de l 'armée congolaise à kibati , une patrouille de l 'armée congolaise à kibati , le 22 juillet 2013 la reprise des combats dans le nord-kivu a augmenté le nombre de personnes déplacées soit vers la capitale de la province , goma , soit vers d ’ autres villes ou même vers d ’ autres pays de la région .
ecoutez imane cherif , chargée d ’ information à l ’ agence humanitaire de l ’ onu , ocha , au nord-kivu , nous décrire la situation .
a washington , le département d ’ etat a lancé un appel au rwanda pour qu ’ il cesse tout appui aux rebelles du m23 et fasse le retrait de ses soldats de la république démocratique du congo . & rdquo ; nous croyons qu 'il y a un ensemble de preuves crédibles qui supportent les principales conclusions du rapport de human rights watch , y compris le soutien de hauts responsables rwandais au m23 et la présence de militaires rwandais en rdc .
nous appelons le rwanda à cesser immédiatement tout soutien au m23 , a retirer son personnel militaire de l 'est de la rdc et donner suite à ses engagements au titre de l ’ accord-cadre signé ( entre les pays de la région , & bdquo ; a dit jen psaki , porte-parole du département d ’ etat .
dans un entretien avec le service francophone de la voa , l ’ ambassadeur du rwanda aux etats-unis , mathilde mukantabana , a rejeté la thèse du soutien de kigali au m23 , disant que le rapport de human rights watch est entaché d ’ erreurs et ne 10 / 5 / 2012 - working in antarctica - are you up to the challenge ?
working in antarctica – are you up to the challenge ? exploded in burundi 's capital bujumbura as revellers were ushering in the new of midnight , a grenade exploded in the buyenzi neighbourhood , killing one and in the capital and across the country but two other grenades exploded in the © 2013 indexmundi - all rights reserved the u.s. blows everyone else out of the water in 1 key way - it was announced in october that he will be knighted for his services in the u.k.9.
liliane bettencourt < a href = " http : / / www.forbes.com / billionaires / gallery / liliane-bettencourt ? utm _ source = huffingtonpost.com & utm _ medium = partner & utm _ campaign = billionaires % 2b2013 & partner = huffpo " > net worth : $ 30 billion up - now the world ’ s richest woman .
she last cracked the top 10 in 1999 . -gearing up for the america ’ s cup yacht races in san francisco later in 2013. pledgers include richard branson of the u.k. and india ’ s azim premji .
millionaires can rest easy , buffett rule still has loopholes to exploit i thought it was verbal flatulance from the tea party .
so , for those of you who think that us is so bad ... that we have too many " rich folk " , what do you propose we do to make things better ?
how do you propose to make sure everyone gets an equal chance at success ( which btw already exists ) ?
what would you as individuals do any differently to ensure your slice of the money pie ?
who should be more willing to pay for the army that protects his wealth ?
the serf with a little silver in his pocket or the guy with a chest full of gold .
so who do you consider " rich " ? ?
your neighbor who has a newer model car ?
you going to start chopping your neighbors heads off ? shalomfarganssun : so who do you consider " rich " ? ?
your neighbor who has she thanked customers and stakeholders for their patience and support as liat transitions from its dash-8 fleet to new atr aircraft : " this change of fleet is a major investment for the company with a cost of us $ 107 million . "
she was pleased to note , however , that on several routes , " our passengers are already experiencing the comfort of our new atr 72s . "
a shouting stenographer was removed from the house floor as lawmakers voted on a deal to reopen the government and avoid a debt crisis .
the stenographer began shouting as the the house approved the number of votes needed to pass the bill .
according to reporters , she was yelling about god and freemasons : cut to a ' justice reporter , ' the guy is bumming around at home in his pj 's , professional !
no religion likes freemasonry because it allows all religions with equality and treats people on their merits not the color of their skin or who they call god .
it 's a shame that bigotry is alive and well in the us though , this anti-masonic foaming at the mouth conspiretard nonsense is offensive , not to me as a freemason , but to me as a rational man of common sense and decency. bashpr0mpt : cut to a & # 039 ; justice reporter , & # 039 ; the guy is bumming around repubdisinformationsux : what , did she think she really was at the " value the vote was succeeding to re-start the nation , someone who was supposed to be doing her job goes berserk .
i couldn 't tell the difference between her and the members of the tea party .
for nearly a century the sower has been of help and assistance in catholic education .
we offer creative ideas and methods to give you confidence in accessing and passing on the riches of the faith in all its holiness , beauty and integrity .
published four times a year , the sower is a publication of the maryvale institute in birmingham , england .
click here to subscribe to the sower review and visit the rest of the website , http : / / www.thesowerreview.org / index.asp in the russian federation and subsequent decision by the country to ban a report summarizing the accomplishments of the u.s. humanitarian mine the prs 2 presents the first three-year plan to operationalize the country 's to serve as a medium-range socio-economic development programme for the in the scope and quality of social services aimed at easing the burden the focus of the research is on eu 's funding programmes in 2004-2007. do exist as the main perquisites such as financial institutions for delivery , in wfp and among the ngos and some investment would be needed in order and langar villages of kalai-surkh jamoat , and kochamandi village of nusratullo mitigation in order to forestall costly damage to the economy , population , do not take steps to prepare for and mitigate the effects of drought , damage one of the most depressing things i heard on the first day of the government shutdown was that it was a record fundraising day for both parties .
washington , d.c. , is no longer about governing ; it is just about winning and losing .
but the people who will lose the most during ...
i have been literally disgusted at how " politics " has dominated the media 's response and coverage of the syria crisis .
literally millions of lives are at stake , as is the security of one of the most critical regions of the world .
but all many of our media pundits can talk about ...
gordon cosby : teaching us how to live and how to die our fiscal soul and the arithmetic of protecting the poor change my mind : should the government be responsible for caring for the poor ?
the idolatry of politics and the promise of the common good an open letter to the occupiers from a veteran troublemaker what is growth hacking ?
a definition and a call to action un secretary-general 's message on the international day of the girl child at the end of last week i was invited to an event on fundraising to support needy students who are studying at kibasila secondary school .
this event was organized by roots and shoots club at the school .
complaints on operation to get rid of illegal immigrants should be addressed indeed , this is a laudable idea that was the brainchild of the international inspiration tanzania women ’ s task force which met recently at the british council in dar es salaam .
an interesting workshop on auditing issues in tanzania was held in dar es salaam during the last week of august 2013 , and some of us got the opportunity to be participants .
one may as well say it was unique , in the sense that unlike many other professional meetings which normally bring together birds of a feather to professionally flock together , this time around you had a combination of a professional auditors and laymen and women , who for two consecutive days seriously deliberated on auditing matters – in the interests of the general public .
as football federations on the continent get on with the weighty business of improving african football , the need to cherish the past while trying to boldly seize the future is absolutely important .
it is sad to note that despite its great potential , women ’ s football in the country has still yet to take off in a really meaningful and significant way .
roger slack in his article ’ pedactice - the use of multimedia in schools ’ which was published in september , 1999 , comments that the growth of information and communication technology ( ict ) in society is reflected in policies to encourage the use of ict in education and the development of educational multimedia .
the 2013 global corruption barometer report , published annually by transparency international , is now on the bookshelves and online .
for some of us who happened to attend the smart partnership movement meeting held in dar es salaam last week for the first time , the event was an eye opener in a number of ways .
who 'll bell the cat for evasion of tax by multinational companies ?
are we becoming wealthier because nation is doing well economically ?
over the years , a lot of foreign aid has been given to africa but many believe that a great chunk of this aid has been squandered , to the detriment of those people on the continent , who were supposed to be the main beneficiaries of this assistance .
mtu wa kwanza kujitokeza hadharani na kuhoji mamlaka makubwa aliyonayo mkurugenzi wa mashtaka ( dpp ) , alikuwa ni mkurugenzi mkuu wa taasisi ya kuzuia na kupambana na rushwa tanzania ( takukuru ) , dk .
who says the country should go back to analogue broadcasting ?
scott hahnchristopher westtheology of the body institutetheology of the bodytheology of the body for teenstheology of the body for teens leadeship trainingdefenders of the catholic faith , steve raypeter kreeft roo the dog may not be all that thrilled with this elephant costume .
championing his lgbt friends , trotter the french bulldog is a vision in white .
spangles the cross-eyed cat dresses up as a toothy dino .
how to improve quality of education in the caribbean for the next generation ?
“ the state shouldn ’ t be counting on people to violate laws in order to pad their budgets , ” brandes said .
burundi : un collectif contre la vie chère se monte pour dénoncer de nouvelles taxes burundi : un collectif contre la vie chère se monte pour dénoncer de le gouvernement burundais vient d ’ adopter un projet de budget révisé qui institue de nouvelles taxes , qui vont frapper tous les produits ou presque de la vie courante , et l ’ a envoyé à l ’ assemblé nationale , qui doit l ’ adopter ce mardi 23 juillet .
lundi , plus de 200 personnes ont répondu à l ’ appel lancé par le collectif campagne contre la vie chère au burundi , pour participer à une des dizaines de personnes , des jeunes et des vieux , hommes et femmes , se sont succédé au micro pendant trois heures pour dénoncer la volonté du gouvernement et pour une fois , oubliée la peur d ’ être fichés par les services secrets : les gens n ’ ont pas hésité à décliner leur identité avant d ’ exprimer librement leurs sentiments .
certains ont appelé à la grève générale , d ’ autres au boycott des transports publics ou de la bière , la boisson nationale au burundi . & bdquo ; le pouvoir veut notre mort « , a renchéri rose , la soixantaine .
pacifique , un jeune homme d ’ à peine vingt ans s ’ est attiré un franc succès avec sa référence à la & bdquo ; ça ne peut pas continuer comme ça , car nous n ’ avons plus rien à perdre , s 'est-il exclamé .
comme on l ’ a vu en egypte .
n 'ayons pas peur nous aussi .
le moment est venu pour les burundais de descendre dans la rue .
« l ’ adoption par l ’ assemblée nationale du projet de budget révisé , prévue dans un premier temps ce lundi , a été reportée au 23 juillet .
pacifique nininahazwe , un des leaders du collectif campagne contre la vie chère en appelle aux députés burundais . & bdquo ; je demande aux députés d ’ écouter le message de la population , qui se dit excédée , et qui indique que si une telle mesure était adoptée par les parlementaires , la population est prête à aller dans la rue .
« mais tout le monde sait que l ’ espoir d ’ être entendu est mince , très mince .
ce collectif se prépare déjà à un bras de fer avec le pouvoir .
united states oil production beats saudia arabia via fracking , why are gas prices high ?
the jubaland agreement has opened up the way to the donor conference on somalia in brussels on september 16 .
the agreement has many critics , however , in mogadishu and kismayo . ( ... )
the somalian secretary of state to the presidency , farah sheikh abdiqadir , has been ( ... )
making room for roosters fri oct 18 , 2013 02 : 26 am edt overcoming and excelling : karen man overcomes disabilities in pursuit of a better life sat oct 12 , 2013 6 : 26 pm edt badlands in sd farmer ’ s latest time-lapse project thu oct 17 , 2013 2 : 26 pm edt sd involved in epa case accepted by supreme court thu oct 17 , 2013 12 : 26 pm edt sd gov schedules summit on pheasant habitat tue oct 15 , 2013 4 : 26 pm edt daugaard declares october 22 as smilesafe kids day thu oct 17 , 2013 2 : 26 pm edt vargos on the lake to break ground thu oct 17 , 2013 10 : 27 pm edt revenue up for university general , expansion on the horizon thu oct 17 , 2013 4 : 27 pm edt clues to soldier ’ s slaying may be linked to richmond resident fri oct 18 , 2013 12 : 27 am edt suspect arrested in back-to-back conroe sex attacks tue oct 15 , 2013 8 : 27 pm edt police search for man in back-to-back conroe sex attacks tue oct 15 , 2013 2 : 27 pm edt uh students rooting for keenum as texans starting qb fri oct 18 , 2013 02 : 27 am edt dps trooper collides with sports car in katy thu oct 17 , 2013 8 : 27 pm edt calgary web design by media dog productionsidei contemporane | cadran politic „ iugoslavia și tito – cei mai buni prieteni ai româniei ” această legendă , la dimensiuni de mit , este întreținută de mai mulți factori din manipulatorii de opinie publică românească din mai multe motive .
unele mai cunoscute , altele mai puțin .
unul dintre cele mai importante este că serviciile secrete din cele două țări au colaborat excelent în perioada 1954-1989 în combaterea opoziției față de regimurile instalate în cele două țări ....
îmbogățirea nu aduce glorie .
conștient de faptul că cei mulți vor rămâne în urmă , iar acest lucru se va transforma într-o problemă la un moment dat , deng xiaoping a inițiat reformele care au asigurat renașterea economică a chinei .
din anumite puncte de vedere deng a avut o sarcină ușoară în comparație cu problemele pe care xi jinping trebuie să le înfrunte .
conştient sau nu , traian băsescu a trasat perfect rolul văzut de clasa politică pentru românia : bazin de forţă de muncă .
ieftină .
fără drepturi şi fără pretenţii .
să zică mersi că au un servici şi nu mor de foame , deşi există studii care arată un grad mare de sărăcie în rândul angajaţilor din românia , care trece de 25 % .
un salariu minim de 540 lei net ...
conform lui marc chevrier ( & # 8220 ; une grand oubliée : société civile & # 8221 ; ) , societatea civilă reprezintă „ ansamblul raporturilor interindividuale , a structurilor familiale , sociale , economice , culturale , religioase , care se dezvoltă în societatea dată , în afara cadrului şi intervenţiei statului ” .
aceasta cuprinde forme asociative de tip apolitic şi care nu sunt părţi ale unei instituţii ...
notă : textul de mai jos a fost scris în 2007 .
merită citit pentru o confruntare cu realitatea politică actuală .
la nivel european dezbaterea momentului este “ mai multă sau mai puţină europă ” .
la noi nu se dezbate , traian băsescu a decis că ne trebuie mai multă , usl n-are nici o opinie .
crin antonescu încearcă să joace rolul anti-europeanului , dar el nu se pune , fiindcă el doar este contra lui băsescu şi dacă acesta a zis albă , crin nu poate zice nici măcar bălană , obligatoriu trebuie să ...
prezentul articol are ca obiectiv realizarea unei analize pertinente cu privire la posibilitatea ca atacurile teroriste ce au avut loc pe data de 11 septembrie 2001 pe teritoriul naţional al statelor unite ale americii să fi putut fi evitate de către comunitatea de servicii de informaţii .
administraţia publică este nucleul mecanismului statal .
prin poziţia sa de intermediar între puterea politică şi societate , aceasta are menirea pe de o parte de a pune în aplicare deciziile politice materializate în legi , hotărâri , ordonanţe etc. şi , pe de altă parte , de a fi purtător al cererilor , dorinţelor şi necesităţilor membrilor societăţii în faţa autorităţilor competente ...
românia nu a înţeles încă foarte bine că trebuie să se recalibreze pentru statutul său de membru important în spaţiul comunitar şi că nu s-a adaptat încă la jocul foarte complex al afacerilor europene .
pentru racordarea ţării la ue avem nevoie de 5.000 de români la bruxelles şi 25.000 de persoane în românia implicate în mod real în mecanismul comunitar .
în prezent avem doar vreo ...
it can also be found on the investors.com home page , where it 's updated intraday . the criteria for a stock to make it on the list are as follows : noelia , the youngest of the chimpanzees at bioparc fuengirola celebrated her sixth birthday with her family with a cake made of fruit from her carers .
she is the youngest of the chimps born to lola and gordo .
the cake had six candles made from carrots and noelia also received several & # 8230 ; © 2013 indexmundi - all rights reservedusla în stare de hipnoză & # 8211 ; marian romanescu | cadran politic home vitrina cu cărți usla în stare de hipnoză & # 8211 ; marian romanescu cartea dăruită de autor nu are aproape nimic literar , este o prezentare de fapte şi personaje reale din timpul revoluţiei din decembrie 1989 , care se constituie într-o mărturie şocantă ce multor lideri politici postdecembrişti nu le convine , dar nu numai atât , au încercat cu asiduitate să creeze în jurul autorului o legendă potrivit căreia informaţiile publicate nu pot fi credibile întrucât marian romanescu este victima propriilor ficţiuni aşa cum rezultă dintr-un diagnostic acordat cu dărnicie de autorităţile militare prin decizia nr .
4148 / 13 din 31 iulie 1990 . încercările autorităţilor , atât militare , cât şi civile , au eşuat datorită deciziei 43137 / 98 romanescu vs românia a curţii europene a drepturilor omului ( cedo ) care demonstrează cu claritate încălcarea articolului 5 paragraful 2 din convenţie .
( virginia mircea ) « previousrussian opposition , the voters and wilted laurels of dissidence next a fi musulman .
islam , pace şi democratie & # 8211 ; alteţa sa regală prinţul el hassan bin talal ockelford has one student who he has taught since the 1980s -- pianist derek paravicini , who gave his first concert at age 7 .
now in his 30s , paravicini stll regularly thrills audiences with his piano talents , with his mentor ockelford at his side .
6.rosneft mulls boosting share in belarus oil refinery - interfax two people who had evidence falsified by dookhan are suing her and the employees of the crime lab and the suffolk county district attorney ’ s office in federal court for wrongful imprisonment .
few state civil claims are being pursued because massachusetts caps damages for state negligence at $ 100,000 .
a top new zealand cop is to become the next high commissioner to niue .
top cop to become high commissioner to niue niue ( 10 / 16 / 2013 1 : 39 : 13 am ) a top new zealand cop is to become the next high commissioner to niue . ( 10 / 16 / 2013 1 : 39 : 13 am ) a police superintendent is leaving the job for a life of diplomacy . ( 10 / 16 / 2013 2 : 56 : 16 pm ) the tollway .
the trip should cost 350 + baht on the meter if traffic minimal .
as at may 2009 many cabs will turn off the meter and ask you for 400 baht .
thats ok as only a 50 baht tip if going thru the tollways and to nana soi 4 sunhumvit .
if not they may stop and throw you out on the highway ? ? ?
keep the main shit as the taxi stand will already give the butt to the driver and try to remember his cab number .
22 / .
when paying with a 1000 baht note make it be known --hold it up or display it and say loudly 1000 baht as many times in bars the staff will say it was only 500baht and the patpong gogos are reknown for this.try to attract other foreigners attention as well to avpoid an altercation. make sure you have enough money to cover your bar bill ? ? ? all the time ..
why isnt the word out that obama agreed to defund obamacare but did the citizens win anything with another unlimited spending spree ?
i think not the president has stated repeatedly he is willing to negotiate on the budget .
he will not " cave . "
he will compromise .
if you need pickup from the airport cost is 200baht for 2 people and over this is extra and to & from the bus or boat 60baht charge .
all rooms are nice and large and well set out and you can hire bikes or motorcycles here as well .
chian and his staff can offer you guidance and the best places to go into the hills around chiangrai which are undoubtedly the best there is .
we drove in the outback some 10 years ago and the scenery and hill tribe visits are out of this world .
try is or let the chian guides assist you .
now a growing number of states and school districts are increasing their focus on students who are “ chronically absent ” from school — whether the absences are excused or unexcused . states have different definitions of chronic absence , but it is often defined as missing at least 10 percent of the school year for any reason .
en afrique de l ’ ouest , les prix des produits alimentaires étaient stables ou ont diminué en novembre tandis que leurs disponibilités continuaient à s ’ améliorer avec la campagne de commercialisation en cours .
des hausses de prix ont eu lieu plus tôt que prévu dans des centres urbains de la région et dans les zones structurellement déficitaires en raison des flux limités de produits en provenance des régions de production excédentaire .
the year on year rise for the commodity in region ’ s markets was 36 percent .
one-fifth of the world ’ s children are the most vulnerable to vaccine preventable diseases .
sashastra seema bal seizes rhino horns worth rs 33 lakh a geneticist believes he may have begun to solve the riddle of one of most enduring myths in all of cryptozoology : the yeti , or abominable snowman , of the himalayas . ( 10 / 17 / 2013 1 : 30 : 15 pm ) a new ipad and ipad mini are expected to be unveiled at an oct .
22 event in san francisco .
does " we still have a lot to cover " = a new cover ?
the future are tablets that run full oses .
i love my ipad but tired of often having to use mobile sites on the internet .
am i the only one not liking all the new metallic colors ?
they just look tacky to me .
lol ... last dig being a " private firm . "
as if the gov could find its a with its two hands .
even msnbc , and a retinue of lib pundits are bemoaning the rollout of obamacare , but you think it 's better than expected . i guess that 's to be expected when you live on an island with a short guy named tattoo .
so this is your way of saying there is hope for obamacare ?
or are you saying apple is as screwed up as obamacare ?
what are some of the reasons that a post would be removed ?
expelled ilboru students plead for govt intervention na sylivester domasa meanwhile , documents availed to the guardian yesterday allege student-staff cooperation in a plan to set the school on fire , a threat that led to the closure of the government funded school for special students .
so much for responsibility .
the big opportunity slipped away , and fiscal planning has since devolved into a series of standoffs verging on defaults and shutdowns .
the latest one has washington paralyzed right now .
such as curbing the government 's addiction to debt and deficits .
new nic president john bowman just started his new position a few weeks ago , and he says his main aim is to build on the college ’ s successes ( 10 / 17 / 2013 3 : 30 : 52 pm ) noumea , new caledonia — public health laboratories in the pacific islands are very diverse in their structure and resources — ranging in size from one employee to up to a hundred — but they all aim to provide equitable and high-quality services to the people of the pacific . ( 9 / 22 / 2013 10 : 14 : 32 am ) safe environment > child lures preventionclick here to enter child lures prevention web site en 1990 le front patriotique rwandais ( fpr ) , une organisation politico-militaire , lançait une offensive contre le gouvernement rwandais , dirigé à l ’ époque par le en 1991 , une nouvelle constitution , garantissant le multipartisme et les libertés publiques , est adoptée .
se créent alors des partis d ’ oppositions , dont trois démarrent avec un franc succès , notamment le mouvement démocratique en 1993 , des accords de paix sont signés entre le fpr , le gouvernement rwandais et les autres partis d ’ opposition .
la guerre cesse mais les tensions entre le 6 avril 1994 le président habyarimana est assassiné dans l ’ attentat contre son avion et la guerre reprend .
elle est plus intense à kigali où les accords ont permis au fpr d ’ installer officiellement un bataillon composé de 600 hommes .
au même moment les massacres d ’ extermination sont perpétrés sur la quasi totalité du territoire rwandais .
le fpr s ’ en prend aux hutu tandis que les milices anti-fpr s ’ en prennent aux tutsi et aux hutu accusés de collaboration avec le fpr .
c ’ est le génocide rwandais , devenu génocide des tutsi , excluant dès sa prise de pouvoir en juillet 94 , le fpr continue ses massacres contre mais la chasse aux hutu ne débute pas en 1994 .
en effet elle commence juste après l ’ attaque du fpr , fin 1990 .
dès cette date , les hutus des zones contrôlées par ce dernier font l ’ objet de massacres , de tortures et d ’ exploitation .
les survivants s ’ entassent dans des camps de déplacés qui parfois sont visés par des attaques de cette rébellion .
en 1993 le nombre de déplacés entassés dans des camps , dans des conditions de misères est environ de 1 million , près de la les plus importants de ces massacres d ’ avant 1994 sont : celui de ruhengeri en janvier 1991 , où plus de 500 personnes sont exécutées , femmes et enfants inclus ; celui de butaro en mai 1992 avec 150 victimes et , surtout , celui de février 1993 où près de 40 000 personnes sont massacrés par le fpr dans les préfectures de byumba et ruhengeri ( james k. gasana , rwanda : du parti-état a en avril 1994 , le fpr conquiert de vastes zones en un temps record .
les hutu trouvés sur place sont massacrés et leurs corps brûlés , jetés dans les rivières ou dans certains cas entassés à des fins de manipulation des journalistes après sa prise de pouvoir en juillet 1994 , le fpr massacre les hutu sur l ’ ensemble du territoire .
le cas le plus documenté est le massacre des déplacés hutu de kibeho , dans l ’ ancienne préfecture de gikongoro , en avril 1995 , où les déplacés sont encerclés et interdits de sortir du camp pendant plusieurs jours avant d ’ être massacrés par coups de fusil , coups de canon et baïonnettes .
tout se passe devant les militaires de l ’ onu qui observent l ’ opération , prennent des photos mais ne secourent personne .
a la fin de la journée plus de 8000 personnes avaient été massacrées , sur les 100 000 qu ’ abritait le camp .
selon un témoin direct , les corps furent entassés dans des camions transportés dans les forêts avoisinantes , où ils furent brulés ou enterrés dans des fosses communes .
dans d ’ autres régions du pays , le fpr convoquait des réunions de villages sur la sécurité ou de distribution de nourritures .
dès que suffisamment de monde s ’ était réuni , il les massacrait soit avec les armes blanches ou par balles , grenades et bombes selon le nombre des cibles ou encore les brulait vifs .
selon une enquête de l ’ onu , conduite en 1994 , connue sous l ’ appellation de & rdquo ; gersony report & bdquo ; ces massacres étaient systématiques , réguliers , visaient la population hutue et ce indistinctement , les hommes les femmes , les enfants , les personnes âgées ainsi que les malades .
ce rapport estimait qu ’ entre 25 000 et 45 000 personnes avaient été massacrées entre avril et août 1994 rien que dans les les zones des massacres étaient interdites d ’ accès jusqu ’ à ce que les victimes soient dégagées et brulées .
ce fut le cas par exemple pour plusieurs endroits de l ’ ancienne préfecture de butare , au sud du pays .
en octobre 1996 , le fpr attaque le congo où étaient refugiés plus de deux d ’ octobre 1996 à juillet 1997 , ces refugiés furent traqués , torturés , violés , délibérément affamés , privés de toute assistance , massacrés à l ’ arme blanche , l ’ onu a fait une enquête dont les résultats , & rdquo ; le mapping report & bdquo ; d ’ octobre 2010 ne laissent aucun doute quant à l ’ intention [ massacrés à l ’ arme blanche , piégés , violées avant d ’ être tuées : l ’ exemple de dans cette région , les massacres ont été organisés selon un schéma quasi identique [ à celui des autres régions , ndlr ] , de façon à tuer un maximum de victimes .
à chaque fois qu ’ ils repéraient une grande concentration de réfugiés , les militaires de l ’ afdl / apr tiraient sur eux de manière indiscriminée à l ’ arme lourde et à l ’ arme légère .
ils promettaient ensuite aux rescapés de les aider à après les avoir rassemblés sous différents prétextes , ils les tuaient le plus souvent à coups de marteau ou de houe .
ceux qui tentaient de fuir étaient tués par balles .
plusieurs témoins ont affirmé qu ’ en 1999 [ deuxième guerre après celle de 1996 , ndlr ] , des militaires de l ’ apr se seraient rendus spécialement sur les sites de plusieurs massacres afin de déterrer les corps et de brûler les à partir du 9 décembre 1996 , des militaires de l ’ afdl / apr ont tué par balles plusieurs centaines de réfugiés , parmi lesquels un grand nombre de femmes et d ’ enfants au niveau du pont de hombo .
au cours des jours suivants , ils ont brûlé vifs un nombre indéterminé de réfugiés au bord de la route au niveau de la localité de kampala , située à quelques kilomètres de hombo .
avant d ’ être tuées , de nombreuses femmes ont été violées par les militaires .
avant de les tuer , les militaires avaient demandé aux victimes de se regrouper en vue de leur au cours d ’ avril 1997 , alors qu ’ entre 60 et 120 réfugiés mourraient chaque jour de maladie ou d ’ épuisement , les militaires de l ’ afdl / apr ont , à plusieurs reprises , interdit l ’ accès des camps aux organismes et ong à vocation humanitaire et entravé le rapatriement des réfugiés vers le rwanda .
vers la fin d ’ avril 1997 , des éléments de l ’ afdl / apr ont brûlé vifs des réfugiés au niveau du village de lolengi , à 48 kilomètres de boende .
les militaires ont recouvert les corps des victimes de bâches en plastique qu ’ ils le 13 mai 1997 , des éléments de l ’ afdl / apr , à leur arrivée dans le village de réfugiés & bdquo ; .
ils se sont ensuite dirigés vers le camp et ont ouvert le feu sur le même jour , les militaires sont entrés dans le bureau de la croix-rouge locale et ont tué des enfants non accompagnés qui attendaient leur rapatriement vers le le même jour , la population de wendji a enterré 116 corps .
un bébé de trois mois environ qui était encore vivant au moment de l ’ enterrement a été tué par un militaire de l ’ afdl / apr qui supervisait les travaux d ’ inhumation .
le 14 mai , 17 l ’ onu conclut que d ’ après les résultats de son enquête , la qualification de génocide peut être retenue pour les crimes commis contre les hutus , refugiés et présent rapport , ayant ciblé de très nombreux réfugiés hutu rwandais ainsi que des membres de la population civile hutu [ congolaise , ndlr ] et causé leur mort , révèlent plusieurs éléments accablants qui , s ’ ils sont prouvés devant un en considérant les périodes des massacres , le fait que même les bébés n ’ étaient pas épargnés et que même les hutu congolais ont été visés par les massacres il n ’ y a aucun doute quant à l ’ identité des victimes ni au mobile de leurs bourreaux : les hutu étaient visés et ce , parce qu ’ ils sont nés hutu .
l ’ épisode congolais ne marque pas la fin de leur calvaire .
l ’ extermination exemple , en décembre 1997 , on estime à 8000 victimes hutues qui ont étés brulées comme mentionné plus haut , le fait que le régime du fpr a requalifié le génocide rwandais en génocide des tutsi , a exclu les victimes hutues .
la seule commémoration officielle autorisée au rwanda étant celle du génocide des tutsi , les victimes hutues se retrouvent sans cadre de commémoration officiellement au-delà de cette interdiction de fait , quiconque ose parler de ces victimes hutues est accusé pêle-mêle de négationnisme , divisionnisme , révisionnisme ou de minimisation du génocide des tutsi du rwanda , à l ’ instar de victoire ingabire , actuellement emprisonnée à kigali .
en belgique , il est traité de négationniste , génocidaire ou de membre des familles de génocidaire ( la libre.be du 7 avril 2013 ) ou pire comparé à nazi .
citons le cas du député alain destexhe qui , sur son compte twitter le 7 avril 2013 , a comparé aux & rdquo ; nazi & bdquo ; les commémorants qui entendaient honorer la mémoire de toutes les victimes de la tragédie rwandaise .
la faute de ces derniers est d ’ avoir osé aller se souvenir au mémorial du génocide rwandais à bruxelles , le 6 avril plutôt que le 7 , date de la tutsies , ibuka et d ’ avoir voulu commémorer toutes les victimes indépendamment de depuis 1990 , soit plus de 22 ans actuellement , aucune juridiction n ’ a rendu le rwanda a interdit à toute personne de réclamer justice pour les hutu et ce , par des menaces et des actes de violence .
pendant que les juridictions gacaca ont été instituées pour rendre justice à toutes les victimes , les hutu n ’ ont jamais eu une juridiction vers laquelle se tourner .
exception faite de la justice espagnole où , profitant des victimes espagnoles tuées par le fpr , des associations de droits de l ’ homme ont inclu des victimes hutues .
néanmoins , cette justice s ’ est arrêtée à lancer des mandats d ’ arrêts qui le cas le plus aberrant est certainement celui du tribunal pénal international pour le rwanda dont la mission était de juger les crimes commis au rwanda de janvier à décembre 1994 .
malgré les instructions détaillées de certains dossiers incriminant des officiers du fpr , le tribunal a toujours fermé les yeux .
pire encore , le tribunal a à plusieurs reprises obéi aux ordres du régime du fpr ou , au moins , cédé à ses menaces .
un des exemples est celui de mr barayagwiza jean-bosco .
en novembre 1999 la chambre d ’ appel a constaté que ses droits de défense avaient été violés au point que ni son arrestation ni son acte d ’ accusation n ’ étaient légaux .
elle a alors ordonné sa mise en liberté et la nullité de son acte d ’ accusation .
dès lors le régime rwandais menaça d ’ arrêter toute collaboration avec le tribunal .
la chambre d ’ appel a dû revenir sur sa décision ..
par la suite , le tribunal le condamna à 32 ans de prison et il y mourra en 2010 .
un autre exemple est la tentative du procureur du tpir carla del des fonctionnaires rwandais ont empêché des témoins de se rendre au tribunal , entraînant la suspension de plusieurs procès pendant des mois & bdquo ; .
par la suite , carla del ponte a été limogé son de son poste et remplacé par hasan jallow et c ’ est la fin de l ’ espoir de voir le tpir juger des membres du fpr .
dans d ’ autres cas , des témoins d ’ accusations sont revenus sur leurs dires et ont affirmé avoir été menacés par les services de renseignement du fpr mais également ont été entraînés pour donner de faux témoignages [ 2 ] .
malgré que ce phénomène qui semble s ’ être généralisé dans toutes les juridictions , au rwanda , en belgique et au tpir , celui-ci les a toujours ignorés .
ce fut le cas , par exemple , dans les procès de karemera ( témoin surnommé bth pour sa sécurité ) , bicamumpaka ( témoin gfa ) et en belgique dans le procès des religieuses .
en belgique , seuls des hutu ont été jugés .
plusieurs officiels affirment que la seule raison qui explique cette discrimination est qu ’ il n ’ existe aucune plainte visant les membres du fpr .
cependant , des témoins ont vu des personnes visées par les mandats d ’ arrêts espagnols aller et venir en belgique sans être inquiétés .
c ’ est le cas , entre autres , du général james kabarebe aujourd ’ hui depuis le génocide de 1994 , les hutu ont été collectivement et systématiquement l ’ objectif de ces manœuvres semble être , d ’ une part , d ’ assimiler les victimes hutues aux bourreaux des tutsi , et les bourreaux des hutu , c ’ est-à-dire le fpr , aux victimes tutsies .
ainsi le fpr se retrouve victime comme les réelles victimes tutsies tandis que ce sont les victimes hutues qui se retrouvent plusieurs éléments ont concouru à cette manœuvre cynique .
en effet , l ’ organisation de la justice a permis au fpr d ’ accuser qui il veut d ’ être prisonniers politiques , d ’ opposants et des humanitaires tels que monsieur paul le fait de voir des jugements , au rwanda comme à l ’ étranger , qui ne respectent pas le principe d ’ impartialité a fait régner une peur constante chez les hutu. justice canadienne qui a condamné une personne parce qu ’ elle n ’ avait pas été tuée pendant le génocide .
selon cette justice les hutu modérés ont été tués pendant le génocide .
ce qui fait de tout hutu survivant un non-modéré donc en plus de cette partialité , comme dit plus haut , le fpr a utilisé de manière généralisée des faux témoins qu ’ il a entrainé à mentir avant de les envoyer témoigner .
on retrouve des aveux de certains des faux témoins qui ont témoigné a cela il faut ajouter le rôle des médias et des sion de diabolisation de la population hutue et de blanchiment du fpr .
toutes ces injustices ont fait que beaucoup de hutu se cachent , taisent leur horrifiant calvaire .
etant victimes des juridictions censées les protéger , ils n ’ osent pas y avoir recours et de toute façon ils n ’ en ont pas les moyens .
en tout cas pas à la hauteur de leur bourreau , le fpr à la tête de l ’ etat rwandais , le principal et prioritaire souci des hutu est encore , de survivre à cette force est de constater que tant que la double mission sera poursuivie , les tensions entre les hutu et les tutsi continueront à s ’ intensifier et ce à tord , renforcera les criminels qui ne feront que les opprimer et les exploiter encore la question est : il y a-t- il un espoir de solution ?
la reconnaissance du calvaire des hutu ainsi que sa qualification semblent constituer une étape obligée ; sans laquelle c ’ est leur diabolisation orchestrée par leur bourreau qui continuera à autoriser , cautionner , encourager et couvrir notamment au congo .
l ’ autre condition nécessaire est celle de disposer de leaders engagés à la construction d ’ un avenir commun pour l ’ ensemble de la i sat down next to my girl and asked her what she was looking at .
her answer would change the way i looked at light forever .
my daughter is not , as far as we can tell , a prodigy .
she did not come out of the womb playing the violin nor did she begin composing concertos at the age of six .
at ten , she is not on what appears to be a path to musical mastery .
she doesn 't paint breathtaking landscapes nor choreograph elaborate ballets .
she is not derek paravicini .
would we be giddy with delight if she could make us a fortune counting cards ?
i suppose .
but that 's not who she is . -- jess wilson in dance , she finds a way to express herself and her moods -- the silly , the serious , the melancholy , the heartbreakingly beautiful .
and so it is with music and movement and visual art .
each in its own way has created a portal for her -- offered her an alternative language through which she can express what she feels and what she sees and who she is .
each has , in the most miraculous of ways , facilitated the thing that she so desperately seeks with us and we with her -- connection .
so would it be neat if my kid could write a concerto or perform at carnegie hall ?
sure .
would we be giddy with delight if she could make us a fortune counting cards ?
i suppose .
but that 's not who she is .
nor is it who she has to be. website available to you subject to the following terms and conditions .
by using the site you agree to these conditions .
if you ensure you are aware of any changes made by the km media group note : use of the website and the submission by you of any obligations set out in our privacy policy .
you must read the policy .
if you do not agree to the terms of the policy you should operated by a third party you may be asked to supply information content in any way except for your own personal , non-commercial also agree not to deep-link or frame to the site for any purpose , technology now known or hereafter developed .
in addition , you waive any and all moral rights in such text or graphics. of such material in the site and interactive services is owned by construed as conferring by implication or otherwise any licence or km media group limited is not responsible for and does not give any warranties regarding any such web sites or services and is not responsible for or liable in relation to the content or your use of ( or to third party products and services ) , is provided " as is " and on an " as available " basis without any representations or any kind from or in connection with the use of kent online .
6.1 due to the nature of the internet , km media operation of the site and interactive services .
all liability of km for any loss whatsoever arising from your use of or inability to endeavours to ensure that any information it holds on you is kept secure .
however , due to the nature of the internet , km media group we do not actively moderate , monitor or edit contributions to the reader comments but we may intervene and take such action as we think necessary .
if you have any concerns over the contents on our conditions and notices under which kentonline is offered .
you are to any interactive services provided on the site immediately for you agree to fully reimburse km media group limited for all losses , whatsoever suffered or incurred by the km media group limited as a consequence of your breach of this agreement and your use of the km media group limited shall not be liable to the other for any loss or damage which may be suffered by any party due to any cause wales and you hereby submit to the exclusive jurisdiction of the mwalimu nyerere viewed education as a means to liberate tanzanians mentally , socially and economically .
in his speech to a seminar on education and training and alternatives in education in african countries , organized by the dag hammarskjöld foundation and held in dar es salaam ( tanzania ) in may 1974 , he emphasised that education has to liberate both the mind and the body of man .
it has to make him more of a human being because he is aware of his potential as a human being and is in a positive , life-enhancing relationship with himself , his neighbour and his environment .
education is incomplete if it only enables man to work out elaborate schemes for universal peace but does not teach him how to provide good food for himself and his family .
it is equally incomplete and counterproductive if it merely teaches man how to be an efficient tool user and tool maker , but neglect his personality and his relationship with his fellow human beings .
in order to have a meaningful definition of ’ education ’ in 1967 , nyerere defined the purpose of education as to transmit from one generation to the next the accumulated wisdom and knowledge of the society , and to prepare the young people for their future membership of the society and their active participation in its maintenance or development .
his interest in self-reliance shares a great deal with gandhi ’ s approach .
there was a strong concern to counteract the colonialist assumptions and practices of the dominant , formal means of education .
he saw it as enslaving and oriented to ’ western ’ interests and norms .
nyerere set out his vision in ’ education for self reliance ’ ( reprinted in nyerere 1968 ) .
education had to work for the common good , foster co-operation and promote equality .
further , it had to address the realities of life in tanzania .
the following changes were proposed : in his book ' " development is for man , by man , and of man " : the declaration of dar es salaam ' , nyerere , mentions two functions of adult education , which are to : by drawing out the things the learner already knows , and showing their relevance to the new thing which has to be learnt , the teacher has done three things .
he has built up the self-confidence of the man who wants to learn , by showing him that he is capable of contributing .
mwalimu nyerere ’ s 1999 call for ’ education for service and not for selfishness ’ was an attempt to couch his 1967s policy of ’ education for self-reliance ’ and 1974 ’ s motto of ’ education for liberation ’ in & ldquo ; the parlance of today & rdquo ; .
as the open university of tanzania ( 1999 ) reminds us , it was ’ his last words on education ’ .
therefore we have to pay particular attention to it as it sums up his overall stance on this theme .
at present the quality of our primary school education is appalling .
we must do something about it , as a matter of national urgency .
apart from the fact that it is the education of the vast majority of the citizens of tanzania , it is also the foundation of the whole of our education system .
ndiyo elimu ya msingi .
if it is poor the rest of our education system is bound to suffer ( nyerere 1999 : 4 ) & rdquo ; . & ldquo ; finally , our education , especially our higher education , should be socially responsible .
education for self-reliance is not education for selfishness .
yes , it is for self-reliance of the individual , but it is also for the self-reliance of our country .
i believe that the community has a responsibility to educate its members .
“ we ’ re at a point where we are going to take as good care of the system that we have now for as long as we can , but we know that we can 't hold our own for long , ” said dave nichols , the agency ’ s director .
“ you don ’ t add a room on a house when the roof is leaking . ”
dylan ratigan is the host of msnbc ’ s the dylan ratigan show , one of the highest-rated daytime shows on the network .
this make-versus-take , analysis-driven daily broadcast fearlessly takes on the world of politics , money , and the unholy alliance between big business and government .
his program airs at 4pm on msnbc , and you can join him on twitter @ dylanratigan .
we do not have a debt crisis .
we have a crisis in our dependence on two corrupted political parties , each paid to perpetuate a mass extraction on behalf of those that finance them in unique and sordid ways .
america has a crisis in the way that our government ...
tune in to the dylan ratigan show on msnbc at 4 p.m.
et for an exclusive look at the transcripts of meetings of top fed officials during the financial crisis from 2007-2010 .
as i told you on friday , the huffington post and the dylan ratigan show got some significant internal ... 華盛頓州讀者問 ： 我是美國公民 ， 未婚 ， 生於 1952 年 1 月 。 我在美國工作已有 20 年並累積 40 個工作季點 。 我有下列問題想請教您們 。 ( 1 ) 我計畫於 2014 年 1 月 62 歲時提早申請退休 ， 我該怎辦 ？ ( 2 ) 我可以獲得多少退休金 ？ ( 3 ) 假如我於 62 歲時 ...
the storm response fit nicely into christie ’ s story line that he was leading a bipartisan “ new jersey comeback ” from the fiscal disaster of the recession as well as a natural disaster .
the federal shutdown has given christie an opportunity to burnish the many analysts say will be needed for a republican to win the white house in 2016 .
“ everything we ’ ve done has been a bipartisan accomplishment , ” christie said in a campaign tv commercial .
“ it ’ s my job to make sure that compromise happens .
you see , as long as you stick to your principles , compromise isn ’ t a dirty word . ”
“ people used to laugh about new jersey , ” lt. gov. kim guadagno said recently , according to the newark star-ledger .
“ they used to say snooki and the sopranos .
now , go anywhere in the country … and you say , ‘ what do you think of new jersey now ? ’
and they will say , ‘ new jersey ?
i love that governor . ’ ”
figures on uzbekistan ’ s and tajikistan ’ s outgoing aid released by governments confirman inhabilitación política a piedad córdobacórdoba fue destituida del cargo de senadora , a finales del 2007 , por su supuesta vinculación con las fuerzas armadas revolucionarias de colombia ( farc ) , argumento ... presidente ecuatoriano propone a senador uruguayo como secretario de unasurunasur busca al nuevo secretario general del bloque regional , que sustituirá al venezolano alí rodríguez araque , quien estuvo en ese cargo hasta finales de agosto .... frente guasú presentó al congreso paraguayo proyecto de ley de seguridad alimentariael senador paraguayo y presidente del frente guasú , fernando lugo , informó que la elaboración del proyecto se hizo de manera consensuada con organizaciones campesinas e ...
presidente ecuatoriano propone a senador uruguayo como secretario de unasur frente guasú presentó al congreso paraguayo proyecto de ley de seguridad alimentaria bachelet aventaja con 25 puntos a sus contendientes a un mes de comicios en chile de acuerdo con un estudio realizado por la universidad diego portales , si los comicios fueran este domingo , bachelet obtendría 37,7 % de los votos , mientras que su principal contendiente , la candidata de la coalición de derecha alianza , evelyn matthei , alcanzaría sólo 12,3 % de los sufragios el consejo nacional electoral de ecuador convocó este jueves a los ecuatorianos a acudir a las urnas el 23 de febrero de 2014 para elegir las autoridades provinciales y municipales de ese país en el encuentro , que se desarrollará bajo el lema la comunidad iberoamericana en el nuevo contexto mundial , los mandatarios buscarán darle dinamismo a este mecanismo de integración para adaptarlo a los cambios mundiales informes revelan que israel fabrica de 10 a 15 bombas atómicas al año informes del instituto internacional de estocolmo para la investigación de la paz revelaron que israel tiene a su disposición entre 100 y 300 ojivas nucleares y actualmente fabrica de 10 a 15 bombas atómicas al año obama nombra a jeh johnson como nuevo secretario de seguridad nacional protestas en francia por expulsión de dos estudiantes inmigrantes de secundaria mcdaniel announces candidacy for us senatewhlt22club for growth endorses sen. thad cochran 's likely gop primary challengerwashington times ( blog ) see realtime coveragesee all 70 sourcesrelated thad cochran / / ox _ 50f7db7d97b3b.addvariable ( " jp _ page _ id " , " 21806 " ) ; / / the value needs to translate to the page content id as a variable - currently see doubleclick etc 2 / .
if you are a a tourist and have a timeframe to leave then you must decide if the case is quick or drawn out .
you may be up for many court appearances or your lawyers and frustrated at the timeframes as these are slow. so always wait for any further payment to the lawyer in case of default .
7 / .
check from other foreigners or freinds about who is a good lawyer .
if you have time go on one of the forums and ask .
useful tel numbers ] [ pattaya tourist more handy tips ] [ pattaya best restaurants & buffets ] [ pattaya bars ] [ pattaya jet ski hire ] [ pattaya hire cars / bikes ] [ pattaya car / motorcycle reg office ] [ buying cars in thailand ] [ buying motorcycles in thailand ] [ pattaya bike week 2009 ] [ bang saen bike week 2008 ] [ fishing news ] [ check out bang saen ] [ more bang saen pics ] all the info you need to know about travel to the phillipines elaborating on the procedures , she said that some officers do not understand how the forms have to be filled by women traders because the forms are too long and complicated .
mama salma kikwete afungua jengo la wodi ya watoto hospitali ya mkoa wa iringa in the factory there are fouteen productionlines and auxiliary thermal welcome to thewebpagefor thedepartmentof catechesis , r.c.i.a. and lay apostolate of the diocese ofduluth .
" the definitive aim of catechesis isto put people not only in touch but in communion , in intimacy , withjesus christ : only he can lead us to the love of the father in the spirit and make us share in the life of the trinity . "
( john paul ii , on catechesis in our time # 5 ) catechesis is not only for children .
it is for every human person god ever created , and will create .
the goal of catechesis is to put all people into intimate communion with jesus christ .
this means two things .
first , all catechesis is sacramental preparation .
in the eucharist we receive jesus christ , fully god and fully man , body , blood , soul and divinity .
there can be no more intimate communion with christ this side of the grave .
second , the definitive aim of catechesis is to lead people to a life of holiness in order to live in the midst of the life-giving love of the trinity for all eternity .
yes , the goal of catechesis is to be a saint .
all human persons have a right to all that god intends , and thedepartment of catechesis , r.c.i.a. and lay apostolateis dedicated to forming catechetical leaders and catechists in this mission .
catechist prayeryou , o god , are my strength , my patience , my light and my councel .
it is you who make responsive to me the students confided to my care .
abandon me not to myself for one moment .
for my own conduct and for that of my students , grant me the spirit of wisdom and understanding , the spirit of knowledge and piety , the spirit of holy fear of you , and an ardent zeal to procure your glory .
i unite my effortsto those of jesus christ , the master teacher , andi beg the most blessed virgin , st. joseph and pope st. pius x , to assist me in the exercise of my teaching ministry .
amen .
a jos .
a. bank , men 's wearhouse deal makes sense - barrons.com bicycle seat gone wrongthis slideshow is basically a psa for pants .
a young man has spoken of the horrific moment he heard his bones snapping when he was crushed by a digger – on his second day at work .
apuntes de coyunturaentre muchas cosas , les he respondido que tengamos confianza en la conciencia socialista y el amor bolivariano por nuestra patria , que promovió el comandante en nuestro ... américa latina entre dos océanosamérica latina y el caribe han ido cobrando interés como región de importancia estratégica global .
múltiples factores han venido a coadyuvar para la construcción de esta ... chávez es la fuerza natural que se proyecta hacia el futuro " aquí está chávez de pie con ustedes " , dijo mientras el agua corría copiosamente por su cara .
el recorrido de esa semana final de la campaña para las ...
chávez es la fuerza natural que se proyecta hacia el futuro democracia : soberanía de la mayoría .
soberanía : poder máximo que no se somete a ningún otro .
contra estas definiciones la reacción ha tejido en todos los tiempos el infundio de que no es posible una revolución en democracia ni una democracia en revolución lo que sí es un fraude consistente es el lamentable fraude educativo en miranda , cada día es más evidente la pésima gestión de la política educativa del gobernador de miranda sería lo que algunos llamarían un acontecimiento conmocionante o en palabras de condoleeza rice la “ oportunidad estratégica ” me mueve a escribir el hecho de que muy pronto ocurrirán acontecimientos graves .
no transcurren en nuestra época diez o quince años sin que nuestra especie corra peligros reales de extinción .
ni obama ni nadie podría garantizar otra cosa ; ya que solo la verdad nos podría ofrecer un poco de bienestar la cia y la guerra ( no tan ) secreta contra venezuela lockwood residents to vote on sewer project fri oct 18 , 2013 03 : 17 am edt tenacity and gratitude : henry winkler visits billings , speaks of overcoming dyslexia fri oct 18 , 2013 01 : 17 am edt man in serious condition after rollover crash on i-94 thu oct 17 , 2013 11 : 17 pm edt update : billings police defuse central ave situation , arrest one man tue oct 15 , 2013 7 : 17 pm edt volunteers get birds-eye view for annual bridger raptor count fri oct 18 , 2013 03 : 17 am edt sentencing set in attempted deliberate homicide case fri oct 18 , 2013 03 : 17 am edt deer lodges 4-h fun day fri oct 18 , 2013 03 : 17 am edt updated : kittleson sentenced in vehicular homicide case fri oct 18 , 2013 01 : 17 am edt judge sentences kittleson for vehicular homicide charge , but not to prison thu oct 17 , 2013 7 : 17 pm edt bennyhoff faces lawsuit for role in man ’ s 2012 death thu oct 17 , 2013 11 : 17 pm edt judge upholds bond for sex abuse suspect thu oct 17 , 2013 11 : 17 pm edt apple announces two new iphones fri sep 13 , 2013 3 : 17 pm edt skylights and argos meet for round two thu oct 17 , 2013 3 : 17 pm edt hhs spikers face bulldogs tonight thu oct 17 , 2013 3 : 17 pm edt firefighter of year focuses on prevention fri oct 18 , 2013 03 : 17 am edt fairgrounds group to prioritize for possible $ 10.5m budget fri oct 18 , 2013 03 : 17 am edt website classifies helena in top 100 thu oct 17 , 2013 03 : 17 am edt kalispell ward 3 : candidate an average joe trying to do his duty thu oct 17 , 2013 11 : 17 pm edt back in business : glacier reopens but logan pass wont thu oct 17 , 2013 9 : 17 pm edt update : blackfeet chairman suspends augare fri oct 18 , 2013 01 : 17 am edt vote to end shutdown could linger in 2014 thu oct 17 , 2013 9 : 17 pm edt for tribes , shutdowns effects could linger thu oct 17 , 2013 9 : 17 pm edt obama lashes republicans as government reopens thu oct 17 , 2013 9 : 17 pm edt local church welcomes bob everest as new pastor fri oct 11 , 2013 1 : 17 pm edt bits and pieces fri oct 11 , 2013 1 : 17 pm edt got a success story of your own ?
send it to us at success.stories @ huffingtonpost.com and you could be featured in our i lost weight series !
i recently moved to chicago to attend graduate school .
i am hoping to live my young-adult life to the fullest and experience everything i didn 't get to in my undergrad years .
wish me luck !
the huffington post publishes photographs as they are submitted to us by our readers .
was she the heaviest in her family ? congrats on the weight loss .
" i am hoping to live my young-adult life to the fullest and experience everything i didn 't get to in my undergrad years . " i 'm glad you didn 't wait to take charge of your weight ... i 'm not here to debate the rightness or wrongness of it ; the morbidly obese do miss out on much in life due to the perceptions of others and their own physical limitations ... enjoy !
" the huffington post " is a registered trademark of thehuffingtonpost.com , inc .
all rights reserved.brookings register pushups : the faux pas < a href = " http : / / www.huffingtonpost.com / 2012 / 05 / 08 / fix-your-form-pushup _ n _ 1500458.html " target = " _ hplink " > find out how to do the perfect pushup here . < / a > pushups : the fix < a href = " http : / / www.huffingtonpost.com / 2012 / 05 / 08 / fix-your-form-pushup _ n _ 1500458.html " target = " _ hplink " > find out how to do the perfect pushup here . < / a > lunges : the faux pas < a href = " http : / / www.huffingtonpost.com / 2012 / 05 / 15 / fix-your-form-lunge _ n _ 1515388.html " target = " _ hplink " > find out how to do the perfect lunge here . < / a > lunges : the fix < a href = " http : / / www.huffingtonpost.com / 2012 / 05 / 15 / fix-your-form-lunge _ n _ 1515388.html " target = " _ hplink " > find out how to do the perfect lunge here . < / a > crunches : the faux pas < a href = " http : / / www.huffingtonpost.com / 2012 / 05 / 22 / fix-your-form-crunches _ n _ 1533341.html " target = " _ hplink " > find out how to do the perfect crunch here . < / a > crunches : the fix < a href = " http : / / www.huffingtonpost.com / 2012 / 05 / 22 / fix-your-form-crunches _ n _ 1533341.html " target = " _ hplink " > find out how to do the perfect crunch here . < / a > dumbbell rows : the faux pas < a href = " http : / / www.huffingtonpost.com / 2012 / 05 / 29 / fix-your-form-row _ n _ 1546174.html " target = " _ hplink " > find out how to do the perfect row here . < / a > dumbbell rows : the fix < a href = " http : / / www.huffingtonpost.com / 2012 / 05 / 29 / fix-your-form-row _ n _ 1546174.html " target = " _ hplink " > find out how to do the perfect row here . < / a > planks : the faux pas < a href = " http : / / www.huffingtonpost.com / 2012 / 06 / 05 / fix-your-form-planks _ n _ 1567803.html " target = " _ hplink " > find out how to do the perfect plank here . < / a > planks : the fix < a href = " http : / / www.huffingtonpost.com / 2012 / 06 / 05 / fix-your-form-planks _ n _ 1567803.html " target = " _ hplink " > find out how to do the perfect plank here . < / a > squats : the faux pas < a href = " http : / / www.huffingtonpost.com / 2012 / 06 / 12 / fix-your-form-squat _ n _ 1586844.html " target = " _ hplink " > find out how to do the perfect squat here . < / a > squats : the fix < a href = " http : / / www.huffingtonpost.com / 2012 / 06 / 12 / fix-your-form-squat _ n _ 1586844.html " target = " _ hplink " > find out how to do the perfect squat here . < / a > bridges : the faux pas < a href = " http : / / www.huffingtonpost.com / 2012 / 06 / 19 / fix-your-form-bridge _ n _ 1606366.html " target = " _ hplink " > find out how to do the perfect bridge here . < / a > bridges : the fix < a href = " http : / / www.huffingtonpost.com / 2012 / 06 / 19 / fix-your-form-bridge _ n _ 1606366.html " target = " _ hplink " > find out how to do the perfect bridge here . < / a > bicep curls : the faux pas < a href = " http : / / www.huffingtonpost.com / 2012 / 06 / 26 / fix-your-form-bicep-curl _ n _ 1625129.html " target = " _ hplink " > find out how to do the perfect bicep curl here . < / a > bicep curls : the fix < a href = " http : / / www.huffingtonpost.com / 2012 / 06 / 26 / fix-your-form-bicep-curl _ n _ 1625129.html " target = " _ hplink " > find out how to do the perfect bicep curl here . < / a > overhead press : the faux pas < a href = " http : / / www.huffingtonpost.com / 2012 / 07 / 03 / how-to-exercise-dumbbell-overhead-press _ n _ 1643324.html " target = " _ hplink " > find out how to do the perfect dumbbell overhead press here . < / a > overhead press : the fix < a href = " http : / / www.huffingtonpost.com / 2012 / 07 / 03 / how-to-exercise-dumbbell-overhead-press _ n _ 1643324.html " target = " _ hplink " > find out how to do the perfect dumbbell overhead press here . < / a > dips : the faux pas < a href = " http : / / www.huffingtonpost.com / 2012 / 07 / 10 / how-to-exercise-triceps-dip _ n _ 1659434.html " target = " _ hplink " > find out how to do the perfect triceps dip here . < / a > dips : the fix < a href = " http : / / www.huffingtonpost.com / 2012 / 07 / 10 / how-to-exercise-triceps-dip _ n _ 1659434.html " target = " _ hplink " > find out how to do the perfect triceps dip here . < / a > side lunges : the faux pas < a href = " http : / / www.huffingtonpost.com / 2012 / 07 / 17 / how-to-exercise-side-lunge _ n _ 1677034.html " target = " _ hplink " > find out how to do the perfect side lunge here . < / a > side lunges : the fix < a href = " http : / / www.huffingtonpost.com / 2012 / 07 / 17 / how-to-exercise-side-lunge _ n _ 1677034.html " target = " _ hplink " > find out how to do the perfect side lunge here . < / a > lateral raises : the faux pas < a href = " http : / / www.huffingtonpost.com / 2012 / 07 / 16 / how-to-exercise-lateral-raise _ n _ 1677038.html " target = " _ hplink " > find out how to do the perfect lateral raise here . < / a > lateral raises : the fix < a href = " http : / / www.huffingtonpost.com / 2012 / 07 / 16 / how-to-exercise-lateral-raise _ n _ 1677038.html " target = " _ hplink " > find out how to do the perfect lateral raise here . < / a > crunches on a ball : the faux pas < a href = " http : / / www.huffingtonpost.com / 2012 / 07 / 31 / how-to-exercise-fix-your-form-ball-crunches _ n _ 1719734.html " target = " _ hplink " > find out how to do the perfect crunches on a ball here . < / a > crunches on a ball : the fix < a href = " http : / / www.huffingtonpost.com / 2012 / 07 / 31 / how-to-exercise-fix-your-form-ball-crunches _ n _ 1719734.html " target = " _ hplink " > find out how to do the perfect crunches on a ball here . < / a > bench press : the faux pas < a href = " http : / / www.huffingtonpost.com / 2012 / 08 / 07 / fix-your-form-how-to-exercise-bench-press _ n _ 1747599.html " target = " _ hplink " > find out how to do the perfect bench press here . < / a > bench press : the fix < a href = " http : / / www.huffingtonpost.com / 2012 / 08 / 07 / fix-your-form-how-to-exercise-bench-press _ n _ 1747599.html " target = " _ hplink " > find out how to do the perfect bench press here . < / a > bicycle crunches : the faux pas < a href = " http : / / www.huffingtonpost.com / 2012 / 08 / 13 / fix-your-form-how-to-bicycle-crunch-abs _ n _ 1772855.html " target = " _ hplink " > find out how to do the perfect bicycle crunch here . < / a > bicycle crunches : the fix < a href = " http : / / www.huffingtonpost.com / 2012 / 08 / 13 / fix-your-form-how-to-bicycle-crunch-abs _ n _ 1772855.html " target = " _ hplink " > find out how to do the perfect bicycle crunch here . < / a > bridge on a ball : the faux pas < a href = " http : / / www.huffingtonpost.com / 2012 / 08 / 21 / fix-your-form-how-to-exercise-bridge-ball _ n _ 1811672.html " target = " _ hplink " > find out how to do the perfect bridge on a ball here . < / a > bridge on a ball : the fix < a href = " http : / / www.huffingtonpost.com / 2012 / 08 / 21 / fix-your-form-how-to-exercise-bridge-ball _ n _ 1811672.html " target = " _ hplink " > find out how to do the perfect bridge on a ball here . < / a > leg press : the faux pas < a href = " http : / / www.huffingtonpost.com / 2012 / 08 / 28 / fix-your-form-how-to-exercise-leg-press _ n _ 1833521.html " target = " _ hplink " > find out how to do the perfect leg press here . < / a > leg press : the fix < a href = " http : / / www.huffingtonpost.com / 2012 / 08 / 28 / fix-your-form-how-to-exercise-leg-press _ n _ 1833521.html " target = " _ hplink " > find out how to do the perfect leg press here . < / a > lat pulldown : the faux pas < a href = " http : / / www.huffingtonpost.com / 2012 / 09 / 04 / fix-your-form-how-to-exercise-lat-pulldown _ n _ 1846635.html " target = " _ hplink " > find out how to do the perfect lat pulldown here . < / a > lat pulldown : the fix < a href = " http : / / www.huffingtonpost.com / 2012 / 09 / 04 / fix-your-form-how-to-exercise-lat-pulldown _ n _ 1846635.html " target = " _ hplink " > find out how to do the perfect lat pulldown here . < / a > torso rotation : the faux pas < a href = " http : / / www.huffingtonpost.com / 2012 / 09 / 11 / fix-your-form-how-to-exercise-torso-rotation _ n _ 1870821.html " target = " _ hplink " > find out why you should stop using the torso rotation machine here . < / a > torso rotation : the fix < a href = " http : / / www.huffingtonpost.com / 2012 / 09 / 11 / fix-your-form-how-to-exercise-torso-rotation _ n _ 1870821.html " target = " _ hplink " > find out why you should stop using the torso rotation machine here . < / a > chest press : the faux pas < a href = " http : / / www.huffingtonpost.com / 2012 / 09 / 18 / how-to-exercise-fix-your-form-chest-press _ n _ 1884554.html " target = " _ hplink " > find out how to do the perfect chest press here . < / a > chest press : the fix < a href = " http : / / www.huffingtonpost.com / 2012 / 09 / 18 / how-to-exercise-fix-your-form-chest-press _ n _ 1884554.html " target = " _ hplink " > find out how to do the perfect chest press here . < / a > assisted pull-ups : the faux pas < a href = " http : / / www.huffingtonpost.com / 2012 / 09 / 25 / fix-your-form-how-to-exercise-pull-up-machine _ n _ 1909397.html " > find out how to do the perfect assisted pull-up here . < / a > assisted pull-ups : the fix < a href = " http : / / www.huffingtonpost.com / 2012 / 09 / 25 / fix-your-form-how-to-exercise-pull-up-machine _ n _ 1909397.html " > find out how to do the perfect assisted pull-up here . < / a > triceps extensions : the faux pas < a href = " http : / / www.huffingtonpost.com / 2012 / 10 / 02 / fix-your-form-how-to-exercise-overhead-triceps-extension-press _ n _ 1929249.html " > find out how to do the perfect overhead triceps extension here . < / a > triceps extensions : the fix < a href = " http : / / www.huffingtonpost.com / 2012 / 10 / 02 / fix-your-form-how-to-exercise-overhead-triceps-extension-press _ n _ 1929249.html " > find out how to do the perfect overhead triceps extension here . < / a > seated fly : the faux pas < a href = " http : / / www.huffingtonpost.com / 2012 / 10 / 09 / how-to-exercise-fix-your-form-seated-fly _ n _ 1948942.html " > find out how to do the perfect seated fly here . < / a > seated fly : the fix < a href = " http : / / www.huffingtonpost.com / 2012 / 10 / 09 / how-to-exercise-fix-your-form-seated-fly _ n _ 1948942.html " > find out how to do the perfect seated fly here . < / a > reverse fly : the faux pas < a href = " http : / / www.huffingtonpost.com / 2012 / 10 / 16 / how-to-exercise-fix-your-form-reverse-fly _ n _ 1967258.html " > find out how to do the perfect reverse fly here . < / a > reverse fly : the fix < a href = " http : / / www.huffingtonpost.com / 2012 / 10 / 16 / how-to-exercise-fix-your-form-reverse-fly _ n _ 1967258.html " > find out how to do the perfect reverse fly here . < / a > abductors / adductors : the faux pas < a href = " http : / / www.huffingtonpost.com / 2012 / 10 / 22 / fix-your-form-how-to-exercise-hip-abductor _ n _ 2001455.html " > find out why you should stop using the abductor / adductor machine here . < / a > abductors / adductors : the fix < a href = " http : / / www.huffingtonpost.com / 2012 / 10 / 22 / fix-your-form-how-to-exercise-hip-abductor _ n _ 2001455.html " > find out why you should stop using the abductor / adductor machine here . < / a > row machine : the faux pas < a href = " http : / / www.huffingtonpost.com / 2012 / 11 / 08 / fix-your-form-how-to-exercise-row-machine _ n _ 2089918.html " > find out how to use the row machine properly here . < / a > did you noticed that all three routines require a lot of ' thrusting ' ?
this is why ' doing it ' on regular bases is one of the best exercises you can do .
jennifer _ malcosky _ terry : i wish planks didn & # 039 ; t hurt my wrists so much ...
five reasons to join us tomorrow for the global frackdown the u.s. blows everyone else out of the water in one key categorycredit suissehot on lawmakers take aim at iphone black market in wake of fatal robberyap al gore tried to buy twitter after copious amounts of tequilaap the horrifying way a school employee decided to teach kids a lessonwtvd-tv " the huffington post " is a registered trademark of thehuffingtonpost.com , inc .
all rights reserved . tajikistan | reliefweb the impact of landmines and explosive remnants of war in countries or territories the resilience of countries and communities living on the edge not only le rapport sur l ' « action humanitaire pour les enfants 2011 » a lancé un appel de 1,4 milliard de dollars é.-u. pour répondre à des crises humanitaires de plus en plus graves .
le rapport sur l ' « action humanitaire pour les enfants 2011 » insiste sur la nécessité d 'aider les communautés vulnérables à se préparer contre les catastrophes avant qu 'elles ne se all the support and assistance provided to reduce suffering of the population as you all know , as a result of an earthquake in political and socio-economic terms , in its geography , demography and and the current planning process has led to a large increase in the number for $ 1,456,894 to support the government of tajikistan in its efforts to of hunger and malnutrition is on the increase across the developing world , downturn is exacerbating the impact of the food crisis and increasing food and scaling up its services to assist the most vulnerable people in the needs and national context , and the current planning process has led to goodwood is a by-word for speed but lesley bellew found west dean gardens could not be hurried cropping , and tie in new ones to the support framework .
cut down the top growth of dahlias when it is blackened by at school , he was a bright student and was only 16 years old when he started at the university of sydney .
this new frontier had mawson in its spell and he knew he had to return .
mawson was near death - his feet were bloody , his skin was falling away and he had lost a lot of weight .
for the rest of his life sir douglas worked as professor of geology at the university of adelaide and was involved in forestry , farming and the conservation of the unique wildlife in our oceans .
syria is holding up to its end of the bargain to destroy its chemical weapons cache . ( 10 / 16 / 2013 4 : 56 : 28 pm ) what information does ibd collect from you and how is it used ?
registrationproducts and services requiring paymenthow we gather information from youcookiesweb beaconssharinglegal disclaimeraggregate informationthird parties may receive or collect information through ibdibd forumscommunication via emailsubscribing to and unsubscribing from emailsupplementation of information with affiliatessite and service updatessecurityphishingcorrection / updating personal informationpersonal information you disclosechildrenchanges to our privacy policy web beacons , also called web bugs and clear gifs are used in combination with cookies to help us understand the behavior of our customers .
a web beacon is typically a transparent graphic image that is placed on our site or in an email .
the use of a web beacon allows ibd to record the simple actions of the user opening the page that contains the beacon .
this privacy policy covers the use of cookies by ibd and its affiliates only and does not cover the use of cookies by any advertisers orthird party partners who help us serve ads ..
if you have any questions about the security at our web site , you can contact us at www.askibd.com.
the word " user ( s ) " means any person ( also referred to as " you " or " yours " ) visiting investors.com or holding subscription ( s ) to or trial ( s ) of any ibd product .
all trademarks used herein are the exclusive property of their respective trademark owners and may not be used in any way without written consent of owner .
you may use the content online and solely for your personal , non-commercial use , and you may download or print a single copy of any portion of the content for your personal , non-commercial use , provided you do not remove any trademark , copyright or other notice contained in such content .
no other use is permitted .
you may not , for example , republish the content on any internet , intranet or extranet site or incorporate the content in any database , compilation , archive or cache .
you may not distribute any of the content to others , whether or not for payment or other consideration , and you may not modify , copy , frame , reproduce , sell , publish , transmit , display or otherwise use any portion of the content without the written consent of ibd .
for information on requests to use of the content for any purpose other than as permitted in this paragraph , please see licensing .
mail orders : if you order a paid subscription to any of our services by mailing in an order coupon to ibd , your subscription will lapse at the end of the subscription term and will not automatically renew unless you have affirmatively checked the box indicating auto-renew on the order coupon .
in the event you checked the auto-renew option , your subscription will continue until terminated by ibd or until you notify ibd of your cancellation .
you may cancel your subscription at any time .
for details , refer to our cancellation policy and our refund policy .
by submitting a username and password on any ibd online community and / or forum registration page , you agree to be bound by the investors.comterms of useas well as thesupplemental termsset forth herein ( collectively " terms of use " ) . & # 149 ; create liability for use or cause us to lose the services of our isps or other suppliers .
fruit treesfeeding and wateringestablishing a new lawnshrubslawn fertilizergardening tipscommon lawn problemsweed controlsprinklerssoil preparationcaring for rosesmaking container gardenswhen to plant bulbs razorbacksone moore thoughtask a wildlife officerhogs & sec videolocal sportsnhl businessauto guidebeauty guidecareer guidefinance guidehealth guidehome guidelegal guideoutdoor guidemore guides arkansas spinal carecampbell financial serviceschenal mrij .
oliver ’ s jewelryrv citytazikis mediterranean cafeunink tattoo removalwilson auctioneersamerican powder coat arkansas ' most wantedemail alertsfamily healthgood day arkansasgood earth green houseidol chatterjob alertlive weather camerasmobilenewslinksneighborhood crime trackerpolitical newsrants and raveswhat 's going aroundmayflower oil spillstop bullying announcementsauto & transmission servicesbuilding & homebusiness & serviceseducation and instructionfarming & live stockmerchandisepetsreal estatetransportation othertravel & leisuretrucks & vehicles auto insuranceautomotive parts & systemscaring for your carelectricalenginesfuel & oilfuel systemgeneral informationgeneral maintenance & repairshandling emergenciesnew carsother automotive systemsoptionspre-owned carspreventive careprofessional repairstires featured jobsjobs in the newsjobs at fox16benefitscareers & educationdisciplinediscriminationdocuments & recordselectronic communicationsfinancial aidfinding a jobgeneral informationgetting additional informationhiringinterview tipsinterview typesjob fairsnegotiatingof interest to employerspayrollthe resumesafety & healthterminationtestingwhistle blower claims ( government fraud ) your job & the law banking & finance guidecredit counseling guideinsurance guidemortgage guidetax guidetax law guide electrical guidefurniture guideheating & air conditioning guidehome design & remodeling guidehome safety & security guidehousehold guideinterior designmortgage guidemoving guidepest control guideplumbing guidepool guidereal estate guidereal estate law guideroofing guidewater treatment guide bail bond guidebankruptcy guidecriminal law guideelder law guidefamily law guidegeneral legal guideimmigration & naturalizationlabor & employment lawmalpractice guidepersonal injury guidereal estate law guidesocial security & disabilitytax law guideworkers ' compensation boating basicstypes of outdoor furnishingsscuba divinggolf fundamentalsgolf equipmentgolf general informationgolf playing tipspool tablesfishingtypes of watercrafton the watergrillingoutdoor furnishingshuntinghiking & camping kindergartennewborn caregeneral informationhelping at homepediatric emergenciestravel caretypes of childcarepreschool / daycareselecting a schoolgrades one through sixchild safety in childcarechildcare trainingchild developmentchildcare & healthchoosing childcaredecisions about disciplinedental careparental concerns about teenscurriculum animal first aidcatscommon problems in animalsdogsgroomingnutrition in animalsolder petsother pets / exotic animalspet carepreventing problems in animalspuppies & kittensveterinariansveterinary oncology curriculumgrades one through sixtypes of childcarechildren 's activitiespreschool / daycareselecting a schoolhelping at homekindergartentravel carechildcare & healthchildcare trainingchild developmentchild safety in childcaredental caregeneral informationchoosing childcaredecisions about discipline site commentssponsorship requesttv tools for parentsviewer photos and videosviral videoeventsbig dam bridge 100light the nightstop bullying 90 seconds in the kitchencommunity eventscw arkansasel latinofox networkidol chatter speaking to journalists in dar es salaam yesterday pac chairman zitto kabwe stressed on transparency in the .
full story according to a statement released yesterday in dar es salaam , the specialist hails from the highly acclaimed shalby hospitals , ahmedabad – gujarat that is one of the largest centres in asia .
at least 67bn / - disbursed by the government to political parties as subsidies for the last four years has not been audited by the controller and auditor general as required by the law .
fire has engulfed products and machines in a sisal processing plant in tanga region property of mohamed enterprises in korogwe district thetanga regional police commander , costantine massawe has confirmed tanzanias have been urged to emulate the good principles set by mwalimu julius nyerere because many of them are still pertinent in safeguarding the nation ’ s unity .
independent television ( itv ) journalist ufoo saro is admitted to muhimbili national hospital with bullet wounds following a dispute at kibamba in suburban dar es salaam yesterday in which her mother and a man identified as antel andrew mushi died .
the conman would reportedly drive a defective car to a garage and request to be given another on condition to use it temporarily as his faulty one is repaired .
ilala municipality has launched the ’ mayor ’ s ball donate a desk ’ campaign aimed at collecting more than sh2bn for alleviating the shortage of desks for schools in the municipality .
simanjiro mp christopher ole sendeka ( ccm ) yesterday warned the ongoing anti-poaching and eviction operations in areas close to mkungunero game reserve in the district should not be a pretext to grab people ’ s land .
speaking to reporters yesterday at dar es salaam port , the minister for transport , dr harisson mwakyembe said the strike has shaken the country ’ s economy .
the havoc caused by the ongoing strike , called by truck owners four days ago to press for the reinstatement of five per cent allowable weight on overloaded vehicles , is fast manifesting itself .
media stakeholders who met in dar es salaam yesterday to discuss the ban imposed on various newspapers by the government , have indefinitely blacklisted the minister of information , youth , culture and sports , dr fenella mukangara and tanzania information services director assah mwambene .
the government has ordered tanzania electricity supply company ( tanesco ) to drag to court all persons involved in the embezzlement of 162m / - that was set to compensate evictees who were moved to make room for the firm ’ s infrastructures in the region .
the secretary general of the east african community ( eac ) dr richard sezibera has ascertained that at no point has tanzania been sidelined in matters of the regional bloc as it has been claimed by some people .
president jakaya kikwete is expected to be the guest of honour at an african medical and research foundation ( amref ) fundraising event to be held on friday at the serena hotel in dar es salaam and will be aired live on itv .
you can use special software to " subscribe " to individual programs so that to listen to one or more wsj podcasts feeds in your button and select " copy shortcut " or " copy link location " to copy wherever it asks for the location of the rss service or podcast you wish to subscribe to .
to see the archive of programs for a particular podcast in itunes , 70jareon road amphoe su ngai go lok changwat narathiwas 96120 0-7361-1231 s _ sungaikolok @ immigration.go.th of privacy and our company will act accordingly .
see faqs jump to content the buckingham festival of music and drama is no more .
people struggling to get a foot on the property ladder in north oxfordshire are being urged to have a look a new self-build project .
cover story : moving up the risk curve ~ gentleman pig farmer ~ mad max watches ~ schwarzman 's scholars ~ wearable history ~ spa vs. spa ~ the flying mansion ~ my lambo lap ~ hollywood 's banker ~ protect ipo windfalls with a trust ~ more states lower taxes ~ trend spotting : the latest fashions and passions .
brookfield zoo welcomes new baby dolphinthe doings la grangedolphin calf born at brookfield zoo near chicago , keepers ' cautiously optimistic 'nature world newshighly cited : dolphin calf born at brookfield zoochicago tribunesee all 14 sourcesrelated brookfield zoo ' elimu mwanzo mwisho ' campaign likened to nyerere 's education for all na malela kassim in his speech delivered to the nation on march 5th , 1998 at open university mwalimu nyerere had this to say , & ldquo ; not all of us will have the same concept of community , but all of us have a need to belong .
however socially insensitive we may be , we have a need to belong to a community of fellow human beings .
no human being can make it alone , & rdquo ; mwalimu had said .
the idea of mwalimu nyerere seems to be supported by some of tanzanians who are now ready to support their fellow tanzanians who are poor and cannot afford to get education as a result of luck of fund .
just as the founder of the nation mwalimu kambarage agited for all children to attend school regardless of the economic status , a dar es salaam based organization , the bonnah education trust fund .
the bonnah education trust fund is registered as a trust and it is a non-profit partisan and non religious voluntary organization . & ldquo ; we are real committed to invest in education and that is why when we were consulted by bonnah education trust fund to join hands in ’ elimu mwanzo mwisho ’ we didn ’ t hesitate to do so and that s why almost half of the intended students to benefit from the campaign are funded by tigo , ’ ’ she says .
zetes to produce the gambian passport and deliver an e-gate for border control twinning ceremony between darwen and gambia will be a celebration the 10 dumbest risks you can take with a smartphone the dodd-frank act paved the way for effective gun laws hurricane sandy , you got my home , but not my identity the profound failure of congress on cybersecurity ( and why you should care ) nobar : could it end the credit gap and get banks lending again ?
hacking the federal log jam : one agency at a time the next bubble : is it time for the feds to cap college tuition ?
flipping the bird : is the fed on twitter a horrible idea ?
source bruce sheppard nz in stirring the pot | 2 : 27 pm 19 august 2008 1 .
how secure is my income between now and when i retire ?
so here is a list of questions for any potential adviser .
1 .
what are the fixed costs , how do you charge for your time ? 2 .
if you invest in managed funds what are the costs structures of each and what if any commissions do you receive ? • now here is the biggie .
i am yet to meet a financial planner who eats his own porridge .
he expects you to put all your money with him and buy a portfolio of managed funds .
ask the planner you are talking to what he is doing with his money ?
if you are lucky they might have some of their money in their own product , if so ask to see their personal investment reports for as long as they have been involved in the industry .
if on their own money they have not done well , then i guess you can assume they won ’ t do well for you either .
now of course he might say to you well i am new in this game , and i am still paying off my home and i have nothing to invest .
they have to start somewhere but before you appoint them ask to meet the senior planner in the firm , there will be one , and ask to see what he does .
ask to see his whole balance sheet , how much has he got in the firm ’ s products relative to his total portfolio , how has his portfolio performed , has he been taking money out and putting it in , has he been trying to guess timing , find out how this guy got to the top of the tree .
again i have to tell you that mostly even the successful ones do not invest in the stuff they are trying to sell you , or if they do it is very minor and what is more they do try to guess timing .
what you are looking for is someone who does for himself what he wants to do for you , and can demonstrate with his own affairs that it works .
dominica darlene wallace gets 6 years for pimping " teen girl " who was really a cop homeour centersbrookings health systemarlington medical centerlet 's go ! 5-2-1-0brookhaven estatesbrookhaven virtual tourthe neighborhoods at brookviewour care philosophyresident roomsneighborhoods & householdstown centerservicesrehabilitation servicesvolunteering at the neighborhoodsevents at the neighborhoodscontact the neighborhoods at brookviewwhite medical cliniclet 's go 5-2-1-0yorkshire eye clinicmaster campus planed & lab remodelnew skilled nursing facilitynew imaging & surgery areaswhy brookings healthmission , values & visionunique service offeringsawards & accoladesserviceswomen 's servicesobstetricsgynecological surgery and incontinence surgerybreast biopsiesosteoporosis screeningsleep studiesregistered dietitian servicessurgical servicesbreast reconstructive surgerypediatrics surgeryholmium laser lithotripsygynecological surgery and incontinence surgeryda vinci ® robot assisted surgeryorthopedic servicespain managementimaging servicesmagnetic resonance imaging ( mri ) 32-slice computerized tomography ( ct ) osteoporosis screeningultrasoundnuclear medicinevascular screeningpediatrics imaging servicesdiagnostic x-rayrehabilitative servicescardiopulmonary rehabilitationoccupational therapyphysical therapyspeech therapyrespiratory caresleep studieslymphedema managementemergency servicesambulancemedical alert systemspediatrics emergency careoutpatient servicesnutritiondiabetes educationfoot care cliniclaboratory servicesinpatient servicesswing bedintensive care / eicupharmacyhome serviceshome healthhearthhospicehospice volunteerspediatrics serviceschaplain servicesoutreachour teamdoctorsstaffboard of trusteesexecutive leaderspatientswhat to expectpatient centerpay billunderstanding your billhealth informationpatient rights and responsibilitiesadvanced directivesimportant contact informationwaiting arearoom servicewireless internet accesspreregistrationpreparing for dischargemeet the newbornsformspatient cheer cardvisitorsvisitingabout our campustobacco-free campuslatex-safe environment when faced with all of this in 2008 and 2009 , our president and congress decided to ignore all of the underlying factors and rely on our central bank to manufacture trillions of new dollars to stabilize the banks while allowing our debt to spiral out of control and looking to increased taxes to stanch the bleeding .
all of this was driven by the decline in housing , where the bankers and politicians had all of our eggs stored . the unemployment some politicians ascribe to a softening of american spirit was actually caused by the reckless lending from banks and our government in between 2001 and 2008 . "
in a nutshell , until we reform our banking system to eliminate " too big too fail " and reform our political system to be less corrupted by the 150,000 folks who finance it at our expense , the mainstream dialog is nothing more than useless distraction . "
mike789 : wall street is fundamentally ill-structured .
it has put shackles on i like to use the example of mitt romney who made millions , basically buying , downsizing and selling companies for profit . the workers probably got layed off , or saw pay and benefit cuts . the money made by romney was put in a trust and hiden away from the tax man in the grand cayman islands . romeny and his family win big , the thousands of workers affected all lost .
the interstate commerce commission said in its report on the most disastrous of the recent wrecks on the new haven railroad : but it doesn ’ t have to be .
the most important thing is to do your the big day in the most delicious way .
so , what will you be slicing there ’ ll be no shortage of vintage bridal gowns to choose from in kent ’ s boutiques this season , as designers pick up on a new love walker gives his top tips on how to pick the get me to the church on time and in style !
if you were a un peacekeeper in a conflict country , what would you do if you came across a badly wounded teenage girl who had been gang-raped ?
which un rules and regulations would you follow ?
what would be your responsibility ?
watch out lauren jackson : bhutan 's queen jetsun pema wangchuk at her wedding to king jigme khesar namgyel wangchuck in 2011 .
photo : getty images elon musk is the anonymous buyer of the ... cnettesla founder elon musk buys james bond 's lotus esprit submarine carthe guardian - by stuart dredgehighly cited : elon musk is secret buyer who spent $ 866k on james bond 's lotus subjalopniksee all 48 sourcesrelated elon musk are you looking to rent a property in the catchment of amherst and riverhead schools in sevenoaks ?
then an immaculate five-bedroom house ...
moshi education officer joyce urassa urged education stakeholders in the country to step up aid and improve the school ’ s environment and academics .
contacts : deacon mike knuthmknuth @ dioceseduluth.org218-568-8226fr.
ryan moravitzrmoravitz @ dioceseduluth.org218-692-3731o criză cu viitor imprevizibil | cadran politic posted by dragoş tãbãran on apr 24th , 2003 / / comments off criza irakiana este extrem de complexa atât din perspectiva explicatiilor politice , economice sau militare , cât mai ales din cea a necunoscutelor legate de implicatiile regionale si chiar a undelor de soc la scara planetara .
al doilea conflict din golf & # 8211 ; daca este sa respectam conditiile oficiale , partea a doua a razboiului din 1991 & # 8211 ; a început în lipsa unei rezolutii a consiliului de securitate & # 8211 ; spun trei dintre cele cinci puteri cu statut de membru permanent & # 8211 ; sau în urma încalcarii de catre irak a rezolutiei 1441 si a documentelor anterioare care se refereau la oprirea programelor de dezvoltare a armelor de distrugere în masa .
primele victime ale acestei crize se numesc relatia transatlantica , nato , consiliul de securitate , parteneriatul ruso-american , relatiile de încredere care au functionat dupa disparitia sistemului international bipolar .
de ce tocmai irakul este centrul acestei neobisnuite provocari la adresa securitatii internationale în secolul al xxi-lea ?
un stat relativ tânar & # 8211 ; independenta a fost obtinuta abia în 1932 & # 8211 ; irakul se mândreste cu un trecut milenar .
într-adevar , daca egiptul a fost copilul nilului , irakul si istoria sa sunt rezultatul geografiei si , mai ales , al istoriei . resursele mesopotamiei au creat permanent surplusul de hrana necesar unei cresteri demografice exponentiale , factor de dezvoltare a numeroase civilizatii : ur , uruk , sumer , babilon , asiria etc .
au urmat califatul ummeyazilor , imperiul abasizilor , dar si ocupatia otomana , administratia britanica , regatul , republica , dictatura .
bogatia irakului a avut întotdeauna un caracter dublu : productiv si destructiv .
a generat state care nu si-au mai încaput în granite sau care au atras interesele imperiilor vecine .
în timpuri moderne , factorii economici s-au combinat cu cei ideologici si religiosi .
regimul lui saddam hussein este rezultatul evenimentelor politice din orientul mijlociu si a decolonizarii postbelice .
mesopotamia a redevenit în secolul al xx-lea ceea ce a fost în multe rânduri de-a lungul istoriei sale milenare : intersectia marilor câmpuri geopolitice .
nu întâmplator , irakul lui saddam hussein este rezultatul destramarii imperiului britanic & # 8211 ; un imperiu în care , ne amintim , soarele nu apunea niciodata & # 8211 ; si a aparitiei statului israel .
mecanismele politice si administrative inventate de britanici au ramas adânc în sistemul institutional irakian în ciuda loviturilor de stat si a asa-numitei revolutii baas socialiste , în fapt o încercare de control politic prin justificarea data de un socialism arab nationalist .
britanicii au manevrat clivajele profunde din interiorul societatii atât de fragmentate a irakului .
o societate dominata de conflicte etnice , economice , religioase , ideologice .
istoria contemporana a irakului este o încercare de a transforma acest haotic conglomerat într-o natiune .
din pacate , aceasta încercare a esuat într-o feroce dictatura .
britanicii au încercat sa controleze irakul prin încurajarea mecanismelor traditionale , tribale , bazate pe monopolul decizional al seicilor , si favorizarea unor institutii politice slabe .
mai mult , marea britanie a impus o monarhie straina & # 8211 ; hashemita & # 8211 ; a trasat frontiere artificiale & # 8211 ; care nu au nimic în comun cu harta etnica sau cu factorii geografici & # 8211 ; si a respins mereu miscarile nationaliste nascute în noile clase urbane .
irakul lui saddam s-a nascut din cele patru decenii , între 1918 si 1958 , din actiuni clandestine , subversive , urmate de violenta , lovituri de stat , reprimari si revolte kurde sau siite .
ajuns la putere , saddam hussein a utilizat petrolul pentru a demara ambitioase proiecte de dezvoltare . din nou , bogatia mesopotamiei si-a demonstrat caracterul dublu : productiv si destructiv .
exploatând aurul negru , saddam a dezvoltat industrii , a pus la punct proiecte moderne , de amploare , a construit , le-a dat irakienilor locuri de munca , educatie , sisteme medicale moderne , facilitati si gratuitati .
le-a dat prosperitate si ce si-au dorit mereu : o identitate nationala .
reversul medaliei a fost dictatura personala , un razboi sângeros cu iranul si o invazie a kuweitului pentru care si-a atras pedeapsa comunitatii internationale si un embargou catastrofal care a anulat tot ce s-a facut pâna în 1991 .
conflictul cu iranul si mai ales invadarea kuweitului au descoperit lumii o realitate multa vreme ignorata din ratiuni politice si , mai ales , economice : irakul , o tara cu urias potential , era condus de un dictator cu ambitii regionale , care avea programe de dezvoltare a armelor de distrugere în masa si care nu a ezitat sa le foloseasca împotriva tarilor vecine sau chiar a propriului popor .
occidentul dornic de petrol nascocise un nou hitler .
multi analisti au pus atacarea iranului pe seama unui sentiment al vulnerabilitatii .
saddam s-a temut ca ideile revolutiei fundamentaliste din iran se vor extinde în rândul populatiei siite irakiene .
o eventuala aliniere a siitilor la interesele politice ale iranului ayatolahilor ar fi lipsit irakul de petrolul sau & # 8211 ; mai toate câmpurile sunt în zone unde siitii sunt dominanti & # 8211 ; si în final ar fi distrus statul .
sprijinit de un occident care se temea si el de tendintele expansioniste ale revolutiei iraniene si care era extrem de preocupat de influenta crescânda a uniunii sovietice , dar si de statele sunnite din golf care se temeau de cresterea în putere a siismului , saddam a învins iranul , dar a facut o greseala strategica : a invadat kuweitul .
a considerat ca bogatia emiratului & # 8211 ; pe care irakienii îl considerau o regiune rebela & # 8211 ; poate compensa pierderile uriase din razboiul cu iranul & # 8211 ; peste 100 de miliarde de dolari .
în plus , în toti anii în care s-a aflat la putere , saddam hussein si-a urmarit un obiectiv strategic propriu : distrugerea israelului si proclamarea sa ca lider incontestabil al lumii arabe .
ultimul palat construit de saddam hussein la bagdad & # 8211 ; are 16 în capitala si 72 în toata tara & # 8211 ; este decorat cu doua uriase busturi : unul al lui salahudin & # 8211 ; califul kurd care i-a învins pe cruciati si a ocupat ierusalimul & # 8211 ; si celalalt al celui care s-a dorit al doilea salahudin : saddam hussein .
saddam hussein nu a fost niciodata iubit de arabi .
nici nu si-a dorit .
a vrut sa le fie frica de el si sa-l venereze în calitate de conducator absolut .
liderii arabi moderati îl considera un pericol pentru ca , prin actiunile sale , poate influenta stabilitatea si securitatea tarilor pe care le conduc . palestinienii îl aproba si îl pretuiesc pentru ca sprijina financiar & # 8211 ; spre deosebire de alte state arabe bogate & # 8211 ; cauza palestiniana .
o face însa din simpatie sau din dorinta de a ramâne în istorie ca liderul arab care a distrus israelul ?
statele unite si-au anuntat intentia de a împarti irakul post-saddam în trei sau chiar patru zone administrate militar de la centru pâna va deveni posibila instaurarea unui regim politic democratic , ales liber si bazat pe lege .
în rândul arabilor exista convingerea , însa , ca administratia americana doreste fragmentarea teritoriala a irakului .
este clar ca primul rezultat al disparitiei dictaturii saddam hussein va fi accentuarea tendintelor centrifuge .
kurzii isi doresc statul propriu , un stat considerat obiectiv politic imposibil de acceptat de turcia si iran .
este si motivul pentru care cele doua tari coopereaza împotriva factiunilor kurde din nodul irakului , desi fiecare dintre ele a încercat la un moment dat sa sprijine o grupare adversa .
ambitia politica a kurzilor este dublata de dorinta lor de a-si asigura resursele pe baza câmpurilor petrolifere din nordul irakului , de lânga mossul si kirkuk .
un alt obiectiv greu de acceptat de turcia si iran , dar nici de aceasta data de statele unite .
devenita realitate , fragmentarea irakului ar pune într-o pozitie excelenta cealalta grupare etnica & # 8211 ; siitii & # 8211 ; de fapt majoritari .
raspânditi în zonele petrolifere , siitii sunt banuiti de afinitati pro-iraniene desi multi dintre ei alcatuiesc o elita comerciala si stiintifica a irakului .
o eventuala desprindere a siitilor si , de ce nu , alipirea lor la iran ar perturba grav echilibrul regional , cu atât mai mult cu cât si emiratele din golf , mai putin regatul saudit , sunt dominate de siiti .
tot la capitolul perspective politice trebuie mentionate si undele de soc produse de anuntul adminstratiei bush privind intentiile de democratizare a lumii arabe . este o declaratie cu efect de tsunami într-o lume în care relatiile tribale si atotputernicii seici continua sa fie stâlpii de rezistenta . nici liderii arabi moderati apropiati occidentului nu sunt pregatiti sa accepte democratizarea reala a societatilor pe care le conduc .
pe de alta parte , destabilizarea echilibrului politic intern din aceste tari , existent în acest moment gratie unui regim de forta sia limitarii accesului maselor la bogatia data de petrol , ar favoriza gruparile si partidele islamiste , devenite extrem de puternice în ultimii ani .
nu trebuie sa evitam adevarul : dupa irak vor urma alte state !
nu este obligatorie însa optiunea militara .
vom vedea în anii ce urmeaza reforme politice , mai mult sau mai putin de buna-voie , în siria , arabia saudita , iran , yemen .
semnele unor evolutii de acest gen sunt evidente : reforme politice , inclusiv ale legii electorale , în iordania si siria .
tot în iordania , femeile au primit , pentru prima oara , dreptul de a fi reprezentate în parlament . iordania pare sa fie de altfel , dupa pacea cu israelul din 1994 , vârful de lance al transformarii lumii arabe .
o concluzie este prematura .
vom vedea daca viitorul va confirma convingerea statelor unite ca modelul democratic occidental poate fi adoptat si de statele arabe sau nu .
un esec însa ar aduce la putere fortele islamiste ancorate înca într-un feudalism dur , rigid si , lucrul cel mai important , profund anti-occidental . © 2003 cadran politic · rss · designed by theme junkie · powered by wordpress : : : . : : : . : : : welcome to apanews.net : tv , news , photos diocese of duluth - catholic church in northeastern minnesota minnesota dioceses : the archdiocese of saint paul and minneapolisthe diocese of saint cloudthe diocese of crookstonthe diocese of new ulmthe diocese of winona bishop hubbard the man and his ministry pt.1 fri oct 18 , 2013 12 : 21 am edt zombie survival author at rpi fri oct 18 , 2013 12 : 21 am edt new facebook privacy for teens thu oct 17 , 2013 6 : 21 pm edt norse energy shuts down , unable to drill in ny thu oct 17 , 2013 10 : 21 pm edt man struck , killed by train on elmira ’ s southside thu oct 17 , 2013 2 : 21 pm edt hadassah plans pre-mother ’ s day bake sale tue apr 24 , 2012 12 : 21 pm edt man burglarized homes , police say thu oct 17 , 2013 12 : 21 pm edt movie matinee set sunday at center thu oct 17 , 2013 12 : 21 pm edt parents against ’ federal takeover ’ thu oct 17 , 2013 12 : 21 pm edt weber carves out niche in hornell thu oct 17 , 2013 12 : 21 pm edt city issuing ban to fund sewer fix wed oct 16 , 2013 12 : 21 pm edt little red returns : ihs back in stac cheerleading competition thu oct 17 , 2013 8 : 21 pm edt sunyit named ’ military friendly school ’ thu oct 17 , 2013 8 : 21 pm edt top ny court will review bloomberg ’ s big-soda ban thu oct 17 , 2013 8 : 21 pm edt taxable full value dips on area properties wed oct 16 , 2013 12 : 21 pm edt clerk blasts fee for new veterans ’ licenses thu oct 17 , 2013 08 : 21 am edt candidates to square off in debates thu oct 17 , 2013 08 : 21 am edt ritchie invites public to ’ send a touch of home ’ to overseas troops thu oct 17 , 2013 10 : 21 pm edt fairley students use all five senses on a fieldtrip to the sterling nature center thu oct 17 , 2013 10 : 21 pm edt oco to raise awareness of runaway , homelessness thu oct 17 , 2013 10 : 21 pm edt ny offers quick grants for businesses hit by sandy fri oct 18 , 2013 06 : 21 am edt giving birth in philippine quake : ’ push and pray ’ fri oct 18 , 2013 06 : 21 am edt angel of hope in willsboro one of 122 fri oct 18 , 2013 04 : 22 am edt ladybugs may seek refuge in your home fri oct 18 , 2013 04 : 22 am edt cdc back at work to track the flu fri oct 18 , 2013 02 : 21 am edt local coffee roaster visited by columbian co-op fri oct 18 , 2013 12 : 21 am edt new zoning ok ’ d for neighborhood around walkway fri oct 18 , 2013 06 : 21 am edt state ’ s mortgage-help rv will be in wappingers falls today fri oct 18 , 2013 04 : 22 am edt gop aims to recruit monroe county latinos wed sep 25 , 2013 10 : 21 pm edt schumer calls for improved communication at 43 upstate va sites wed sep 25 , 2013 8 : 21 pm edt zoo society ’ s longtime leader to retire wed sep 25 , 2013 8 : 21 pm edt vote on gop plan delayed as debt deadline nears tue oct 15 , 2013 8 : 21 pm edt could a century-old law help syracuse crack down on nuisance properties ?
fri oct 18 , 2013 06 : 21 am edt police : man sped through waterford at twice the speed limit tue oct 15 , 2013 2 : 21 pm edt top ny court will review bloombergs big-soda ban fri oct 18 , 2013 12 : 21 am edt new judicial rule to prevent double dipping fri oct 18 , 2013 12 : 21 am edt today in the news : school bus hijacked by knife-wielding man thu oct 17 , 2013 8 : 21 pm edt jayni marie day wins best in show at wellsville art association members show wed oct 16 , 2013 4 : 21 pm edt the man who allegedly killed his sister with a shotgun in a gergal street and injured two others has been arrested .
dr brian hick was impressed by soloist laura van der heijden during the latest performance by maidstone symphony orchestra kathryn tye was among thousands of revellers to descend upon broadstairs for the start of eight days of music and dancing at its annual folk week if you see any of the following changes , bring them to your doctor 's attention : cover the entire breast from top to bottom , side to side — from your collarbone to the top of your abdomen , and from your armpit to your cleavage .
how to apply : applicant will call 501-230-5662 for an interview .
gesture-enabled apps — you can now wave in the air in front of the front-facing camera to get a response .
for example , in the new app bing food & drink , a right-to-left wave in " hands free mode " flips through pages of a recipe .
quicker tile organizing — you can tap and hold windows tiles with your finger to move them .
another couple taps will allow you to resize them in one of four sizes .
in the previous version , you had to go back to the mouse or touchpad and right-click on tiles to do this , and you were limited to two sizes .
the < a href = " http : / / cachef.ft.com / cms / s / 0 / a20ccd80-d16e-11df-96d1-00144feabdc0 , s01 = 1.html # axzz1gxnejil8 " target = " _ hplink " > financial times < / a > wrote of microsoft 's efforts , " surfing the tv on a keyboard and web browser sounds about as enticing as pushing a rickety shopping cart across the plush carpet of a designer boutique . "
now , where do i go vent about the crappy new version of yahoo mail ?
those of us with data caps don 't necessarily want the automatic updating of bloatware .
so i presume you can turn it off ? " you are never going to beat the reliability of a linux or unix machine " proudtobeveryliberal : " you are never going to beat the reliability of a so pin everything to the taskbar and desktop , no " metro " i wish i could but when i dropped my old laptop and had to get a new one , i couldn 't find one that would allow use of older versions of windows . i hate windows 8 .
l ’ édification d ’ un etat de droit , démocratique , soucieux de la dignité de la personne humaine , de la sécurité et de la prospérité pour tous. la priorité dans la politique du cndd et sa part du budget passera à 15 & percnt .
elle obéira au principe de la modernisation par l ’ introduction de la mécanisation et des acquis de la recherche scientifique ; au principe de la diversification des cultures vivrières et industrielles et au principe de la rationalisation avec agricoles sera encouragée .
pour cela , le gouvernement cndd va créer cinq centres pilotes de développement intégré dans les cinq régions du pays : nord , sud , processus de développement endogène local .
a cet effet , il va de l ’ agriculture , de l ’ elevage et de la nutrition organisé en un secrétariat d ’ etat à la production agricole et à l ’ alimentation et un secrétariat d ’ etat à l ’ etat sur toute l ’ étendue de la république .
cela permettra de réduire sensiblement les conflits récurrents entre les citoyens et l ’ etat sur informées , formées et sensibilisées sur le travail agricole et sur sa éleveur suivra une formation dans ces domaines pour maîtriser son savoir faire dans ces deux secteurs vitaux du pays , la formation sera sanctionnée par un choix des espèces plus productives .
équilibrage entre les bananes à cuire et les veillera au choix de nouvelles boutures de manioc et combattra la maladie de la du maïs et du blé connaîtra une forte augmentation afin de combattre la faim et de pouvoir vendre aux industries et aux particuliers .
les boulangeries seront les haricots , les arachides , le soja , les petits pois : leur production sera augmentée pour procurer à la population des protéines et pouvoir vendre aux industries .
les patates douces et les pommes de terre : nous allons sélectionner les espèces les plus résistantes et les plus rentables .
les palmiers à huile : mieux étudier les potentiels alimentaire et industriel du palmier à huile , organiser une meilleure distribution de l ’ huile de palme .
le riz : augmenter la production pour en limiter les importations .
les légumes et les fruits : production et procurer le pays les devises dont il a besoin , le cndd va formation et de l ’ information , ces techniciens seront orientés vers les pays production et lutter contre la contrebande , les prix d ’ achat au planteur seront encouragés à prendre des actions dans les coopératives , sociétés de fournis pour apporter un maximum de valeur ajoutée par transformation de développement seront gérées sous forme de coopératives .
la population des le cndd s ’ engage à encourager la production , la transformation , la conservation , la commercialisation et la distribution des produits agricoles pour garantir la sécurité alimentaire de la population .
a cette fin , le cndd envisage d ’ élaborer des programmes régionaux de développement pour exploiter au maximum les opportunités de spécialisation régionale dans la production agricole , de créer des offices de produits vivriers et réhabiliter la fête agricole .
de plus le cndd va encourager , par des mesures fiscales et réglementaires , la création des coopératives d ’ achat d ’ intrants agricoles et de commercialisation des produits agricoles .
pour redonner l ’ honneur à l ’ agriculture il sera instauré une fête nationale de l ’ agriculture. ainsi que la lutte contre l ’ érosion et les sols acides , l ’ utilisation des semences sélectionnées ( à l ’ exclusion des ogm ) , la modernisation des outils rationalisation des circuits des produits agricoles , la régulation des prix des produits agricoles en vue d ’ une juste rémunération et la transformation équipements agricoles .
le cndd assurera donc l ’ accès aux prêts pour la afin de permettre au monde rural d ’ épargner en sécurité .
il veillera à la micro-crédit sur tout le territoire burundais , à la création d ’ un fonds de agences de crédit agricole dans toutes les provinces pour augmenter l ’ accès du monde rural à l ’ épargne ainsi qu ’ à la garantie de la totalité de provinciales de crédit agricole seront des centres d ’ excellence en matière de données , de recherches et d ’ analyses des économies locales afin de mieux en matière d ’ élevage , le cndd s ’ engage à encadrer et à former les éleveurs , promouvoir la recherche d ’ espèces plus productives et résistantes , encourager la création des coopératives d ’ éleveurs et à faciliter leur accès aux crédits , repérer et aménager des zones d ’ élevage pour le petit et le gros bétail , introduire l ’ usage à large échelle des plantes fourragères , promouvoir la pisciculture et la culture des algues marines lacustres sur les lacs , protéger les espèces marines lacustres ainsi que les zones de pêche. élaborer une carte d ’ aménagement du territoire burundais dans son entièreté .
dans ce but , il va créer un ministère de l ’ aménagement du territoire et de l ’ environnement ( ou ministère du développement durable ) , mettre en place une naturelles du pays et élaborer un plan directeur d ’ aménagement du territoire prévoyant l ’ implantation des villages , des centres urbains , des pistes rurales , des routes d ’ intérêt régional , y compris les chemins de fer. organisée dans la capitale et en province .
il sera créé des écoles et instituts spécialisés ainsi qu ’ une garde chargée de faire respecter les codes de l ’ industrie , aux routes et autres infrastructures sociales .
les zones destinées publics et privés ainsi que l ’ espace réservé à la construction des habitations pour les citoyens seront déterminées par la loi .
a bujumbura et dans toutes les villes du burundi , une zone dite & bdquo ; aire administrative « sera déterminée .
cœur de l ’ administration , il y sera érigé les grands bâtiments publics abritant les administrations de l ’ etat .
cela évitera la dispersion des services de l ’ etat. pour l ’ étude et la mise en exécution de ce programme. gestion de l ’ environnement passera par le choix d ’ énergies non polluantes , l ’ entretien des parcs nationaux , des aires et des espèces protégées , une politique de collecte et de traitement des déchets industriels et ménagers , une campagne soutenue de reboisement des espaces arides et des bordures des axes routiers , le tout s ’ appuyant sur une éducation des citoyens à la bonne des rivières et des lacs , notamment le lac tanganyika sera menée. en place un système de ramassage et de traitement des déchets : eaux matière de préservation de l ’ environnement et inciter les industries à de sécurité de l ’ environnement .
il s ’ appliquera à la réhabilitation des banlieues contre l ’ exclusion et la bidonvilisation ; ainsi qu ’ à la conservation et à l ’ utilisation durable de la biodiversité ( faune et flore ) , notamment celle du lac tanganyika et des autres réserves naturelles , par la généralisation des méthodes de protection de l ’ environnement , du maintien et de la restauration de s ’ engage à réhabiliter les réserves naturelles et le reboisement de tous les sommets , plantation des arbres permettant d ’ enrichir et de protéger les sols comme le neem , les bambous , les arbres fruitiers … ainsi il sera instauré moins une journée de travaux communautaires par mois et un service national pour le reboisement de tout le pays en trois ans et encourager toute personne physique ou morale ou collectivité locale qui se sera illustrée dans le projet de protection et de dépollution des rivières et des lacs , notamment le attention particulière sera attirée pour préserver la faune et la flore burundi a été coupé , transformé en bois de chauffage et vendu parfois à l ’ étranger .
cela a eu comme conséquence l ’ irrégularité des pluies et la du pays qui a déjà commencé dans la province de kirundo et qui a déjà fait de allons mettre sur pied un programme de reboisement du pays .
les arbres comme les eucalyptus qui appauvrissent le sol par la consommation de grandes quantités d ’ eau et dont les effets négatifs sont la diminution des nappes phréatiques “ in contrast to congress , diversity diminishes in washington legislature ” — the seattle times “ new jersey email voting a casualty in sandy ’ s wake ” — politico central arkansas is one of four communities nationally in which the initiative ...
arkansas democrat-gazette reports on the hijacking of a pulaski county school bus in jacksonville by a man with a knife .
a police pursuit — not at high speed — developed ....
an " associate " of sri lanka 's president and five other men are charged with the murder of an aid worker in the country on christmas day 2011 . ( 10 / 18 / 2013 3 : 42 : 18 am ) the coordinator said registration is still on and forms are also available at capital plus international office in dar es salaam , nyamagana stadium in mwanza and in all district cultural offices in mwanza region .
he said one of the duty of at is to ensure that all foreign athletes adhere to all legal procedures before participating. diet of polar bear , seal , and whale is resulting in " unacceptable " manufacturers of bridal desses infringement of privacy and our company will act accordingly .
seenetflix not so nifty - barrons.com © 2013 indexmundi - all rights reservedhouses and porperty all over thailand we feel it is a good time to buy property due to the insecurity of the present economic situation , except oil .. here if you do the paperwork right .
prices are a lot cheaper than the first thing you need to do is obtain the services of a reputable is not regulated so watch out for agents forcing you to sign contracts , deed to make sure the property is what it says .
do yourself a big mortgages and want to unload the houses before they pay off the loan lost if he did not use our service .
the same goes with the boundaries of the property which need to be the same as the title deed .
in thailand there 's no survey pegs as understate property area or move so called pegs .
do not pay any down have had the title checked by a lawyer .
if the building is under construction or the land is having a subdivision look carefully at the provisions for issuing a title , and easement rights for say roadways .
if you are a foreigner you can lease for 30 years or form a company to hold the house if you are going do not start a company for the sake of securing your house .
as at 2006 march immigration and company registration are now interviewed as well as what business you are doing ? ? ? ? this law has always been but now it is being enforced as at may 25th 2006 .
the document does not indicate legal possession of the informer so one cannot transfer the ownership of the property to any one else .
the sor kor 1 is rare now as the government 's land ownership legislation has nor sor 3 is a governmental letter certifying a utilization of certain difference is the map survey of the land plot based on an aerial-viewed ownership title deed or chanote is the ultimate certification of be a friend who procures a builder for the foreigner then has a separate contract with the builder for his cut which is 1 / 2 of the asking satang which is not even a baht .
if you need a good builder in chiangmai lawyer or ask us as we can give you a quote with times etc if you want they ask in advance you could find yourself in a bad situation .
itemize the materials and also how many men they will have on the job and also and will offer you discounts and extras just to get your business .
if of your new home and meets the agreed requirement on specification .
if presidente maduro se reúne con oficiales del alto mando de la armada bolivarianael presidente de la república bolivariana de venezuela , nicolás maduro , sostiene una reunión esta tarde con oficiales del alto mando de la armada bolivarianapolicía de maracaibo podría ser intervenida por incumplir nuevo modelo de seguridadel viceministro comentó que en este momento son inspeccionados los cuerpos policiales del estado , a fin de verificar su buen funcionamiento y agregó que le hace ... develan estatua de hugo chávez en buque escuela simón bolívareste viernes fue develada una estatua del líder de la revolución bolivariana , hugo chávez , sobre el mascarón ( proa ) del buque escuela simón bolívar , en una actividad que ...
presidente maduro se reúne con oficiales del alto mando de la armada bolivariana policía de maracaibo podría ser intervenida por incumplir nuevo modelo de seguridad develan estatua de hugo chávez en buque escuela simón bolívar más de 13.000 jóvenes se incorporarán a las ubch en todo el país un total de 13.683 jóvenes se habrán integrado a las unidades de batalla hugo chávez ( ubch ) al finalizar octubre , a fin de garantizar la victoria revolucionaria en los comicios municipales del 8 de diciembre próximo el ministro para el despacho de la presidencia y seguimiento de la gestión de gobierno , wilmer barrientos , difundió este viernes el documento con el cual el presidente nicolás maduro designa oficialmente a calixto ortega como vicecanciller para europa venezuela participa en inauguración de sede internacional de parlamento latinoamericano el presidente del parlatino grupo venezuela , rodrigo cabezas , señaló que " venezuela está proponiendo que américa latina trabaje por la nueva arquitectura económica financiera para tener un fondo de reservas , para tener nuestras propias instituciones financieras como el banco del sur " presidente reitera que solicitud de habilitante irá a fondo en nuevo modelo económico " esta coyuntura de la guerra económica debe ser considerada como una oportunidad para profundizar en el nuevo modelo económico socialista .
vamos a aprovechar esta nueva oportunidad para dar un revolcón económico " , expresó maduro desde la base aérea libertador , en aragua fiscalía presentará otras 3 personas tras decomiso de droga en vuelo de air france aprobados bs 88,5 millones para mejoras en base aérea libertador en el estado aragua cgp renovará 25 comités ciudadanos de control policial en noviembre heads of the sco member states signed the bishkek declaration president almazbek atambayev met with his chinese counterpart xi jinping « манас оюндарында » ордо боюнча мелдеште талас облусунун командасы жеңишке жетишти кадамжай районунун майдан айылынын тургундары алтын кенинин иштешине каршы чыгып жатышат кр мукк караколдогу башаламандык учурунда камакка алынган жаштардын абалы боюнча билдирүү таратты christian beddies informed president atambayev on the results of work of the imf mission presidents of tajikistan , uzbekistan and azerbaijan congratulated atambayev and people of kyrgyzstan on kurman ait holiday society president almazbek atambayev is taking part in a session of csto collective security council youth center and kindergarten to be open in batken with the help of dfid and unicef representatives of the ministry of foreign affairs of the kr and osce discussed the " road map " of cooperation in 2014 international art exhibition " tour of peace " opened in bishkek in frames of sco summit 2011 all rights reserved . © copyright kabar national news agency © software support by expresskg iaa à tel aviv , si vous voulez vous faire soigner , il faudra d 'abord prouver que le 1er juillet 2013 , gabi barbash , directeur du centre médical ichilov à tel aviv , fait circuler des instructions pour interdire l ’ accès aux immigrés ou aux réfugiés africains désirant rendre visite à des patients , sauf en cas d ’ urgence .
officiellement pour des raisons de santé publique , afin de & bdquo ; minimiser les risques pour la santé des patients et du personnel « , rapporte le quotidien les africains venus pour une hospitalisation , des examens ou des soins médicaux sont cependant autorisés à entrer , explique le site .
les parents d ’ enfants malades ou les maris de femmes en travail peuvent également accéder à — patients et visiteurs — doivent subir une radio de la poitrine pour prouver qu ’ ils ne sont pas porteurs de la tuberculose , apprend-on encore .
a l ’ intérieur même de l ’ hôpital , les patients se voient discriminés , ajoute haaretz : les femmes enceintes et les enfants d ’ immigrés sont placés dans un espace séparé du reste de la maternité ou de l ’ aile pédiatrique .
selon un responsable d ’ ichilov , cette directive n ’ a qu ’ un but purement médical , réduire les risques de contagion .
en effet , d ’ après le quotidien maariv , en 2012 , 15 israéliens ont été diagnostiqués de la tuberculose contre 65 africains .
cette maladie nécessite la mise en place d ’ une quarantaine , d ’ un personnel spécifique et de soins individuels très coûteux , explique l ’ article .
la direction de l ’ hôpital ichilov se plaint depuis plusieurs années de devoir prodiguer un grand nombre de traitements médicaux aux migrants et aux réfugiés sans aucune compensation financière , avance haaretz .
pourtant , d ’ après le trésor public israélien , le coût supplémentaire engendré par ces patients est négligeable par rapport à ce que rapporte l ’ activité de l ’ hôpital .
d ’ après maariv , le nombre d ’ immigrés africains clandestins à tel aviv est estimé à 80.000 , soit environ 15 & percnt de la population .
beaucoup d ’ entre eux ont besoin de soins intensifs , notamment parce que le taux de naissances prématurées est deux fois plus élevé chez les africains que pour le reste de la population , en plus de la tuberculose , ils sont aussi particulièrement touchés par d ’ autres maladies : la population africaine représente un tiers des nouveaux porteurs du sida en israël et la moitié des diagnostics de malaria , indique la pauvreté dans laquelle vivent ces travailleurs clandestins ne fait qu ’ empirer leurs problèmes de santé , contractés dans leur pays d ’ origine et aggravés durant le voyage jusqu ’ en israël , déplore gabi barbash , qui estime à environ 50 millions de nis ( plus de 10 millions d ’ euros ) par an les frais la mesure discriminante répond-elle donc à une problématique économique ou de santé publique ?
autre perspective , plus sombre , elle ne serait qu ’ un témoignage the two snowmobiles quickly turn to small specks on the white snowfield .
mountaineer brian mccullough is in the lead , a thick rope secures his machine to one driven by scientist stephen hasiotis .
the two men are also harnessed and roped together .
they ’ re making the first snowmobile traverse on this route to a feature called wahl glacier .
a trail from a large field camp in the central transantarctic mountains had led them more than halfway , threading through a crevasse field , and up and down rises in the valley .
now they ’ re in virgin territory , and mccullough expertly steers to a large rock outcrop the team has dubbed " the castle ” near wahl glacier .
hasiotis , a paleontologist from the university of kansas , hopes to add to an already impressive trove of finds based on previous reports of fossils in the area .
hasiotis isn ’ t your typical antarctic fossil hunter .
man bleeds from his eyes , stumping doctorsthe tennesseanmore weirdyeti mystery solved ? ..
insane bike backflip ..
gator in hot tub ..
go-pro fire-breathing ..
news shrooms former president ahmed abdallah sambi has instigated hostilities with his successor ikililou dhoinine and is paving the way for the next election . ( ... )
the swiss-british trading company vitol has just won its third contract to supply oil products to moroni – much to the dismay of its four rivals . ( ... )
the new ceo of the autorité portuaire des comores ( apc ) , mohamed djaffar , who was ( ... )
the new commander in chief of the national gendarmerie of the union of the comoros , ( ... )
report of the secretary-general on the situation in abyei ( s / 2013 / 577 ) the african union strongly condemns the killing of peacekeepers in darfur , sudan militiamen reportedly assaulted a number of residents of the murnei camps for the displaced , west darfur , in the areas of wadi ghazal and tour .
speaking to radio dabanga an eyewitness reported that “ government-backed militiamen in military uniforms , riding on camels and horses ” , opened fire on a commercial vehicle en route from um el kheiraat to gereida , on the second day of the eid el adha .
east jebel marra ( 17 oct . ) - the sudanese air force reportedly continued its bombardments on the area of east jebel marra .
three people were allegedly killed and 10 injured in the area of laluba , north of kass in south darfur , when gunmen attacked a bus on its way el geneina to nyala on monday .
the bus transported 60 passengers .
the authorities in kass were informed , but did not persecute the assailants .
the sudanese air force reportedly bombed the region of east jebel marra on the second day of the eid el adha .
sudan interview : “ if each of us accepts this kind of suffering , it ’ s a shame on humanity ” sudan , he says , is at a critical juncture in its recent history .
“ we ’ re talking about the establishment of a changed thinking in terms of how sudan wants to envisage itself in the next couple of years , ” he said .
“ does it want to continue to be a recipient of humanitarian aid , or does it want to get out of this conflict issue ? ”
usvi officials in panama to explore transshipment opportunities for st croix august 24 , 2013 st thomas , usvi -- governor john de jongh said on friday he shares the concerns of the aviation industry on st croix , which has warned the us virgin islands ’ elected leaders that continued air traffic to the island can be jeopardized by the planned shutdown of the hovensa facility .
ts / tv , transvestite escorts and latina shemales in usvi virgin islands official urges us to reconsider rate used in calculating rum tax rebates © 2013 indexmundi - all rights reserved spectacualr a big hit - fox16.com little rock , ar manama : lawmakers in kuwait have lashed out at amnesty international for criticising a proposal to introduce ‘ clinical tests ’ to bar homosexual or transgender foreigners from entering and working in any of the six gulf cooperation council ( gcc ) member & # 8230 ; home | about | search | site map | blogfocus on company and country in picking emerging-market etfs - barrons.com infringement of privacy and our company will act accordingly .
see tajikistan | reliefweb during the 10th replenishment of the asian development fund ( adf xi ) , the asian development bank ( adb ) and adf donors agreed to pilot the disaster response facility ( drf ) in the adf xi period , 2013 – 2016 .
adb will report on the implementation progress of the drf at the adf xi midterm review , and discuss the future of the drf with the adb board of directors and adf donors at the adf xii negotiations .
tajikistan : torture unchecked in the absence of rule of law the police told me “ if we kill you we ’ ll chuck your body in the canal and no one will ever find you and we won ’ t get punished ” torture , beatings and other ill-treatment are routine in places of detention in tajikistan and thrive in a climate of widespread corruption and impunity , amnesty international said in a new report in which it urged the authorities to roundly condemn and stamp out the practice .
thereare many resources available on the internet .
beloware a few sites recommended by the office of worship , diocese of duluth .
kendra wilkinson ’ s brother slams her after pregnancy reveal , says she ’ s ‘ inconsiderate psychotic ’ plastic surgeons have helped make kim kardashian the woman she is today .
but now , her boyfriend and baby daddy kanye west is cutting her off from nips and tucks . & hellip ; readon the plot thickens !
gwyneth paltrow & # 8217 ; s 2008 dealings with hunky hotelier at the crux of forthcoming vanity fair takedown piece ?
gwyneth paltrow & # 8216 ; s past dealings with miami hotelier jeff soffer are at the heart of the forthcoming vanity fair piece rumored to come as a big blow to the hollywood & hellip ; readon kim kardashian ripped for saying ‘ no justice ’ in trayvon martin trial : ‘ your dad was oj ’ s lawyer ’ celebrity twitter pics of the week !
the good , the bad & the outrageous kim kardashian and nikki minaj left little to the imagination in this week & # 8217 ; s roundup of tweets & # 8212 ; check them all out , right here on radaronline.com. & hellip ; readon khloe kardashian & # 8217 ; s not single , but sure looked sleek and sexy as she shopped with sister kourtney in beverly hills thursday . & hellip ; readon heidi klum is on the move .
the model mom-of-four is downsizing and has snapped up a six-bedroom bel air mansion for $ 9.875 million and radaronline.com has all the photos and & hellip ; readon kim kardashian tormented by cyber trolls after posting & # 8216 ; disgusting , & # 8217 ; & # 8216 ; nasty & # 8217 ; instagram selfie what baby weight ?
kim kardashian looked like she was back to her bootylicious self when she posted an instagram pic of her infamous booty on instagram wednesday night .
boyfriend kanye & hellip ; readon crocodile dundee co-stars and spouses paul hogan and wife linda have called it quits , radaronline.com is reporting .
according to a new report from us weekly , the 28-year-old is & hellip ; readon the wedding ’ s off !
victoria ’ s secret model alessandra ambrosio & fiancé split was it the horrifying pictures of her fiancé recklessly driving with their baby son on his lap that ended the relationship ?
victoria ’ s secret model alessandra ambrosio and her fiancé jamie & hellip ; readon luann de lesseps having a ‘ tough time ’ being single after love split !
ke $ ha says she & # 8217 ; s electrocuted her crotch & # 8212 ; in the name of art , of course !
pretty in pasties !
nicki minaj shows off risque topless pics first kim kardashian showed off her banging booty and now radaronline.com has the very risqué photos nicki minaj shared where she is topless and showing off her ample cleavage covered & hellip ; readon hot picswillem dafoe out and about in new york city on october 17 .
will chris and albie manzo actually admit that mom caroline has an annoying habit ?
the plot thickens !
gwyneth paltrow ’ s 2008 dealings with hunky hotelier at the crux of forthcoming vanity fair takedown piece ? © 2013 radar online , llc | privacy policy | terms of use " i am the reigning champion of the italian disabled weightlifting and my plan is to defend it late next month , i have been involved in sports so as to get busy with my life " , he said .
de nicola said the cyclist will be accompanied by two safety vehicles , two normal bicycle riders and a tandem and will cycle all the way from matembwe to dar es salaam .
they will only use a vehicle at mikumi national park as it is against the country laws to cycle at the place .
according to him places which de angelis will visit include njombe school for the deaf run by the lutheran dioceses of njombe , mtwango day care centre run by cesc project , wanging ’ ombe cbr centre run by cesc project , ipogolo day care centre run by call africa , iringa , neema craft and day care centre run by nyumba ali and ilula day care centre and orphanage run by ilula catholic mission .
other places to be visited by de angelis are morogoro amani centre and mamangido rehabilitation centre , bagamoyo dar care centre run by traced.and dar es salaam ccbrt and cefa ( less is more project ) .
we use grapeshot as a contextual targeting technology , allowing us to create custom groups of stories outside out of our usual site navigation .
grapeshot stores the categories of story you have been exposed to .
their privacy policy and opt out option can be accessed here.istoria macedoniei & # 8211 ; cezar dobre | cadran politic în istoriografia română , există două filoane preţioase ale cercetărilor privind europa de sud-est .
cel dintâi , are la origine crearea , în 1913 , la bucureşti , a institutului de studii sud-est europene , de către nicolae iorga , gheorghe munteanu-murgoci şi vasile pârvan .
cel de-al doilea , institutul de studii şi cercetări balcanice , fondat în 1938 , la bucureşti , de victor papacostea .
graţie acestor două instituţii ştiinţifice şi a unei pleiade de cercetători de înaltă valoare , în istoriografia română s-a conturat o direcţie de cercetare – aceea a studiilor privind europa de sud-est – , ilustrată prin contribuţii documentare şi interpretative , care au căpătat o largă recunoaştere ştiinţifică .
periodice precum „ revue historique du sud-est européen ” şi „ balcania ” au cunoscut cote de apreciere ştiinţifică , neîntâlnite în bibliografia istorică românească .
în descendenţa acestor iluştri înaintaşi , s-a plasat şi regretatul profesor gheorghe zbuchea , de la facultatea de istorie a universităţii din bucureşti .
bizantinist de formaţie , el a trecut , apoi , la studiul europei de sud-est în perioada modernă , având , astfel , avantajul de a cunoaşte rădăcinile istorice ale unor situaţii dintr-o arie , care a aparţinut , după formula fericită a lui dmitri obolenski , commonwealth-ului bizantin .
unul din elevii săi , domnul vladimir cezar dobre , şi-a consacrat teza de doctorat studiului problemei macedonene , a implicării româniei în problema macedoneană şi a activităţii macedo-românilor pe teritoriul ţării noastre .
oricine este , cât de cât , familiarizat cu istoria balcanică cunoaştea complexitatea problemelor din această arie , considerată drept „ butoiul de pulbere ” al europei .
tensiuni , lupte , războaie au devastat peninsula balcanică şi au pus pe istorici în faţa unor mari dificultăţi atât în reconstituirea trecutului , cât şi în interpretarea lui .
domnul vladimir cezar dobre nu s-a lăsat descurajat de aceste dificultăţi , şi , întemeiat pe o informaţie bogată , a izbutit să se orienteze în labirintul problemelor balcanice , să prezinte aspecte puţin cunoscute ale problemei macedonene – în ansamblul ei – şi să-l facă pe cititor să înţeleagă de ce şi astăzi problema macedoneană şi problema macedo-românilor rămâne deschisă .
firul ariadnei în străbaterea acestui labirint a fost pasiunea pentru istorie a autorului .
el a izbutit să ofere imaginea clară a unei chestiuni încărcate de patimi şi ură .
pentru cititorul român , soarta fraţilor noştri sud-dunăreni nu poate fi indiferentă .
aşa cum spunea , cu dreptate , nicolae iorga în aceşti fraţi ai noştri din sudul dunării este mai multă romanitate decât în noi pentru că s-au aflat un timp mai îndelungat sub stăpânirea romei .
istoria însă nu i-a răsfăţat , şi , astăzi , romanitatea sud-dunăreană traversează o perioadă dificilă .
un interes deosebit prezintă paginile consacrate de autor „ societăţii de cultură macedo-române ” , care a adunat în cadrul ei oameni devotaţi neamului lor atât de la nord , cât şi de la sud de dunăre , şi care au jucat un rol esenţial în afirmarea identităţii etnice şi în dezvoltarea culturii române .
volumul de faţă este nu numai o contribuţie istorică , dar şi un prilej de meditaţie .
cunoaştem – graţie investigaţiei domnului vladimir cezar dobre – un capitol agitat al istoriei balcanice şi , în acelaşi timp , suntem invitaţi să gândim asupra responsabilităţii noastre faţă de soarta românilor macedoneni .
« previousîmpotriva manipulării , vol 1 & # 8211 ; războiul secret din anul 1989 & # 8211 ; nina georgescu © 2010 cadran politic · rss · designed by theme junkie · powered by wordpresscisco 's chambers on dividends and growth - barrons.com scientists do not all agree on the precise explanation for the apparently catastrophic erosion by water , but the effects are nonetheless startling .
as in most regions of perennially frozen ground , permafrost patterns often form in the loose sand and gravel of the dry valleys. and i still don 't care. i love smoking and have no plans to quit. the " dangers " of secondhand smoke are way , way overblown .
chunks of ice of all sizes which break off continental ice sheets and ice shelves in a process known as " calving " .
individual icebergs range from a few meters to tens of miles in diameter .
how can there be a priest shortage when our diocese has more than twice as many seminarians as it had 10 years ago ?
any or all of these models could appear in the recommendations submitted by deanery planning groups .
who serves on the diocesan planning committee and how were they selected ?
liz hoefferle — a former director of religious education and member of the bishop ’ s committee on catechesis for the diocese of duluth deacon rodger brannan — serves as a deacon at the cathedral of our lady of the rosary ; experience as an accounting professor and with statistics subscribe to costa blanca news ; costa levante news ; costa almeria news or costa del sol news and join the group of people who are best informed about living in spaindigital subscription ( e-paper ) with an e-paper subscription you can read your paper on line , where and whenever you wish.order form > > > newspaper samplewould you like to peruse one of our newspapers briefly ? here you can read one of our old editions to enable you to get to know the paper .
sample e-paper > > > february 21 , 2013 philipsburg , st maarten -- the island of st martin and st maarten now has a free app for iphone and android in four languages , providing comprehensive and current information about what ’ s happening and is interesting for visitors and locals .
suspect arrested in deaths of us couple in st maarten joint central bank quarrel escalates between curacao and st maarten man pleads not guilty to abuse of corpse thu oct 17 , 2013 6 : 13 pm edt mcconnell : further shutdowns ’ off the table ’ thu oct 17 , 2013 6 : 13 pm edt survey : obamacare befuddles iowans fri oct 18 , 2013 06 : 13 am edt iowa native tuskegee airman dies fri oct 18 , 2013 06 : 13 am edt google surges to record high on ad clicksbloombergmoto x has yet to stem the losses at motorolaforbes - by parmy olsonin depth : google tops estimates , but prices of ads slidenew york timessee all 467 sourcesrelated google a seemingly improbable alliance between the ffs and fln parties - it was announced in a letter to ffs leader hocine ait ahmed by the fln ’ s boss , amar saadani on sept . ( ... )
named chief of cma cgm algerie in august , marc messana , a graduate of france ’ s st cyr military academy , inherited a load of trouble . ( ... )
changes are continuing at the top of algeria ’ s departement du renseignement et de la securite ( drs ) .
the surprise appointment of general ali bendaoud as boss of the direction de la ( ... )
hamed koffi zarour has emerged as one of the most active lobbyists in touting algerian ( ... )
a specialist in algeria ’ s oil industry , sadek boussena is presently being courted ( ... )
exista pareri diferite despre modul în care ar trebui abordat programul de înarmare nucleara al coreei de nord .
pentru liderii politici sud-coreeni , dorinta washingtonului de a nu negocia direct cu phenianul reprezinta o bariera în calea încheierii unui acord care ar rezolva în mod pasnic actuala criza nucleara .
aceasta viziune este împartasita , de asemenea , de catre rusia , china si japonia .
pe de alta parte , oficialii americani sunt sceptici în legatura cu posibilitatea de eliminare permanenta a capacitatilor nucleare nord-coreene prin negocierea unui acord , si cred ca sunt necesare presiuni si dialoguri multilaterale pentru evitarea recompensarii comportamentului coreei de nord .
asa cum promitea presedintele george w. bush în discursul privind starea natiunii , & # 8220 ; america si restul lumii nu vor fi santajate & # 8221 ; .
aceste abordari diferite se datoreaza în principal interpretarilor diferite ale obiectivelor nord-coreene .
coreea de nord sustine ca nu doreste sa santajeze pe nimeni , însa una din sarcinile principale în rezolvarea actualei crize este chiar evaluarea adevaratelor intentii ale phenianului .
privesc liderii nord-coreeni armele nucleare ca un mijloc de reunificare prin forta a peninsulei coreene ?
au decis ei ca armele nucleare sunt esentiale pentru supravietuirea regimului , facând imposibila negocierea unui acord ?
sau acest program de înarmare reprezinta un truc la care coreea de nord este dispusa sa renunte , daca pretul este corect ?
este greu sa gasim raspunsuri la aceste întrebari .
o problema ar fi faptul ca informatii sigure despre dinamica interna a procesului de luare a deciziilor în coreea de nord sunt foarte rare .
o alta problema o reprezinta faptul ca liderii nord-coreeni au puternice interese de a-si ascunde adevaratele intentii , pentru a-si maximiza capacitatea de negociere si pentru a minimiza reactiile internationale referitoare la programul de înarmare nucleara .
dificultatea stabilirii intentiilor nord-coreene a fost demonstrata în timpul negocierii cadrului de acorduri din 1994 , în urma carora coreea de nord a înghetat programul de înarmare nucleara , obtinând în schimb pacura si doua reactoare .
acest acorduri au limitat capacitatile coreei de nord de producere a plutoniului , însa nu se stie daca aceasta tara nu avea deja destul plutoniu pentru fabricarea armelor nucleare .
un obiectiv cheie al nord-coreenilor în timpul negocierilor a fost pastrarea cât mai îndelungata a ambiguitatii în ceea ce priveste statutul nuclear , pentru maximizarea capacitatii de negociere .
din acest motiv , negociatorii nord-coreeni au refuzat cererile statelor unite pentru efectuarea unor inspectii .
daca inspectorii ar fi descoperit ca nord-coreenii nu au destul plutoniu pentru fabricarea armelor nucleare , americanii nu ar mai fi luat în serios coreea de nord , reducându-i acesteia din pârghiile de negociere .
în mod contrar , daca s-ar fi descoperit ca exista destul plutoniu pentru fabricarea armelor nucleare , statele unite nu ar mai fi fost de acord cu semnarea unui tratat .
în cele din urma , prin cadrul de acorduri s-au cerut inspectii speciale pentru a determina istoria nucleara a coreei de nord , înainte de livrarea componentelor cheie ale celor doua reactoare .
acest compromis a permis pastrarea ambiguitatii asupra capacitatilor nucleare nord-coreene si , implicit , mentinerea puterii de negociere asupra statelor unite , pentru înca opt ani .
actuala criza a început în octombrie 2002 , atunci când oficialii americani au confruntat coreea de nord cu dovezi ale unui program de îmbogatire a uraniului , ceea ce reprezinta a doua cale de fabricare a armelor nucleare .
oficialitatile nord-coreene au recunoscut existenta unui program nuclear si au început sa faca presiuni pentru ca statele unite sa negocieze cu ei , în ciuda insistentelor guvernului american de a nu & # 8220 ; recompensa & # 8221 ; aceasta atitudine prin concesii .
pe masura ce criza s-a agravat , administratia bush a continuat sa refuze negocieri directe cu coreea de nord , daca aceasta nu termina programul de îmbogatire a uraniului .
statele unite au încercat sa mobilizeze presiuni internationale asupra nord-coreenilor , si sa gaseasca un forum multilateral de consultari , care sa cuprinda si tarile importante din asia de est .
nord-coreenii spun ca doresc din partea statelor unite recunoasterea suveranitatii tarii lor , asigurarea securitatii si neobstructionarea dezvoltarii economice .
oficiali nord-coreeni au declarat ca , în ciuda faptului ca s-au retras din tratatul de neproliferare nucleara , nu intentioneaza sa produca arme nucleare & # 8220 ; în acest moment & # 8221 ; .
dar nu este înca clar daca programul de îmbogatire a uraniului ar trebui interpretat ca o dovada ca nord-coreenii au intentionat tot timpul sa nu respecte cadrul de acorduri , daca acesta ar fi fost o bariera în calea unei posibile rezilieri a acestor acorduri , sau daca nord-coreenii au vazut noi pârghii de negociere datorate erodarii cadrului de acorduri .
dificultatea stabilirii cu acuratete a intentiilor nucleare ale coreei de nord complica foarte mult sarcina de a formula o politica coordonata si efectiva de raspuns .
daca liderii nord-coreeni sunt hotarâti sa obtina capacitati de fabricare a armelor nucleare , atunci obiectivul politicii de raspuns ar trebui sa fie gasirea unei modalitati de a-i opri , sau cel putin de a diminua impactul pe care l-ar avea aceste arme asupra securitatii din asia de est si asupra regimului de neproliferare nucleara .
însa , daca liderii nord-coreeni sunt dispusi sa abandoneze programul de înarmare nucleara în schimbul asigurarii securitatii si asistentei economice , atunci obiectivul ar trebui sa fie încheierea unui acord prin care sa se confirme înlaturarea capacitatilor nucleare .
divergentele asupra motivelor care au stat la baza actiunilor nord-coreene au cauzat scindari referitoare la politica vizând coreea de nord atât în interiorul administratiei bush , cât si în cadrul legaturilor dintre statele unite si aliatii sai din asia si a relatiilor cu alti actori regionali , cum ar fi china si rusia .
serioase scindari în interiorul administratiei bush , referitoare la politica coreei de nord , au fost evidente înca de la instalarea acestei administratii .
unii oficiali au dorit sprijinirea politicii presedintelui sud-coreean , kim dae-jung , de continuare a negocierilor cu coreea de nord , care au început la sfârsitul administratiei clinton .
aceasta pozitie a reflectat convingerea ca liderii nord-coreeni ar putea renunta la importante capacitati militare , pentru un pret corect .
alti oficiali sustineau retragerea din cadrul de acorduri si adoptarea unei politici mai dure , orientate spre schimbarea regimului de la phenian .
aceasta pozitie se baza pe prezumtiile ca liderii nord-coreeni nu puteau fi de încredere în aderarea la anumite acorduri , si ca ei nu ar renunta niciodata la capacitatile nucleare .
aceste scindari au fost facute publice în martie 2001 , atunci când secretarul de stat , colin powell , a declarat ca statele unite se pregatesc sa reia negocierile cu coreea de nord , pentru a fi contrazis de catre bush trei zile mai târziu .
revizuirea ulterioara a politicii americane fata de coreea de nord a durat patru luni , în principal datorita luptei dintre moderatii si radicalii din interiorul administratiei bush .
au fost luate în considerare diferite optiuni , printre care si retragerea din cadrul de acorduri , însa , în final , s-a recomandat & # 8220 ; o mai buna implementare & # 8221 ; a cadrului , combinata cu eforturi de negociere a unui alt acord , referitor la programele de dezvoltare a rachetelor balistice cu raza lunga de actiune , la exporturile de astfel de rachete , si la desfasurarea fortelor conventionale .
mai buna implementare & # 8221 ; se referea la accelerarea eforturilor de a convinge coreea de nord sa accepte inspectii ale capacitatilor nucleare din partea agentiei internationale pentru energie atomica ( iaea ) .
scopul declarat era acela de a obtine amânarea constructiei reactoarelor , însa inspectiile erau destinate , de asemenea , înlaturarii ambiguitatii referitoare la capacitatile nucleare nord-coreene .
perioada dintre iunie 2001 si octombrie 2002 a fost marcata de contacte diplomatice sacadate între statele unite si coreea de nord , punctate de amenintari , insulte si incidente militare .
administratia bush si-a exprimat dorinta de a se întâlni cu liderii nord-coreeni & # 8220 ; oricând , oriunde si fara preconditii & # 8221 ; , însa eforturile de demarare a negocierilor au fost în mod repetat obstructionate de catre lipsurile si declaratiile guvernamentale .
deoarece administratia bush a reactionat la atacurile teroriste din 11 septembrie prin sublinierea legaturilor dintre terorism si armele de distrugere în masa , radicalii au facut presiuni pentru o politica mai dura referitoare la coreea de nord .
discursul tinut în 2002 de catre presedintele bush , privind starea natiunii , eticheta coreea de nord ca facând parte din & # 8220 ; axa raului & # 8221 ; , amenintând statele unite .
cu toate ca oficiali ai departamentului de stat continuau sa-si exprime dorinta de a negocia cu nord-coreenii , fragmente din reviziuirea situatiei nucleare a statelor unite au aratat ca pentagonul facea planuri pentru eventualitatea unor atacuri nucleare împotriva a sapte tari , inclusiv coreea de nord .
anumite scurgeri de informatii sugerau ca aceasta va fi urmatoarea tinta , dupa irak .
toate acestea au constituit impedimente ale importantei vizite pe care adjunctul secretarului de stat , james kelly , a efectuat-o la phenian , în octombrie 2002 .
interpretarile diferite ale intentiilor nord-coreene au dus , de asemenea , la deteriorari ale relatiilor sua cu aliatii sai , precum si ale celor cu china si rusia .
administratia bush a facut eforturi formale de a-si coordona pozitia fata de coreea de nord cu cea adoptata în aceeasi privinta de catre coreea de sud si japonia , prin vizite la nivel înalt si întâlniri regulate ale comisiilor de supraveghere .
cu toate acestea , eforturile au contat prea putin pentru rezolvarea fundamentala a identificarii intentiilor nord-coreene si a abordarilor diferite asupra politicilor de raspuns .
desi coreea de sud si japonia sunt îngrijorate de potentialul armamentului de distrugere în masa al coreei de nord , majoritatea analistilor sud-coreeni si japonezi considera ca obiectivul nord-coreenilor este acela de a negocia un acord cu statele unite , care sa includa garantii de securitate , relatii politice si economice mai bune , si asistenta financiara .
în timp ce americanii considera programele nucleare si de dezvoltare a rachetelor balistice cu raza lunga de actiune nord-coreene ca o mare amenintare , coreea de sud apare relativ calma , poate si pentru ca majoritatea sud-coreenilor nu cred ca cei din nord vor folosi aceste arme împotriva lor .
coreea de sud , japonia , rusia si china vad refuzul statelor unite de a negocia direct cu coreea de nord ca o cauza a actualei crize nucleare .
cu toate ca aceste state sustin ca peninsula coreeana sa fie libera de arme nucleare , ele sunt sceptice ca mobilizarile internationale ale administratiei bush si refuzul acesteia de a negocia direct cu coreea de nord , vor avea rezultate pozitive .
totodata , ele sunt îngrijorate ca o marginalizare a phenianului poate duce coreea de nord la un comportament neprevizibil si periculos , ce s-ar putea solda cu un conflict militar .
disensiunile din interiorul administratiei bush au creat confuzii în rândul aliatilor sua si au subminat deseori initiativele sud-coreene si japoneze de a negocia cu coreea de nord .
de exemplu , în timpul vizitei sale de la washington , din martie 2001 , presedintele kim dae-jung a facut apel ca statele unite sa & # 8220 ; masoare oportunitatea & # 8221 ; de a negocia cu nord-coreenii , pentru a fi pus într-o situatie stânjenitoare atunci când bush a declarat , în timpul conferintei de presa comune , ca nu are încredere în kim jong ii .
multi sud-coreeni au speculat faptul ca divergentele din cadrul administratiei bush au fost intentionate , având scopul de a discredita politica coreei de sud si de a împiedica miscarea de unificare a peninsulei , ceea ce a dus la cresterea sentimentelor anti-americane si la tensionarea relatiilor bilaterale .
parerile diferite vizând aderarea coreei de nord la un acord negociat reprezinta principala cauza a dezacordurilor dintre statele unite si coreea de sud referitoare la pozitia adoptata fata de nord-coreeni .
pe de alta parte , aceste dezacorduri reflecta si dorinta seulului pentru o evolutie politica graduala a regimului nord-coreean , urmarind reducerea costurilor reunificarii , un obiectiv care este în contradictie cu dorinta anumitor oficiali americani , care încearca rasturnarea sistemului politic condus de catre kim jong ii .
care din urmatoarele abordari sunt corecte , depinde , în mare masura , de ceea ce doreste coreea de nord .
în stabilirea intentiilor nucleare nord-coreene , ar trebui sa se tina cont de cinci scenarii : liderii nord-coreeni au decis ca armele nucleare sunt esentiale pentru securitatea tarii lor acest scenariu sustine ca liderii nord-coreeni se simt amenintati de capacitatile militare superioare ale statelor unite si ca americanii au în vedere schimbarea regimului , ce va fi precedata de atacuri militare .
din acest motiv , nord-coreenii au ajuns la concluzia ca armele nucleare reprezinta singurul mijloc pentru garantarea supravietuirii regimului în fata acestor amenintari .
acest scenariu este în concordanta cu interpretarile serviciilor de informatii americane , care considera ca nord-coreenii au produs una sau doua arme nucleare în ultima jumatate a anilor & # 8217 ; 90 .
daca acest scenariu ar fi adevarat , probabil ca nici un acord pasnic nu ar putea opri programul de înarmare nucleara al coreei de nord , cu exceptia cazului în care liderii de la phenian s-ar razgândi în aceasta privinta .
statele unite , coreea de sud , japonia si china vor trebui fie sa recurga la actiuni militare si sa distruga arsenalul nuclear al coreei de nord , fie sa se obisnuiasca cu gândul la acesta si sa se bazeze pe intimidari si sisteme de rachete defensive .
multiplele încercari nord-coreene de obtinere a armamentului nuclear si eforturile de dezvoltare a rachetelor balistice cu raza lunga de actiune indica faptul ca regimul a alocat resurse considerabile în acest domeniu .
pe de alta parte , coreea de nord a irosit un numar de oportunitati de accelerare a programelor de dezvoltare a armelor nucleare si a rachetelor balistice .
daca nu ar fi semnat cadrul de acorduri , ar fi putut termina constructia reactoarelor de 50 si 200 megawati si ar fi reprocesat combustibilul pentru producerea de plutoniu .
pâna acum , regimul ar fi avut material fisionabil pentru cel putin 150-200 de arme nucleare .
de asemenea , coreea de nord a declarat un moratoriu unilateral asupra testelor de zbor a rachetelor cu raza lunga de actiune .
liderii nord-coreeni sunt dispusi sa renunte la programele nucleare si de dezvoltare a rachetelor , în schimbul unui acord care sa le garanteze securitatea si suveranitatea tarii lor acest scenariu sustine ca liderii nord-coreeni se simt amenintati de capacitatile militare superioare ale statelor unite si de eforturile americane de a izola economic si politic coreea de nord .
coreenii au urmarit dezvoltarea armamentului nuclear si a rachetelor balistice cu raza lunga de actiune pentru a-si dezvolta pârghii de negociere în crearea unor noi relatii cu statele unite , care sa asigure supravietuirea regimului si un cadru care sa permita reforme economice .
dovezile acestui scenariu includ declaratiile repetate ale liderilor nord-coreeni despre dorinta lor de a negocia cu statele unite restrictionarea armamentului nuclear si a rachetelor balistice , si limitarea exportului de astfel de rachete .
semnarea acordurilor , moratoriul testelor de zbor si discutiile cu administratia clinton indica faptul ca nord-coreenii doreau limitarea capacitatilor militare .
din aceasta perspectiva , eforturile coreei de nord de a dezvolta capacitati de îmbogatire a uraniului reprezinta încercari de a gasi un atu în negocierea pentru concesii economice si de securitate .
este posibil chiar ca aceste eforturi sa se fi dorit a fi descoperite de catre americani , pentru a fi & # 8220 ; vândute & # 8221 ; .
succesul precedent al nord-coreenilor de a convinge statele unite sa mareasca ajutorul alimentar în schimbul permiterii unor inspectii la o centrala de la kumchang-ri ( care au demonstrat ca aceasta nu detinea echipament nuclear ) , sugera ca un bluf nuclear nu ar fi exclus .
pe de alta parte , statele unite , japonia , coreea de sud si china ar dori sa vada ca nord-coreenii încep reforme politice si economice .
poarta catre relatii mai bune , care sa sprijine reformele economice , este larg deschisa , însa coreea de nord ezita sa paseasca prin ea .
amenintarile la adresa securitatii nu sunt necesare pentru a avea relatii mai bune , si chiar pot submina eforturile de îmbunatatire a acestora si a perspectivelor de cooperare economica .
de asemenea , intentiile demonstrate ale coreei de nord de a încalca tratatele internationale vor face greu de negociat viitoare acorduri , deoarece încrederea statelor unite a scazut .
liderii nord-coreeni doresc atât arme nucleare ( ca ultima garantie a securitatii ) , cât si relatii mai bune cu statele unite , japonia si coreea de sud conform acestui scenariu , liderii nord-coreeni au încercat sa-si mentina optiunile deschise prin derularea programelor de înarmare nucleara si de dezvoltare a rachetelor balistice , cautând , în acelasi timp , îmbunatatirea relatiilor cu statele unite , japonia si coreea de sud .
o posibilitate ar fi ca liderii de la phenian sa vada aceste programe ca o asigurare pentru cazul în care nu ar putea negocia un acord cu statele unite referitor la securitatea regimului nord-coreean .
daca sua ar veni cu o oferta care sa garanteze supravietuirea regimului , coreea de nord ar fi dispusa sa renunte la programele de înarmare nucleara si de dezvoltare a rachetelor balistice .
în caz contrar , coreenii vor continua dezvoltarea unei forte operationale dotate cu arme nucleare si rachete balistice cu raza lunga de actiune .
o alta posibilitate ar fi ca liderii nord-coreeni sa fi intentionat sa triseze înca de la început .
acordurile de restrictionare a programelor si a exporturilor de rachete au fost create în scopul de a obtine avantaje financiare si de a câstiga timp pâna când coreea de nord sa dezvolte capacitati nucleare operative .
de partea cealalta , liderii de la phenian pot crede ca statele unite , japonia si coreea de sud vor trece cu vederea capacitatile nucleare mici si ambigue ale lor , si ca aceste state doresc oricum îmbunatatirea relatiilor .
politica dusa de sud-coreeni si recentele eforturi ale japonezilor de normalizare a relatiilor diplomatice , în ciuda temerilor legate de rachetele nord-coreene , reprezinta un motiv pentru acest scenariu .
atât scenariul asigurarii , cât si cel al nerespectarii angajamentelor , explica unele aspecte ale comportamentului coreei de nord , cum ar fi scala redusa a programului de înarmare nucleara , dorinta de acceptare a limitarii temporare a arsenalului nuclear ( facând , în acelasi timp , eforturi de dezvoltare a unor capacitati mai avansate ) , si dorinta de a avea relatii cu statele unite , japonia si , la o scara mai mica , cu coreea de sud .
aceste scenarii sugereaza ca liderii nord-coreeni fie au estimat în mod eronat reactia internationala de raspuns la politica lor nucleara , fie au considerat ca efectele negative pot fi depasite odata cu semnarea unui acord .
lideri sau factiuni nord-coreene sunt de acord ca armele nucleare sau negocierea unui acord cu statele unite nu reprezinta cea mai buna cale de asigurare a securitatii acest scenariu priveste comportamentul coreei de nord ca un rezultat al schimbarii puterii între diferite factiuni interne nord-coreene .
una din factiuni , orientata spre armata , poate crede ca armele nucleare sunt esentiale pentru securitatea coreei de nord ; cealalta factiune considera ca negocierea unui acord ofera mai multa securitate .
fiecare din aceste factiuni are abilitatea de a întreprinde actiuni internationale în mod independent .
acest scenariu ar putea explica de ce , în unele cazuri , coreea de nord coopereaza si cauta semnarea unor acorduri , iar în alte cazuri submineaza într-un mod agresiv negocierile .
de asemenea , ofera o posibila explicatie pentru programul de îmbogatire a uraniului urmarit de catre nord-coreeni .
deoarece unele beneficii promise în urma acordurilor au fost amânate ( ca , de exemplu , aprovizionarea reactoarelor si încercarile de normalizare a relatiilor cu statele unite ) , balanta puterii de la phenian s-ar fi putut schimba , îndepartându-se de la respectarea angajamentelor , catre eforturi de dezvoltare a armamentului nuclear , pentru asigurarea securitatii coreei de nord .
pe lânga acestea , eforturile precedente ale nord-coreenilor de a obtine tehnologii de îmbogatire a uraniului si echipamente de productie din pakistan , sugereaza o decizie de nerespectare a acordurilor sau de a face presiuni pentru rezilierea lor .
desi acestea ar putea explica comportamentul coreei de nord , stilul nord-corean de negociere demonstreaza câteodata atente eforturi de a controla atmosfera negocierilor si de a maximiza presiunile asupra partenerilor prin actiuni si declaratii bine coordonate .
acest tip de control este dificil de explicat în cazul scenariului factional .
de asemenea , este important de mentionat ca schimbarea balantei puterii între factiunile de la phenian poate face grea , daca nu imposibila , negocierea unui acord durabil .
liderii nord-coreeni doresc arme nucleare si rachete balistice pentru actiuni ofensive împotriva coreei de sud toate scenariile precedente pleaca de la premisa ca obiectivul principal al liderilor nord-coreeni este apararea , asigurarea supravietuirii actualului regim .
o presupunere alternativa este ca nord-coreenii vad în armele nucleare un mijloc ofensiv pentru obtinerea unificarii peninsulei în termenii lor .
alianta militara a statelor unite cu coreea de sud este principalul obstacol pentru o reunificare prin forta .
acest scenariu subliniaza riscul potential reprezentat de armele nucleare si de rachetele balistice cu raza lunga de actiune nord-coreene pentru teritoriul statelor unite , daca sua ar interveni ca raspuns la o invazie sau o coercitie militara asupra coreei de sud .
aceasta problema a fost ridicata de nenumarate ori de catre sustinatorii sistemului defensiv cu rachete , care afirma ca un stat paria ( & # 8220 ; rogue state & # 8221 ; ) ar putea folosi capacitati nucleare pentru a împiedica statele unite sa intevina într-un conflict .
libertatea americana de actiune , spun ei , poate fi mentinuta numai prin rachete defensive .
acest scenariu este în concordanta cu alte aspecte ale doctrinelor militare si a desfasurarilor de trupe nord-coreene .
majoritatea unitatilor militare ale coreei de nord sunt situate în apropierea zonei demilitarizate , fiind pozitionate si antrenate pentru operatiuni ofensive .
capacitatile de fabricare a armelor chimice si biologice , masive bombardamente ale artileriei si operatiuni ale fortelor speciale ar putea fi folosite pentru a sprijini o invazie a sudului .
din aceasta perspectiva , interesul manifestat de coreea de nord pentru negocierea unui acord prin care sa renunte la armele nucleare si la rachetele balistice , ar putea fi în scopul mascarii eforturilor de achizitionare a unor noi capacitati ofensive .
pe de alta parte , coreea de nord spera ca , din cauza ei , sa apara intrigi între statele unite si coreea de sud , care sa slabeasca sau sa dizolve alianta dintre cele doua state .
( declaratiile sud-coreenilor conform carora seulul ar trebui sa joace rolul de mediator între phenian si washington sugereaza faptul ca o astfel de strategie ar putea avea o doza de succes . )
un contra-argument al acestui scenariu ar fi faptul ca abilitatea nord-coreenilor de a lansa o invazie asupra sudului s-a diminuat ca urmare a prabusirii economiei .
coreea de sud a continuat modernizarea dotarilor militare si a programelor de instruire , în timp ce coreea de nord nu a importat sisteme noi militare de mai bine de zece ani .
armata nord-coreeana duce lipsa de piese de schimb pentru sistemele importate , iar limitarea aprovizionarii cu carburanti a influentat programele de instruire .
daca obiectivul coreei de nord ar fi fost invadarea coreei de sud , probabil ar fi facut eforturi de obtinere a armelor nucleare si a rachetelor balistice cu raza lunga de actiune mult mai devreme , în loc sa închida elemente cheie ale capacitatilor de producere a plutoniului si sa declare încetarea testelor de zbor a rachetelor .
cu toate ca acest scenariu nu poate fi exclus , principala & # 8220 ; dovada & # 8221 ; care îl sustine este faptul ca anumite capacitati nucleare ar putea , teoretic , ameninta statele unite .
fiecare din aceste cinci scenarii explica anumite aspecte ale comportamentului coreei de nord .
din nefericire , este greu de spus care este corect .
daca se intentioneaza ca armele nucleare sa fie folosite ca optiuni militare ofensive , atunci , cel mai probabil , oficialii nord-coreeni vor apela la masuri înselatoare pentru a-si ascunde intentiile .
daca ei au decis ca armele nucleare le sunt necesare pentru supravietuirea regimului , atunci crearea impresiei ca agresiunea statelor unite le-a împins catre un program nuclear le-ar putea îmbunatati imaginea internationala .
( coreea de nord a avut succes în convingerea unor guverne asiatice ca intransigenta americanilor este în mare masura cauza actualei crize . )
pe de alta parte , chiar daca coreea de nord ar fi pregatita sa negocieze renuntarea la capacitatile nucleare , ea tot ar avea motive ca sa apara sovaitoare si agresiva , chiar neprevizibila , pentru a obtine avantaje maxime în timpul negocierilor .
oficialii americani au încercat sa creeze politici de abordare care sa sublinieze dificultatea stabilirii intentiilor nord-coreene .
politica revizionista din 1998 si 1999 , condusa de fostul secretar al apararii , william perry , sugera o strategie pe doua cai pentru a testa intentiile coreei de nord .
perry a recomandat oferirea catre nord-coreeni a alegerii între alternativa unui angajament mai strâns si relatii mai bune cu statele unite , si alternativa continuarii ostilitatilor si a politicii de îngradire . & # 8220 ; prin încorporarea a doua cai , strategia creata în revizuire evita dependenta de conjuncturi referitoare la intentiile sau comportamentul nord-coreenilor , si nu cauta , nici nu depinde de succesul sau , o transformare a sistemului intern [ nord-coreean ] . & # 8221 ; dificultatea în aceasta abordare îl reprezinta faptul ca criteriul cheie dupa care se va judeca daca coreea de nord îsi va respecta angajamentele ( renuntarea la armele de distrugere în masa într-o maniera verificabila ) va cere nord-coreenilor sa renunte la atuurile lor în procesul de negociere , înca de la început .
cadrul de acorduri a încercat sa rezolve aceasta problema prin structurarea angajamentelor ca o serie de pasi reciproci , prin care sa se obtina , într-un final , transparenta în istoria nucleara a coreei de nord .
cu toate acestea , amânarile în contructia reactoarelor si eroziunea sprijinului politic al statelor unite pentru cadrul de acorduri înseamna ca importante aspecte ale acordului , cum ar fi îmbunatatirea relatiilor economice si politice dintre sua si coreea de nord , nu au fost pe deplin implementate .
politica promovata de catre william perry prevedea un proces similar , & # 8220 ; pas cu pas si reciproc & # 8221 ; , ca un mijloc de rezolvare a problemei , însa aceasta abordare nu a fost niciodata pusa total în practica .
statele unite trebuie sa abordeze criza curenta printr-o strategie care sa accepte incapacitatea de stabilire a intentiilor nord-coreene .
daca oricare din cele cinci scenarii de mai sus ar fi corect , strategia americana ar trebui sa testeze intentiile coreene , fara a compromite interesele securitatii statelor unite .
la acest moment al crizei , sua are practic patru optiuni : utilizarea fortei militare pentru a ataca infrastructura nucleara nord-coreeana , mobilizarea presiunilor internationale împotriva coreei de nord , asteptarea , si negocierea .
atacurile militare se pare ca vor fi excluse , datorita incapacitatii actuale a sua de a distruge orice arma nucleara sau stoc de plutoniu nord-coreean , a opozitiei ferme din partea aliatilor si a altor state din regiune , si datorita unor posibile represalii din partea coreei de nord , prin atacarea sudului .
politica curenta a statelor unite este de a orchestra presiuni internationale pentru a forta coreea de nord sa renunte la programul de înarmare nucleara .
aceasta abordare are putine sanse de succes , pentru ca unele state cheie , cum ar fi china si coreea de sud , nu doresc marginalizarea coreei de nord , deoarece ar duce fie la colaps economic , fie la raspunsuri militare .
a treia optiune pentru statele unite ar fi sa astepte , în speranta ca liderii de la phenian îsi vor modera cerintele , si vor accepta negocieri multilaterale , în termeni impusi de catre sua .
aceasta se pare ca este pozitia de facto a statelor unite , cel putin pe durata potentialului razboi din irak .
a patra optiune ar fi acceptarea cererilor coreei de nord pentru negocieri bilaterale cu sua , si încercarea de obtinere a unui acord care sa urmareasca interesele americane .
impasul curent nu va dura la nesfârsit .
daca nu se va ajunge la un acord , este probabil ca nord-coreeni vor reprocesa combustibilul achizitionat si vor cumpara pltunoi pentru înca patru sau sase arme nucleare .
odata reprocesarea completa ( ce va dura de la patru la sase luni ) , statele unite vor pierde optiunea unor atacuri militare asupra stocurilor de materiale coreene .
cu sucienta materie pentru obtinerea a cinci pâna la opt arme nucleare , coreea de nord va avea noi optiuni , printre care si testarea nucleara , pozitionari operationale de arme nucleare sau vânzarea de material fisionabil .
mai mult , este foarte putin probabil ca liderii nord-coreeni vor astepta pasiv ca presiunile internationale sau problemele economice interne sa duca la rasturnarea regimului lor .
în schimb , ei vor apela la actiuni de provocare pentru a agrava criza , în scopul cresterii presiunii asupra statelor unite de a negocia un acord .
politica curenta a administratiei bush are costuri semnificante .
pe lânga permisiunea acordata coreei de nord de a-si îmbunatati capacitatile nucleare , politica americana a creat tensiuni serioase în cadrul aliantelor cu coreea de sud si japonia , precum si în relatiile cu china si rusia .
refuzul negocierilor , venit din partea statelor unite , si nu a nord-coreenilor , este considerat a fi de vina pentru agravarea crizei .
daca statele unite continua în aceeasi maniera , este foarte probabil ca nord-coreeni îsi vor pozitiona armele nucleare & # 8220 ; la vedere & # 8221 ; , ceea ce va avea consecinte pentru stabilitatea regionala si pentru regimul de neproliferare nucleara .
intransigenta statelor unite va fi vinovata pentru aceasta , iar americanii vor fi pusi într-o situatie mult mai dificila .
din acest punct de vedere , este rezonabila cautarea negocierii unui acord .
indiferent de rezultatul final , negocierile vor avea imediat valoare politica .
în primul rând , statele unite ar trebui sa insiste asupra unei opriri verificabile a activitatilor nord-coreene în timpul negocierilor .
aceasta ar stopa încercarile coreei de nord de majorare a capacitatilor nucleare , si s-ar câstiga timp .
în schimb , sua îsi vor lua angajamentul de a nu ataca coreea de nord în timpul negocierilor , o concesie pe care administratia bush a oferit-o deja , fara a primi nimic în schimb .
în al doilea rând , negocierile ar detensiona într-o oarecare masura relatiile dintre sua si aliatii sai , deschizând calea catre o politica comuna vizând coreea de nord .
daca negocierile pentru un acord verificabil si acceptabil ar esua , statele unite ar câstiga mai usor sprijinul international pentru o abordare mai dura a problemei nord-coreene .
în al treilea rând , negocierile ar reduce capacitatea coreei de nord de a agrava criza , permitând statelor unite sa ia initiativa si sa-si concentreze atentia asupra armelor de distrugere în masa ale nord-coreenilor si asupra modalitatilor de obtinere a unui acord .
de asemenea , negocierile ar reduce posibilitatea unei provocari militare nord-coreene în mijlocul unui razboi în irak .
tinând cont de toate acestea , negocierile au un mare potential de atingere a obiectivului unei peninsule coreene libera de arme nucleare .
negocierea unui acord acceptabil nu va fi usoara .
faptul ca nord-coreenii au încalcat cadrul de acorduri si alte angajamente de neproliferare nucleara , înseamna ca statele unite si alte state participante la negocierea unui nou acord vor cere masuri stringente de verificare a respectarii termenilor de catre coreea de nord .
însa , în mod paradoxal , suspiciunile interne asupra intentiilor nord-coreene vor permite negociatorilor americani sa insiste pentru masuri drastice de verificare , ca o conditie necesara a unui acord , si aceasta mai ales daca va fi nevoie de sprijinul congresului pentru a finanta acest acord .
chiar daca negocierile vor esua , statele unite vor fi într-o pozitie favorabila datorita faptului ca au încercat sa trateze cu nord-coreenii .
next noua conducere de la beijing- o reală schimbare în politica chineză ? © 2003 cadran politic · rss · designed by theme junkie · powered by wordpress diocese of duluth - catholic church in northeastern minnesota centre of its core town of ashford and also serves the tenterden , romney marsh , hythe and folkestone areas .
the paper celebrated its the first issue of the kentish express ’ s forerunner , the ashford word stop at the end of your message if you do not wish to receive top marks for bicester company ’ s bus training - buckingham advertiser rejoicewith us as we continue our celebrations in honor of the canonization of st. kateri tekakwitha on october 21 , 2012 .
the diocese of duluth sent five representativesto rome for this festive occasion .
they were joined by 800 , 000 other pilgrims in rome for the canonization ofour seven new saints .
to bishop paul sirba , the bureau of catholic indian missions office , and the many contributions frommembers of the diocese of duluthand elsewhere we thank youfor this wonderful gift and assure you that you were present in our prayers as we made our pilgrimagein italy .
you were there as we received the special blessings fromthe holy father and at eachmass .
may st. kateri tekakwitha continue to walk with us as we strive to imitate her in reaching out to the young , our elders , and the sick and hold close to our hearts her devotions to jesus on the cross and to his mother .
reservations within the diocese of duluth : bois forte reservationfond du lac reservationgrand portage reservationleech lake reservationmille lacs reservation tackle avoidable blindness .
the challenge is to cross the length of the record being attempted by sir ranulph fiennes is a dangerous endeavour , but an the plan is to begin the expedition on the equinox of march 21st 2013 , temperatures .
dr mike stroud has been expeditions with sir ranulph before , and had this to say about the attempt .
" the challenge is whether it is possible to operate and be out there in the coldest place on earth at the coldest time of the year . ”
even for the boat journey to the pacific coast of antarctica sir on the icy continent this will not be enough .
new equipment is being invented fiennes was the first man to cross the entire continent of antarctica on foot , a record he set back in 1993 when he was 49 .
now sir ranulph is 68 , but his age old .
if you still are lucky enough to be able to walk around not stooped , no attention to exploring .
his list of records is far reaching and impressive , sleds fell through thin ice , and he had to pull them out using his hands .
all his fingers on his left hand were severely damaged by frostbite , and he had to abandon the attempt .
amputation of his fingertips was inevitable , but his back as possible .
sir ranulph couldn ’ t wait , and instead used a fretsaw to why he wanted to make this new record attempt , sir ranulph answered , " we do it ahead for sir ranulph and his team is a going to be an ultimate test of this was not the reason for the decision being made to attempt the winter rivalry is a good reason to head to the coldest place on earth at the coldest time of year is up for debate , but the challenge has now been set , and only time will tell if sir ranulph can accomplish the extraordinary feat he has set prof. mircea cinteză , ph.d. , a prominent cardiologist with extensive experience , is a professor of cardiology and internal medicine with the cardiology and internal medicine department of the “ carol davila ” medical and pharmacy university in bucharest ; head of the cardiology ward of the bucharest university emergency hospital ; since 1996 he has been a member of the “ carol davila ” medical and pharmacy university board of professors ; between 1997 and 2007 he was the chairman of the romanian college of physicians ; in 2004-2008 he was the dean of the “ carol davila ” medical and pharmacy university ; in 2004-2005 he was the public health minister ; in 2004-2011 he was a member of the senate of romania .
« previous „ venitul unui medic ar trebui să fie de trei ori mai mare decât venitul mediu pe economie “ interviu cu prof. univ. dr mircea cinteză next valea timocului este o zonă în care românii au continuitate încă de la ocupaţia romană interviu cu domnul tiberius puiu © 2012 cadran politic · rss · designed by theme junkie · powered by wordpressactive mutual funds better bet than etfs for china - barrons.com better to rely on a stockpicker to pinpoint opportunities right now rather than getting " exposure " via a cap-weighted etf .
“ who can watch the sad images of the last several weeks , who can see the pictures of those young faces , and honestly say that we are doing enough ? ” asked maryland governor martin o ’ malley , a democrat .
“ there are no words in the english language — or any language — to relieve the pain of parents who lose a child , ” quinn told illinois lawmakers last week .
“ we will protect our kids , and we will protect our rights .
hoosiers know we can do both , ” pence added .
“ more guns are not the answer , ” malloy told connecticut legislators .
“ freedom is not a handgun on the hip of every teacher , and security should not mean a guard posted outside every classroom . ”
malloy has appointed a task force to recommend possible solutions , and he suggested few remedies of his own until the group finishes its work .
in connecticut , the scene of the horrific newtown killings , malloy called for changes in his state and throughout the country .
the first third of his speech focused on the school massacre and its aftermath .
statement by the unfpa executive director on the occasion of the international day of the girl child on 11 october 2013 when one woman learnt she was entitled to a share of her father ’ s property , she fought for it , changing her life forever of privacy and our company will act accordingly .
see faqs 世界新聞網-北美華文新聞 、 華商資訊 - 世界播fun室 主講者 : 世界日報 舊金山總編輯 黃美惠 主題 : 蘋果太空船環評 庫市議會過關 記者周喆 ／ 庫比蒂諾報導 蘋果公司二號園區開發案環境影響評估報告 （ eir ） 15日在庫比蒂諾市議會經過六個小時會議後順利過關 。 市議會以四票贊成通過該項議案 ， 為蘋果公司二號園區動工鋪平道路 。 市議員辛克斯 （ rod sinks ） 因妻子任職蘋果而迴避 。 蘋果公司在南灣庫比蒂諾興建的新總部將成為矽谷地標 。 （ 設計模型圖 ／ 蘋果公司提供 ） 蘋果公司代表維森亨特 （ dan whisenhunt ） 表示 ， 蘋果二號園區將給庫市帶來巨大收益 。 其中包括30億元的本地商業收入 ， 2億6000萬元零售稅 、 1億1500萬元一次性收入 。 蘋果二號園區建造將創造9000個高薪工作 ， 以及8000個長期性的蘋果公司工作 。 蘋果公司代表維森亨特表示 ， 二號園區是喬布斯的遺志 。 （ 記者周喆 ／ 攝影 ） 主講者 : 世界日報 舊金山總編輯 黃美惠 主題 : 聯邦景點關閉 華埠遊人增 記者關文傑 ／ 舊金山報導 聯邦政府 「 休市 」 至今沒有重開跡象 ， 對國民帶來諸多不便 。 許多遠道而來 ， 可能一生只有一次機會來美的遊客 ， 無法進入由聯邦政府管理的名勝古蹟 。 但遊人不會因此中途而廢 ， 將時間轉到當地其他不受影響的地方遊覽 。 舊金山連日來 ， 到華埠的遊客大增 ， 逗留時間也較長 ， 一些行業已感受到營業額正在增加 。 聯邦政府管理的景點關閉 ， 遊客另尋他地觀光 ， 華埠是其中之一 。 （ 記者關文傑 ／ 攝影 ） 在華埠為遊客講解歷史的導遊張先生表示 ， 大城市的旅遊業影響不大 ， 遊客前來遇上惡魔島關閉 ， 是無可奈何的事情 ， 雖然看不到行程的景點 ， 帶著既來之則安之心態 ， 將時間花在其他地方 。 & # 160 ; 政府關門 懸崖小屋被迫停業 編譯組 因聯邦政府關閉 ， 所有位於國家公園土地的商家都被迫關閉 。 已有150年歷史 、 舊金山熱門的旅遊景點及餐館 ， 懸崖小屋上周已關閉 ， 但7日與8日堅持重新開張 。 不過 ， 被國家公園服務局聽到風聲 ， 下令餐館再度關閉 。 懸崖小屋已被勒令在8日晚餐結束後關閉 職棒季後賽 運動家隊奪分區冠軍 專訪 劉庠 談小規模球隊如何生存 小市場的奧克蘭運動家隊 , 如何能拿分區冠軍 ? 如何又能經營下去 ? 聽聽劉庠的分析 小本經營卻拿下重要成就的運動家隊確定在美聯西區封王 ， 打進季後賽 ， 再現 「 魔球 」 傳奇 。 （ 美聯社 ） & # 160 ; 你吃了黴 ？ ！ 柏克萊加大授權世界日報推出 食物發霉就應該丟掉嗎 ？ 如果把發霉的地方切掉 ， 剩下的部分還可以吃嗎 ？ 有些黴菌吃了很安全 ， 有些則對人體有害 。 製作藍乳酪所需要的黴菌是安全的 ， 然而有些食物上毛茸茸的黴菌則是有毒的 ， 一般而言 ， 生長在穀類上的黴菌是最毒的 。 發黴的橙 ( 網路圖片 ) 發黴果醬 ( 網路圖片 ) 除了肉眼可看見的菌體之外 ， 線狀的菌絲與黴菌產生的毒素可穿透食物 ， 且烹煮無法破壞黴菌毒素 ， 對於體質較弱的人特別危險 。 發黴水果 ( 網路圖片 ) 發黴麵包 ( 網路圖片 ) 發黴麵包 ( 網路圖片 ) 你的肝該減肥了嗎 ？ 【 柏克萊加大授權世界日報推出 】 你可能知道 ， 長期大量飲酒會造成肝臟受損 ， 甚至可能會造成脂肪肝 （ 醫學名詞稱為酒精性脂肪肝炎 ） 。 然而 ， 若不常喝酒 ， 甚至完全不喝酒 ， 還是可能罹患脂肪肝 。 因為非酒精性脂肪肝的盛行率急速增加 ， 最近已成為媒體的關注焦點 。 肝臟 ( 網路圖片 ) 脂肪肝 ( 網路圖片 董氏基金會 ) & # 160 ; 非酒精性脂肪肝是一連串身體功能失序所產生的疾病 ； 當肝臟處理脂肪 （ 三酸甘油酯 ） 有問題時 ， 就會發生此疾病 ， 而導致脂肪堆積在肝臟組織中 。 非酒精性脂肪肝是 「 沉默 」 的疾病 ， 很少會有跡象或症狀 ， 也不太會出現併發症 ， 但可能會隨著時間惡化 ， 造成疲勞 、 虛弱 、 食慾不振 、 噁心 、 腹痛或黃疸 （ 皮膚和眼睛發黃 ） 等症狀 。 肝臟 ( 網路圖片 ) 脂肪肝 ( 網路圖片 號角月報澳門版 ) продинфо - новости : беларусь станет основным поставщиком картофеля на рынок татарстана - продовольственный рынок беларуси беларусь станет основным поставщиком картофеля на рынок татарстана12 августа 2010татарстан рассматривает беларусь в качестве основного поставщика картофеля на свой рынок .
об этом сообщил сегодня журналистам в минске президент татарстана рустам минниханов , передает белта .
на первом этапе в татарстан из беларуси планируется поставить 40 тыс.т картофеля .
в президент татарстана особо подчеркнул , что страна заинтересована в закупке и белорусского зерна . & # 34 ; ситуация с аномальной жарой отрицательно сказалась на сельском хозяйстве татарстана , особенно на тех регионах , где развито растениеводство & # 34 ; , - рассказал он .
в связи с этим татарстан рассматривает возможность закупки в беларуси от 100 тыс.т до 500 тыс.т зерна в разной форме - фураж , комбикорма и т.д. & # 34 ; потребности в фуражном зерне у нас большие , и мы рассчитываем в этом плане на беларусь & # 34 ; , - сказал в свою очередь премьер-министр беларуси сергей сидорский заверил в том , что беларусь полностью обеспечит тот заказ , который сформирует татарстан .
это прежде всего поставки картофеля .
беларусь также выполнит договоренности по поставкам на оптовые склады татарстана автомобильной техники . & # 34 ; помимо этого мы сегодня обсудили вопросы критических товарных групп - коснулись вопросов поставок сахара , сельскохозяйственных ярмарок в татарстане .
президент этой страны уже взял на себя обязательства по содействию в проведении таких мероприятий .
по словам сергея сидорского , на осенних ярмарках беларусь будет торговать основными видами сельхозпродукции , в том числе капустой , свеклой , картофелем .
планируется также , что в татарстане будут представлены и товары легкой промышленности беларуси . & # 34 ; у них высокое качество и the two snowmobiles quickly turn to small specks on the white snowfield .
mountaineer brian mccullough is in the lead , a thick rope secures his machine to one driven by scientist stephen hasiotis .
the two men are also harnessed and roped together .
they ’ re making the first snowmobile traverse on this route to a feature called wahl glacier .
a trail from a large field camp in the central transantarctic mountains had led them more than halfway , threading through a crevasse field , and up and down rises in the valley .
now they ’ re in virgin territory , and mccullough expertly steers to a large rock outcrop the team has dubbed " the castle ” near wahl glacier .
hasiotis , a paleontologist from the university of kansas , hopes to add to an already impressive trove of finds based on previous reports of fossils in the area .
first , there ’ s the headgear — a worn , leather cowboy hat that stays as firmly on his pony-tailed head as indiana jones ’ fedora .
there ’ s also a bit of cowboy swagger in the first-generation greek-american , as well as an infectious enthusiasm for his work .
he ’ s quite eager to jump down onto his belly , arms and legs swinging , to illustrate how a burrowing critter that lived in a warmer antarctica long ago might have scurried and clawed through its underground home .
peter flaig is the team ’ s expert on those sediments .
his job is to put the trace fossils into context .
for example , if hasiotis spies what be believes are the swimming trails of a fish — where it might have settled on the sediment , leaving an imprint — flaig must determine if the sediment deposits indeed belong to a lake .
on " the castle ” outcrop , hasiotis is shouting for flaig , and a few expletives pepper his exclamations as he scrambles underneath an overhang on the castle-like outcrop near wahl glacier , which looks nearly sheer from this vantage point , a few bare rocks jutting out from the ice .
the blackened rock he displayed previously back at camp can only be one thing — fossilized charred wood .
the most well-accepted story of the period suggests that the climate shifted from wet and warm to dry and warmer at the boundary .
but those interpretations are inherently biased , based on the evidence at hand .
sedimentologists like flaig assume the triassic dried out based on the sand that filled the basin .
but so much of the evidence is covered by ice in today ’ s antarctica .
" trace fossils are like fingerprints .
they don ’ t tell you genus or species , but it can tell you horseshoe crab , ” he says .
" we ’ ve hit the jackpot on this trip between the tracks of animals we don ’ t even know about , the horseshoe crabs , and the small burrowing therapsids or reptiles . ”
nong khai map , udon thani map , sakhon nakhon map , nakon phanom map , cambodian border map cop cameras could cut back on complaints , use of force thu oct 17 , 2013 9 : 16 pm edt costumes for kids : donations go to children in need thu oct 17 , 2013 9 : 16 pm edt electricalheating & coolingremodelingsafety & securityhousehold itemsmovingplumbingpoolsreal estatereal estate lawroofingwater treatmentpest controlmortgage guideinterior designfurniture are you better off buying your home , or should you continue to rent ?
use this calculator to see how much interest you can save by refinancing your mortgage .
site map | terms of use | privacy statement | copyright & trademark notice | eeo irin | middle east | yemen an " oathkeeper " demonstrates in washington , d.c. most are under a loose coalition of " tea party express " activists .
photographer : dermot tatlow / laif / redux .
a battle for control of the republican party has erupted as an emboldened tea party moved to oust ...
guinea ’ s government has retained the services of sheila khama , who heads the extractive ( ... )
former mayor of cantoria pedro llamas was jailed for two years in a case related to the homes .
maura has been very critical of the way in which planning infractions are managed .
the psoe has bemoaned ‘ the lack of respect for the dead , to the extent of removing human remains from graves and putting them in bags . in addition , said mellado , ‘ the pp has given orders to build toilets on top of the tomb in which allegedly the first countess of la algaida and first marquesa del almanzora , catalina navarro casanova has lain for 100 years .
“ these are despicable claims , we ’ re talking about a very sensitive issue for citizens and you can not say in any case that we do not respect the living nor the dead .
according to reports , work has been carried out by a specialised company in the afternoon and in the presence of family members .
“ nobody has complained , on the contrary , they are all happy now the deceased can rest in the conditions that they deserve . ”
with reference to the tomb of the marquesa de almanzora , the mayor said : “ she is well aware that the remains of the marquesa are not there .
she knows that the family moved them to cuevas del almanzora many years ago . ”
although it was announced that primark was to open the new store in roquetas de mar during october the opening date now looks set for november 28 .
the retail giant specialises in low cost clothing and accessories and continues to go from strength to strength in spain .
georgia 's inability to overcome a bevy of injuries likely ended its hopes for a bcs title , but it still remains in contention for the sec crown . ( 10 / 15 / 2013 4 : 23 : 55 pm ) georgia defensive end ray drew is ' fishing ' for more sec quarterbacks as he leads the bulldogs in sacks . ( 10 / 16 / 2013 7 : 56 : 54 pm ) epublished by pressmart [ digital magazine publishing ] the top 1000 advisors - barrons.com eccb takeover of anguilla banks could end up in court april 11 , 2013 the valley , anguilla -- anguilla is one of the friendliest places in the caribbean and exploring its nooks and crannies can be great fun on your own .
but it ’ s even more rewarding when you ’ re sharing your discoveries and enjoying the island ’ s dining spots .
golf : andrew cruickshank birdied the 17th on his way to winning the monthly medal at knole park on sunday.the four handicapper shot a net 71 ...
" the money is faster than the paperwork , " claims philpott .
" it shows a lot of faith in our relationship and our clients . "
barclays , citigroup , rbs fx messages said to be examined fri oct 18 , 2013 06 : 00 am edt eu races for bank-failure deal deadline to avert quagmire fri oct 18 , 2013 05 : 40 am edt wal-mart staffer kristopher oswald says he was sacked for trying to save woman in parking lot assault fri oct 18 , 2013 05 : 20 am edt london zoo tiger cub drowns thu oct 17 , 2013 09 : 00 am edt obama ’ s winning strategy will be retested soon fri oct 18 , 2013 12 : 00 am edt jeh johnson said to be obama ’ s choice to lead homeland security thu oct 17 , 2013 11 : 50 pm edt one of syria ’ s top commanders killed during fighting thu oct 17 , 2013 8 : 10 pm edt photos of ivy-choked car on china street go viral fri oct 18 , 2013 06 : 40 am edt sex on plane to las vegas : pair plead guilty fri oct 18 , 2013 06 : 00 am edt ’ sharp fall ’ in uk petrol price fri oct 18 , 2013 06 : 00 am edt immigration back on the front burner for obama fri oct 18 , 2013 06 : 10 am edt nsa spy chief to step down fri oct 18 , 2013 06 : 00 am edt ukatili wa kijinsia : mume amkata mkewe mkono kisa : wivu wa mapenzi tusikubali ' wauza unga ' kuichafua tanzania ughaibuni taarifa kwamba kuna watanzania 175 wanaoshikiliwa katika magereza tofauti nchini china baada ya kukutwa na makosa mbalimbali yakiwamo ya kujihusisha na biashara ya dawa za kulevya si nzuri kwa taifa letu habari kamili kumbukumbu ya baba wa taifa : je , viongozi wetu wanamuenzi kwa vitendo ?
mtazamo yakinifu : joseph rwegasira , tanganyika na zanzibar za wakati ule sio hizi !
maisha ndivyo yalivyo : nimezaa naye , nikamfungulia duka , lakini hataki tuishi wote ... nifanyaje ?
dada mkubwa wa marehemu , anthery mushi aliyekuwa mfanyakazi wa umoja wa mataifa akiuaga mwili wa mdogo kwenye chumba cha kuhifadhia maiti cha hospitali ya taifa muhimbili jijini dar es salaam jana . bunge la katiba laiva maandalizi ya bunge maalumu la katiba yanazidi kupamba moto na sasa mafunzo kwa wabunge yameanza kutolewa jinsi ya kuichambua rasimu ya katiba ya jamhuri ya muungano wa tanzania ya mwaka 2013 katika bunge hilo linalotarajiwa kuanza mwezi ujao habari kamili ' marufuku kununua cocoa mbichi kyela ' mkuu wa wilaya ya kyela , magreth malenga , amepiga marufuku ununuzi wa cocoa mbichi wilayani kyela ili kulinda ubora wa cocoa ya tanzania kwenye soko la dunia habari kamili yanga : tutaipiga simba 3-0 j 'pili mabingwa wa tanzania bara , yanga wamesema wamejipanga kuhakikisha wanaibuka na ushindi wa 3-0 dhidi ya watani wao wa jadi , simba katika mchezo wa ligi kuu ya vodacom tanzania bara utakaopigwa keshokutwa kwenye uwanja wa taifa jijini dar es salaam habari kamili nyerere anaenziwa kwa maneno : mnafiki ni mtu mwongo mwenye matendo kinyume na maneno yake .
mengi yamesemwa kuhusu mwalimu julius kambarage nyerere na hata uhuru wa vyombo vya habari usichezewe kama golori : kwa mshtuko na masikitiko makubwa wikimbili zilizopita tulipokea taarifa za kufungiwa kwa magazeti mawili ya kila siku hapa ndejembi : tumeipa kisogo misingi aliyotuachia nyerere : juzi watanzania waliadhimisha miaka 14 tangu baba wa taifa , mwalimu julius nyerere alipotutoka.yapo mengi ya kukumbuka ikiwamo gharama tiba ya saratani tanzania moto wa kuotea mbali : saratani imewekwa katika kundi la magonjwa ya hatari kwa uhai wa watu yanayoundwa na mkusanyiko wa magonjwa 100 duniani , nyerere na harakati za kupinga dhulma : baba wa taifa la jamhuri ya muungano wa tanzania , hayati mwalimu julius kambarage nyerere alifariki dunia tarehe kama ya nyerere : kwa nini alikuwa tofauti na kizazi kipya : kuna wakati niliandika kuwa kuna watu wanaoendelea kudai kuwa wanaenzi fikra na mawazo ya marehemu mwalimu julius kambarage mchakato kumtangaza nyerere ' mwenye heri ' ni heshima kwa tanzania : mwalimu julius kambarage nyerere aliyezaliwa mwaka 1922 na kufariki tarehe 14 oktoba , 1999 akiwa na umri wa miaka 77 , anatambuliwa kumbukumbu ya nyerere : hakuna kama yeye , sera zake zahitajika : miaka 14 baada ya kifo cha baba wa taifa mwalimu julius nyerere , wengi wanaamini kuwa taifa na afrika halijapata kuwa na pata kibonzo chako kila siku toka kwa kabwela , the flexibles na dogo luninga na redio polonia – un model de eficienţă şi pragmatism în diplomaţia europeană nu trebuie să fii un foarte subtil analist de politică externă pentru a observa că statutul şi vizibilitatea poloniei pe scena politică europeană s-au modificat substanţial în ultimii ani , după venirea la putere , în anul 2007 , a tandemului liberal tusk-sikorski .
în mod cert , fenomenul se datorează deopotrivă consensului politic intern , dar şi unor eforturi diplomatice susţinute .
răspunsul domnului jose manel barroso la scrisoarea preşedintelui emil constantinescu vă mulţumim pentru scrisoarea dumneavoastră pe care am primit-o în data de 27 iulie 2012 , în care prezentaţi opinia dumneavoastră cu privire la reacţia comisiei europene la evoluţia situaţiei politice şi instituţionale din această vară în românia .
permiteţi-mi să clarific faptul că acţiunile comisiei ca răspuns la aceste evoluţii sunt ...
summit-ul nato – un prohod şi o renaştere mereu amânate reuniunea anuală a membrilor alianţei nord-atlantice este programată a avea loc în perioada 20-21 mai 2012 , ţara-gazdă fiind de această dată statele unite ale americii .
o reuniune aniversară am putea spune , summit-ul nato ajungând în acest an la ediţia cu numărul 25 ( un număr oficial primesc doar întâlnirile considerate tradiţionale , nu şi cele excepţionale ) .
problemele economice profunde şi de solvabilitate în grecia , spania , portugalia şi irlanda constituie un risc grav pentru sistemul bancar european .
datoriile suverane ale acestor ţări sunt de aproximativ 2 trilioane de euro şi cea mai mare parte a acestor datorii sunt deţinute de bănci europene .
cristofobia & # 8211 ; toleranţa este pentru toată lumea , mai puţin pentru intoleranţi islamofobia păleşte în comparaţie cu cristofobia prezentă în majoritatea societăţilor musulmane .
auzim des musulmani plângându-se că sunt victime ale abuzului în occident , dar se vorbeşte puţin despre felul în care sunt tratate minorităţile religioase în lumea islamică , despre modul în care creştinii sunt ucişi din cauza religiei lor .
este un genocid în creştere care ar trebui ...
după luni de negocieri cu fostul secretar general al onu , kofi annan , şi deliberări extinse în consiliul de securitate al onu ostilităţile din siria continuă .
deşi violenţa generală a scăzut uşor , iar consiliul de observatori onu a crescut la 300 , regimul dictatorial al lui bashar al-assad ignoră cererea de „ încetare a focului ” .
afganistanul a fost tema principală a summit-ului nato de la chicago .
nu întâmplător !
după mai bine de zece ani de război , pierderi umane şi costuri materiale importante , alianţa nord-atlantică încearcă să pună punct unui conflict extrem de nepopular acasă .
fie că e vorba de ţări europene , din zona pacificului sau chiar de statele unite .
dar retragerea trupelor şi a materialului de ...
în ultima perioadă , întreaga europă pare a fi scandalizată de situaţia fostului premier al ucrainei , iulia timoşenko .
ucraina , căreia i se prevestea un luminos viitor european , a ajuns astăzi să fie comparată cu dictatura lui lucaşenko din belarus .
rusia : modernizare şi reformă – de la stolâpin la medvedev într-o moscovă aparent încremenită , la propriu şi la figurat , vladimir putin a părăsit biroul de la casa albă şi s-a îndreptat spre kremlin , unde îl aştepta dmitri medvedev pentru a-i preda funcţia încredinţată în urmă cu patru ani .
conform desfăşurătorului ceremoniei , drumul între cele două locaţii a durat 7 minute . © 2013 cadran politic · rss · designed by theme junkie · powered by wordpress weather maps - fox16.com little rock , ar severesevere weather alerts dayssevere weather guideweather alertsweatherbuglive camsinteractive radarweather alertsschool closingsreceive closing alertstell us about closingshour by hourweather mapsgreen housetips archivegood earth giveawayblogforecast talks between orca exploration and the tanzanian government to double the amount of gas produced on songo songo are dragging on . ( ... )
the government in dar es salaam is investigating the affairs of around 200 tanzanians suspected of dissimulating some $ 196 million in swiss banks . ( ... )
the chama cha mapinduzi ( ccm , ruling party ) mp for the nzega constituency in the ( ... ) , natural family planning outreachworld organization of the billings ovulation methodbillings ovulation method association - usafamily of the americasthe record : : : the salt lake times fully functional new air condition unit .
the outside ribbing is made of can be moved in an instance by helicopter or truck & they can have any additions one wants. and strong we can incorporate any fittings and fixtures you want rush limbaugh : why would the gop want to make obamacare better ?
defeatist beltway gop cannot see the long-term benefits of an honorable fight how rush limbaugh shaped the gop 's shutdown woes rush limbaugh backs ted cruz against gop best go via taxi or you can take a bus from mor chit bts to chaengwattana road .
it 's easy and cheap although the number 52.bus 52 from victory or the bus 166 over the expressway , as soon as it leaves the expressway get off and get a motorcyle taxi .
the office is near the mfa and before the prachacheun turning , coming from vibhavadi rangsit .
the ministry of foreign affairs is nearby mrsa lurks in community , infects people every day fri oct 18 , 2013 02 : 10 am edt flu season off to early start , vaccinations encouraged thu oct 17 , 2013 8 : 10 pm edt state disconnecting motorist aid call boxes thu oct 17 , 2013 8 : 10 pm edt congressman bill young gravely ill thu oct 17 , 2013 4 : 10 pm edt classic casserole to the rescue wed aug 7 , 2013 2 : 10 pm edt at the doctor ’ s office , eye contact indicates caring wed oct 16 , 2013 02 : 10 am edt o ’ neill : dockery says gop needs to regain ’ common sense ’ tue oct 15 , 2013 6 : 10 pm edt police : man in video not a witness or suspect in plant shooting thu oct 17 , 2013 2 : 10 pm edt kiwanis to cook 12,000 chicken dinners in annual fundraiser thu oct 17 , 2013 12 : 10 pm edt buc vincent jackson promotes reading at elementaries thu oct 17 , 2013 12 : 10 pm edt obama lashes republicans as government reopens fri oct 18 , 2013 01 : 19 am edt concord mom pleads guilty to torturing son , is sentenced to up to 30 years fri oct 18 , 2013 01 : 19 am edt woman accused of shoplifting fri oct 18 , 2013 03 : 19 am edt man dies of injuries from atv rollover fri oct 18 , 2013 03 : 19 am edt stepbrother : assault suspect is vet with ptsd fri oct 18 , 2013 03 : 19 am edt the law of the land : city may limit how tall grass can be fri oct 18 , 2013 03 : 19 am edt pea concert series welcomes new york polyphony fri oct 18 , 2013 03 : 19 am edt stratham official honored fri oct 18 , 2013 03 : 19 am edt panel to discuss ’ faith response to climate change ’ fri oct 18 , 2013 03 : 19 am edt after years at town hall , ruest named to top job fri oct 18 , 2013 03 : 19 am edt lincoln akerman students create a ’ mean free zone ’ fri oct 18 , 2013 03 : 19 am edt legislator : repeal ban on dyeing chicks fri oct 18 , 2013 03 : 19 am edt parents outraged by school ’ s handling of gun threat fri oct 18 , 2013 03 : 19 am edt nhiaa roundup derryfield field hockey ends 14-0 fri oct 18 , 2013 01 : 19 am edt dave d ’ onofrio ’ s sox beat legacies for a lifetime built or destroyed in october fri oct 18 , 2013 01 : 19 am edt red sox hold off tigers , move within one win of world series fri oct 18 , 2013 01 : 19 am edt cdc back at work to track the flu fri oct 18 , 2013 03 : 19 am edt red sox 1 win from world series fri oct 18 , 2013 01 : 19 am edt keene pumpkin festival set for saturday fri oct 18 , 2013 01 : 19 am edt this has not been the case over the past few years , and statistics indicate an alarming number of bankruptcies filed by smes – around 100,000 smes have been wound up in romania in the past few years .
improving the law on insolvency and the restructuring / winding up procedures , together with the justice ministry and the ministry for public finances , so as to build a more dynamic business environment ; drawing up and implementing the “ sme test ” – the impact on smes .
« previoususl va lansa un program de microindustrializare interviu cu domnul deputat constantin niţă , vicepreşedinte psd şi preşedintele psd judeţul braşov next „ venitul unui medic ar trebui să fie de trei ori mai mare decât venitul mediu pe economie “ interviu cu prof. univ. dr mircea cinteză © 2012 cadran politic · rss · designed by theme junkie · powered by wordpress diocese of duluth - catholic church in northeastern minnesota more tatar-bashkir newslatest from azatliq.org татар конгрессы эшчәнлеген " глобаль татарстан " алыштырырмы ?
русия хөкүмәте ерак көнчыгышка азык-төлек җибәрә бирюлевода кулга алынганнар декабрьгә кадәр сак астында калачак хокук яклаучылар русиядә хакимиятне контрольдә тоту канунын әзерләде согуд гарәбстаны бмо иминлек шурасындагы урыныннан баш тартты radio azatliq ( in tatar and bashkir ) features & commentary unemployment set to get worse in usa and as the fed keeps on prionting money to save institutions the banks keep on doing the same thing .
gm has announced it will get rid of 2 ( out of 7 jets ) of its corporate jets after arriving in washington to ask for bail out monies yet have no concern to trim costs nor had a plan of how they will trim costs .
gm pays more money in corporate sponsorship than ford or chysler who also asked for a handout but they too had no game plan to trim costs as well as execs salaries ..
[ usa states budget deficit 2010 & 2011 ] [ unemployment usa & thailand 2009 ] [ crises blame -guess who ? ]
[ trump casinos in chap 11 bankrupcy ] [ read george soros crises report ] [ madoff ponzi fraud crises ] [ thailand in crises ] [ us economy worsens ] [ asia crises better than us ] [ depression safeguards ] [ thailand finance news ] [ amex bailout wrong ] [ banks bailout : blame who ] [ blame cr act or who ? ]
[ aig abuse bailout funds ] [ gm & bankruptcy better ] [ usa bailout will not work ] [ pension funds ] [ hedge funds 2008 ] [ investing fund guidelines ] why you [ do not invest in finance companies ] [ buy gold not shares in finance companies ] [ thai property speculation & sub prime crises ] txdot outs worst toll dodgers thu oct 17 , 2013 10 : 27 pm edt let legislature not voters pick u.s. senators ?
wed oct 16 , 2013 6 : 27 pm edt cheerio and shalom : rick and anita off to london and israel tue oct 15 , 2013 2 : 27 pm edt dewhurst calls for obama impeachment tue oct 15 , 2013 08 : 27 am edt georgetown to consider citywide spraying for mosquitos tue sep 25 , 2012 4 : 27 pm edt premier : u.s. may not act sat sep 15 , 2012 12 : 27 am edt new brushy creek pedestrian bridge now open mon sep 10 , 2012 6 : 27 pm edt boxer ’ s new capital to go toward android app thu oct 17 , 2013 4 : 27 pm edt dell ’ s final shareholder meeting ’ short and sweet ’ thu oct 17 , 2013 2 : 27 pm edt apd : man posed as neighbors on craigslist sex ads thu oct 17 , 2013 10 : 27 pm edt leno goes for a spin at cota thu oct 17 , 2013 10 : 27 pm edt man fired gun in ’ road rage ’ incident thu oct 17 , 2013 6 : 27 pm edt officer ’ s death ruled in line of duty thu oct 17 , 2013 6 : 27 pm edt friend of recio testifies in yazdi trial thu oct 17 , 2013 4 : 27 pm edt wreck shuts down rr 12 in hays county thu oct 17 , 2013 4 : 27 pm edt the big pictureexclusive market analysis to help you know when to be invested in stocks and when to be safely in cash .
updated daily , so check it out each day .
go now > > sepanyol , england dan russia layak ke pusingan akhir piala dunia di brazil tahun depan selepas memenangi perlawanan kelayakan dalam kumpulan masing-masing , awal pagi ini . ( 10 / 16 / 2013 3 : 32 : 50 am ) depuis le deuxième assassinat politique en moins de 6 mois , les laïcs manifestent contre ennahda et demande la dissolution de l 'assemblée constituante .
un islamiste présumé a été tué , cinq autres arrêtées au cours d 'une opération de police dimanche matin dans une maison dans la banlieue de tunis .
les opérations de démantèlement de groupes terroristes se multiplient depuis le second assassinat politique dans le pays et la mort de soldats à la frontière les habitants de ouardia , banlieue au sud de la capitale ont été réveillés par des tirs à 5h30 par une opération commando visant une maison qui abritait cinq suspects ont été arrêtés , un homme a été tué et un autre blessé au cours moins d 'une semaine après une ambuscade au mont chaambi où 8 soldats tunisiens ont été retrouvés fusillés et égorgés , les autorités tunisiennes ont depuis promis une plus grande fermeté dans la lutte anti-terroriste .
a chaambi , frontière tuniso-algérienne , l 'armée a eu recours à des dix jihadistes auraient été tués , chiffres non encore confirmés par le on a appris dans la soirée dimanche qu 'un soldat tunisien a été tué , sept autres blessés par l 'explosion d 'une mine près de la frontière algérienne , où ces derniers jours , le pays a été secoué par plusieurs alertes terroristes : - un colis suspect et une menace de mort ont été retrouvés devant la maison samedi à l 'appel d 'ennahda , majoritaire au sein de la coaltion gouvernementa le , plusieurs dizaines de milliers de personnes ont manifesté à tunis . - un homme a tiré sur une patrouille de police dans l 'est du pays .
dans les centres commerciaux , lieux publics et ambassades , la vigilance est accrue et l 'insécurité dans le pays ne cesse d 'accroitre les passions chez les si l 'identité des hommes tués au mont chaambi n 'a pas encore été révélée , le premier ministre , ali laarayedh a révélé placer la lutte anti-terroriste au-dessus " rendez les armes , rendez vous à la police et la société et la justice le prendra en considération " , a déclaré le premier ministre ali larayedh , cité par ce crime attribué à la mouvance jihadiste , et dont l 'exécutant et le commanditaire n 'ont pas été arrêtés , avait entraîné la chute du premier depuis l 'assassinat de l 'opposant politique mohamed brahmi le 25 juillet dernier , la tunisie est de nouveau ébranlée sur le plan sécuritaire , politique cela fait maintenant 10 jours que des manifestations géantes se tiennent quotidiennement devant le parlement pour demander la dissolution du gouvernement .
dimanche soir une manifestation de femmes étaient prévues à tunis .
elles devaient s 'habiller en blanc et rouge en signe de condamnation du can you tell us a few things about the history of the romanians who live in timoc valley ?
what was the soviet influence on this part of the balkans , and how did it affect the romanians in timoc ?
was there any collaboration between yugoslavia ’ s and romania ’ s secret services ?
« previousvalea timocului este o zonă în care românii au continuitate încă de la ocupaţia romană interviu cu domnul tiberius puiu next un adevărat român & # 8211 ; interviu cu asr prinţul paul al româniei © 2012 cadran politic · rss · designed by theme junkie · powered by wordpressnike ceo sells on heels of record high - barrons.com canada beats us in exhibitionespnsecond pre-sochi win for canadaottawa citizensee all 9 sourcesrelated hayley wickenheiser ut dermpath earns accreditation thu oct 17 , 2013 3 : 26 pm edt rumors quashed about earnestine & hazel ’ s ’ uncertain future ’ thu oct 17 , 2013 9 : 26 pm edt rumors squashed about earnestine & hazel ’ s ’ uncertain future ’ thu oct 17 , 2013 7 : 26 pm edt man expected to plead guilty to selling fake goods fri oct 18 , 2013 04 : 17 am edt man expected to plead guilty in marijuana case fri oct 18 , 2013 04 : 17 am edt target of bp settlement probe lashes out at freeh thu oct 17 , 2013 6 : 17 pm edt gov. haslam sets up own judicial nominating panel thu oct 17 , 2013 5 : 27 pm edt problems continue for obamacare enrollment fri oct 4 , 2013 9 : 26 pm edt memphis man convicted of raping woman in wheelchair fri oct 4 , 2013 7 : 26 pm edt haslam pledges to increase tenn .
teacher salaries thu oct 3 , 2013 11 : 26 pm edt mom charged with theft in connection to fundraiser wed oct 2 , 2013 3 : 26 pm edt продинфо - новости : закупочные цены на молоко в беларуси повышаются на 10 % - продовольственный рынок беларуси главная » новости беларуси » закупочные цены на молоко в беларуси ...
закупочные цены на молоко в беларуси повышаются на 10 % 11 августа 2010закупочные цены на молоко в республике беларусь повысятся в среднем на 10 % .
такое решение содержится в постановлении совета министров республики беларусь от 9 августа 2010 г . № 1177 .
на основании документа внесены соответствующие изменения в постановление совета министров республики беларусь от 5 июня 2008 г . № 812 " о закупочных ценах на продукцию животноводства , реализуемую для республиканских государственных нужд " , сообщает pravo.by со ссылкой на белта .
закупочная цена на молоко сорта " экстра " возрастет c br1000 до br1100 за 1 кг , молоко высшего сорта - с br865 до br950 , на молоко первого сорта - с br795 до br875 .
как сообщили в министерстве сельского хозяйства и продовольствия республики беларусь , принятие постановления позволит повысить рентабельность производства молока до 15 % , получить сельскохозяйственным организациям в августе-декабре 2010 года около br200 млрд. дополнительной выручки и направить ее на закупку минеральных удобрений , горючесмазочных материалов , а также повышение заработной осуществляться поэтапным повышением отпускных цен в рамках прогнозных параметров инфляции , что наряду с экспортной выручкой обеспечит прибыльную работу молочной отрасли на уровне 2-3 % " , - подчеркнули в в июне нынешнего года оставались стабильными , а с середины июля стали расти цены на молочную продукцию , поставляемую на экспорт .
только за последнюю неделю июля экспортные цены на основные позиции молочной продукции увеличились в среднем на $ 200 за тонну .
в результате цены внешнего рынка , несмотря на повышение закупочных цен на молоко в марте и июне 2010 года по 10 % , позволяют перерабатывающим организациям по ряду позиций получать значительную прибыль .
так , рентабельность сыров и сухого цельного молока превысила 20 % , казеина - 35 % , сухого обезжиренного молока составляет около 70 % .
отпускные цены на социально значимую цельномолочную продукцию , реализуемую в республике , с повышением их в апреле и мае 2010 года по 2 % и в июле - на 3 % , вместе с тем с повышением цен на материальные ресурсы , используемые для производства по оперативным данным , за январь-июнь 2010 года молокоперерабатывающей отраслью получено br383,8 млрд. прибыли от реализации и br246 млрд. чистой прибыли .
уровень рентабельности реализованной молочной отсутствие сезонного снижения цен внешнего рынка на молочную продукцию и был внесен на утверждение проект постановления совета министров республики беларусь об увеличении закупочных цен на молоко на 10 % " , - grasshopper could leap to nm in december thu oct 17 , 2013 09 : 20 am edt mcconnell : further shutdowns ’ off the table ’ thu oct 17 , 2013 7 : 20 pm edt miss. executes former butcher who dismembered man thu jun 21 , 2012 12 : 17 am edt ap news alert thu jun 21 , 2012 12 : 17 am edt bond now $ 1m for female suspect in stripper case thu jun 21 , 2012 12 : 17 am edt toyota recalls 803k us vehicles for air bag defect fri oct 18 , 2013 04 : 17 am edt south mississippians talk about the end of federal furloughs thu oct 17 , 2013 10 : 17 pm edt st. gabriel ’ s festival wed oct 16 , 2013 6 : 17 pm edt schools partake in drill wed oct 16 , 2013 6 : 17 pm edt bolivar mother sues drmc tue oct 15 , 2013 10 : 17 pm edt mosquito abatement fee on hold in greenville thu oct 17 , 2013 4 : 17 pm edt itta bena bust thu oct 17 , 2013 4 : 17 pm edt mcdaniel tosses hat into us senate race fri oct 18 , 2013 02 : 17 am edt mississippi gop lawmakers split on vote for shutdown deal fri oct 18 , 2013 02 : 17 am edt mcdaniel targeting cochran in senate bid fri oct 18 , 2013 02 : 17 am edt 137,800 in state in health insurance ’ coverage gap ’ fri oct 18 , 2013 02 : 17 am edt having a ball at topsoccer fri oct 18 , 2013 02 : 17 am edt pike gop fundraiser set for thursday wed aug 28 , 2013 4 : 17 pm edt officials mum on chief tue aug 27 , 2013 4 : 17 pm edt motorcyclist killed in collision with car fri oct 18 , 2013 06 : 17 am edt holiday job search : how to pitch at parties ... without being pushy job interview ? 3 tips guaranteed to give you the edge !
job search stress ? 4 key ways to manage your angst do you possess the 3 traits of a successful job seeker ?
speakiing yesterday in dar es salaam kevele said : & ldquo ; getting treatment in india is reasonably affordable but what makes it expensive is accommodation and transport , & rdquo ; he explained .
referendum drive on wildlife feeding ban falters thu oct 17 , 2013 8 : 07 pm edt deliberations end for day in temple killings trial thu oct 17 , 2013 10 : 07 pm edt man arrested in damage to medical helicopter thu oct 17 , 2013 6 : 07 pm edt hiker hit by tree , dies near sedona thu oct 17 , 2013 10 : 07 pm edt students arrested for pot at az school thu oct 17 , 2013 10 : 07 pm edt nat ’ l park employees back at work in az thu oct 17 , 2013 8 : 07 pm edt pcso : man wanted for sex crimes thu oct 17 , 2013 6 : 07 pm edt man arrested for damage to helicopter thu oct 17 , 2013 6 : 07 pm edt prescott pd : man hit boy with trash can thu oct 17 , 2013 4 : 07 pm edt leaky lake to cost sahuarita at least $ 227k fri oct 18 , 2013 04 : 07 am edt sabino canyon reopens fri oct 18 , 2013 04 : 07 am edt oro valley man drowns at residential swimming pool fri oct 18 , 2013 02 : 07 am edt firefighters responding to house fire on tucson ’ s southside thu oct 17 , 2013 12 : 07 pm edt getting the word out about the affordable care act fri oct 18 , 2013 02 : 07 am edt only on kold : who ’ s tracking you ?
fri oct 18 , 2013 02 : 07 am edt fine issued for loud barking fri oct 18 , 2013 02 : 07 am edt hssa to waive cat , dog adoption fees this weekend thu oct 17 , 2013 10 : 07 pm edt immigration protest at ron barber ’ s office fri oct 18 , 2013 12 : 07 am edt hiker killed by falling tree fri oct 18 , 2013 12 : 07 am edt epublished by pressmart [ digital magazine publishing ] korea , south news headlines 5 / .
giving money to beggers you may regret it if you open your wallet and they see whats inside .
again a king thai lady made this listake on the rangit overhead walkway one day and she lost her life .
11 / .
even good talking foreigners can scam .
watch the backpacker sometimes on the overbridge to panthip plaza whose down and out and lost his passport wanting money or just got ripped off by the girlfriend and wants to borrow some baht off you ? 14 / .
if you find your ccs are used do not use again but report stolen ? you may get a bill but if you haven 't used it then the company may waiver it .
15 / .
never buy property unless you see it eg. condos finished ? ? some foreigners ply on unsuspecting foreigners .
as at 2013 the touts are not around the doors anymore at the airport and its a lot harder to be approached by touts but all the same watch ones who loiter around escalators or the main doors offering you cheap taxi rides etc .
always use the meter taxi outside the bottom ground floor with a chit or bell bus service to pattaya or the train to bangkok . ]
[ chiangmai boiler scam ] [ airport scams & thefts ] [ suvarnabumi airport ] that is why carbon dioxide is called a " greenhouse gas . "
of course , too much of the greenhouse gases can cause too much heating of the atmosphere : " global warming . "
if you find our content useful you can help us out by recommending the site to your friends and / or by liking our page on facebook .
speaking to journalists in dar es salaam yesterday pac chairman zitto kabwe stressed on transparency in the use of tax payers ’ money disbursed to the political parties . & ldquo ; some political parties have pointed an accusing finger at me concerning the matter & hellip ; this is not my decision , rather it is the committee ’ s decision & hellip ; we are doing our work as guided by the law and not otherwise , & rdquo ; he clarified .
kabwe faulted some government officials who fear to hold accountable people who break the law , insisting that he was not ready to see such breach of the law continue .
kabwe said ccm and chadema were supposed to be models for the emerging smaller parties in the country , but instead they have big problems .
meanwhile chadema has accused the pac and cag of failing to follow proper procedure in addressing the matter .
speaking to journalists yesterday in dar es salaam , chadema board of trustee secretary antony komu said chadema ’ s accounts are audited up to 2010 / 2011 .
komu pointed out that the only accounts which have yet to be audited are those of 2011 / 2012 , but blamed the cag ’ s office for failing to assign auditors to conduct the job .
he said that instead of blaming the parties , the pac should direct the blame at the cag and registrar of political parties .
ignore the battle to block the uninsured from the health exchanges , and look instead to medicaid managers , who are about to sign up millions of new customers .
one of the most striking patterns about these months leading up to a market top is that the riskiest stocks far outperform the most conservative ones .
wedding attirebudgetslegal affairsengagementetiquetteevent planninghoneymooninvitationskinds of weddingsother eventsphotographerreceptionsprofessionalsshowers & partiesthe ceremonygifts & flowers radnor lake 's new aviary education center is ' win-win ' for community , state thu oct 17 , 2013 11 : 26 pm edt charter schools aim to avert closure sun oct 13 , 2013 5 : 26 pm edt metro ’ s middle schools are now called middle ’ preps ’ sat oct 12 , 2013 03 : 26 am edt new leadership guides una football program in new direction thu oct 17 , 2013 7 : 26 pm edt tn supreme court denies challenge to state ’ s voter id law thu oct 17 , 2013 7 : 26 pm edt trevecca set to build residential neighborhood thu oct 17 , 2013 11 : 26 pm edt attorney for fired arundel spokeswoman seeks $ 175k tue oct 15 , 2013 2 : 15 pm edt business district in catonsville community welcomes revitalization mon aug 12 , 2013 10 : 15 am edt pikesville grad primed for u.s. amateur golf championship mon aug 12 , 2013 10 : 15 am edt hampstead woman charged in death of her 4-year-old daughter fri sep 6 , 2013 6 : 15 pm edt tic gums expands in harford county mon oct 14 , 2013 8 : 15 pm edt maryland ’ stumbled out of the gate ’ with health exchanges , brown says wed oct 16 , 2013 10 : 15 pm edt les forces de sécurité ont tué par balles au moins 70 partisans du président déchu mohamed morsi , tôt samedi , affirme la confrérie des frères musulmans .
son porte-parole , gehad el-haddad , a déclaré que la police avait ouvert le feu peu avant la prière matinale , non loin de la mosquée de rabba al-adawiya , où les partisans de mohamed morsi organisaient un sit-in permanent depuis la reprise en main du pays par l 'armée il y a plus de trois semaine .
" ils ne tirent pas pour blesser mais pour tuer " , soutient-il .
la télévision qatarie , al-jazeera , donne un bilan de 120 morts et d 'environ 4 les partisans et opposants de morsi , incarcéré depuis le coup d 'etat , avaient le chef d 'état-major , le général abdel fattah al-sisi , qui a joué un rôle déterminant dans le coup qui a chassé du pouvoir mohamed morsi , devenu très impopulaire , avait lancé un appel aux egyptiens à descendre dans la rue afin de lui donner un mandat " pour lutter contre les violences et le terrorisme . "
le ministre de la défense et vice-premier ministre dans le nouveau gouvernement a été entendu puisque plusieurs centaines de milliers d 'egyptiens vendredi le ministre de l 'intérieur , mohamed ibrahim , avait déclaré qu 'il serait bientôt mis fin légalement au sit-in des pro-morsi autour de la mosquée les occidentaux sont de plus en plus inquiets par la tournure des événements jeudi il a été annoncé que morsi devra répondre de charges de complot avec un groupe étranger , en l 'occurence le hamas , qui aurait participé à l 'attaque d 'une prison où il était incarcéré au début du soulèvement populaire contre le plusieurs détenus et gardiens avaient été tués et des soldats enlevés .
we use grapeshot as a contextual targeting technology , allowing us to create custom groups of stories outside out of our usual site navigation .
grapeshot stores the categories of story you have been exposed to .
their privacy policy and opt out option can be accessed here.tehnologie | cadran politic agenția pentru cercetare avansată în domeniul apărării ( darpa ) a încheiat recent un acord cu departamentul apărării din australia în privinţa instalării pe teritoriul australian a unui telescop radar destinat supravegherii spaţiale , se precizează într-un comunicat al agenţiei americane .
space surveillance telescope ( sst ) va fi dotat cu un sistem de trei lentile mersenne-schmidt ( care ...
google , apple şi microsoft se luptă pentru supremaţie .
în vreme ce android a cucerit o puternică bază mobilă , microsoft şi apple , sisteme „ închise ” , mizează pe universul produselor conexe şi a variantelor desktop .
luna martie a fost foarte încărcată în lumea internetului aducându-ne lansările celor mai performante browsere oferite de giganţii din industrie : microsoft , google şi mozilla .
microsoft a cheltuit milioane de dolari sprijinind diverși politicieni in anii precedenți și se pare că intenționeză să recupereze măcar o parte din acești bani înapoi prin vânzarea unui nou pachet de servicii si unelte software destinate campaniilor politice și grupurilor de activiști .
această nouă ofertă poartă denumirea ” campaingready ” si are la bază o platformă interactivă ...
wolfram alpha ( www.wolframalpha.com ) este un nou tip de motor de căutare , cu care stephen wolfram , un fizician britanic , îşi propune să dea răspunsuri exacte , la obiect , asemenea celor date de un om şi speră să atragă atenţia gigantului google .
microsoft lansează noul său motor de căutare bing.com , ce va fi disponibil tuturor începând cu 3 iunie .
şi în românia , mediapro testează ...
protestele de la chişinău au făcut înconjurul lumii .
cnn a prezentat pe pagina electronică un sumar al evenimentelor de marţi , 7 aprilie 2009 , din republica moldova .
jurnaliştii cnn au remarcat importanţa pe care internetul şi reţelele de socializare au avut-o în organizarea protestelor .
evenimentele din chişinău au fost puse la cale pe twitter sau facebook , lucru observat şi de „ new ...
lansarea windows 7 beta , anunţată cu surle şi trâmbiţe la târgul ces din las vegas , a fost amânată cu 24 de ore , din cauză că serverele au cedat , iar compania a încercat să le suplimenteze cât de repede a putut . compania a fost aspru criticată chiar şi pe blogul oficial al windows de utilizatorii dezamăgiţi că nu au putut testa noul sistem la termenul anunţat .
abilitatea microsoft de a combate pirateria online i-a înfuriat pe utilizatorii de internet chinezi .
noua versiune a programului anti-piratare windows genuine advantage face ca background-ul de pe monitor să se înnegrească la fiecare oră dacă software-ul instalat nu trece un test de validare .
utilizatorii chinezi de internet susţin că microsoft ar trebui să îi urmărească pe producătorii ...
idc : serviciile locale it au crescut cu 48,7 % în 2007 piaţa românească a serviciilor it a avut în 2007 o valoare de 363,14 milioane de dolari , în creştere cu 48,7 % faţă de anul anterior , potrivit unui studiu al companiei de analiză idc , citat în raportul lunar asupra pieţei tehnologiei informaţiei publicat de newsin .
“ piaţa românească a serviciilor it a crescut în 2007 cu 48,7 % , calculată în dolari americani , până la aproape 363,14 ... iphone 3g a fost lansat şi în românia pe 22 august şi au fost înregistrate 6000 de precomenzi , iar 100 de telefoane au fost cumpărate la momentul lansării în bucureşti , potrivit informaţiilor oferite de reprezentanţii orange românia .
în aceeaşi zi , vodafone romania punea la dispoziţia clienţilor săi o ofertă unică ce include noul model htc touch diamond la preţuri speciale şi ... © 2013 cadran politic · rss · designed by theme junkie · powered by wordpressstandard chart markets data center - barrons.com maandalizi ya bunge maalumu la katiba yanazidi kupamba moto na sasa mafunzo kwa wabunge yameanza kutolewa jinsi ya kuichambua rasimu ya katiba ya jamhuri ya muungano wa tanzania ya mwaka 2013 katika bunge hilo linalotarajiwa kuanza mwezi ujao .
mafunzo hayo yalianza kutolewa jana kwa kundi la kwanza la wabunge , ambao ni wajumbe wa kamati sita za kudumu za bunge , katika ofisi ndogo za bunge , jijini dar es salaam , na wataalamu kutoka kituo cha sheria na haki za binadamu ( lhrc ) na chuo kikuu cha mzumbe .
habari kamili rais jakaya kikwete jana alikutana na viongozi wa vyama sita vya siasa vyenye uwakilishi bungeni , ikulu , jijini dar es salaam na kukubaliana mambo makuu mawili .
la kwanza , vyama vyote vya siasa vyenye mawazo , maoni na mapendekezo ya kuboresha muswada wa sheria ya marekebisho ya sheria ya mabadiliko ya katiba wa mwaka 2013 , kuyawasilisha haraka serikalini ili kutafuta namna ya kuyashirikisha katika marekebisho ya sheria hiyo .
kamati ya bunge ya hesabu za serikali ( pac ) , imeiagiza ofisi ya msajili wa vyama vya siasa nchini , kuzuia ruzuku ya kila mwezi kwa vyama baada ya kubainika kuwa kwa miaka minne mfululizo vimekuwa vikikwepa kukaguliwa mahesabu yao .
vyama 16 vya siasa vyenye usajili wa kudumu visivyokuwa na uwakilishi bungeni vimeomba kukutana na rais jakaya kikwete kwa ajili ya mazungumzo kuhusu mambo mbalimbali yanayohusu mchakato wa mabadiliko ya katiba ya nchi .
wabunge wamesema serikali imekuwa ikipoteza fedha za kigeni katika sekta ya utalii kutokana na watalii wengi wanaofika kulipia kiwango kidogo cha fedha , huku wakilipa fedha nyingi katika nchi wanazotoka kwa ajili ya kutembelea vivutio vya utalii nchini .
kamati ya kudumu ya bunge ya tawala za mikoa na serikali za mitaa ( tamisemi ) imemuagiza mkuu wa wilaya ya arusha , john mongella kumsaka mstahiki meya wa arusha , gaudence lyimo , ili apelekwe kwenye kamati hiyo kwa ajili ya kusuluhishwa mvutano wake na mkurugenzi wa jiji la arusha , sipora liana .
rais jakaya kikwete na wenyeviti wa vyama vya chadema , cuf na nccr-mageuzi , sasa watakutana kwa ajili ya mazungumzo kuhusu muswada wa sheria ya marekebisho ya sheria ya mabadiliko ya katiba ya mwaka 2013 , unaodaiwa na vyama hivyo kuwa una kasoro , ikulu , jumanne wiki ijayo .
mbunge wa dodoma mjini , david malolle ( ccm ) , ametangaza rasmi kujitoa kwenye ujumbe wa bodi ya mamlaka ya ustawishaji makao makuu ( cda ) na kuwataka wananchi kuandamana ili mamlaka hiyo ifutwe kwani imekuwa ikibomoa mji na si kuuboresha .
uhuru wa vyombo vya habari umezidi kutiwa kitanzini kufuatia serikali kupanga kuwasilisha katika bunge mwezi huu , muswada wa marekebisho ya sheria ya mbalimbali ya mwaka 2013 ikiwamo sheria ya magazeti ya mwaka 1976 ambayo sasa faini itaongezwa kwa chombo cha habari kinachofanya kosa kwa kiwango cha asilimia 3,233 .
bunge limesema limepokea taarifa rasmi iliyowasilishwa na mbunge wa kigoma kaskazini ( chadema ) , zitto kabwe , ya kukusudia kuwasilisha bungeni muswada binafsi wa marekebisho ya sheria ya magazeti ya mwaka 1976 , kwa lengo la kuifuta kabisa sheria hiyo .
licha ya jeshi la polisi kutumia nguvu kubwa ya kumsaka mbunge wa arusha mjini , godbless lema ( chadema ) kwa kumvamia nyumbani kwake usiku , kuizingira wakiwa wamejihami kwa silaha nzito na mabomu ya machozi kisha kumkamata na kumfunga pingu , baadaye kumfungulia mashitaka ya uchochezi , serikali imeamua kufuta mashitaka hayo .
mahakama ya hakimu mkazi wa sokoine drive , jijini dar es salaam , jana ilishindwa kutoa uamuzi dhidi ya kesi ya kuuza sukari iliyo haribika inayoikabili kampuni ya tanzania pharmaceutical industries limited ( tpi ) baada ya wakili wa utetezi , dennis msafiri , kushindwa kufika mahamani hapo kwa madai ya kuumwa .
mahakama kuu tanzania , kanda ya dar es salaam , imesema itatoa uamuzi desemba 12 , mwaka huu dhidi pingamizi zitakazowasilishwa na upande wa mlalamikiwa kwa njia ya maandishi dhidi ya katibu mkuu wa ccm , abdulrahman kinana .
tume ya mabadiliko ya katiba imelishangaa bunge kwa ’ undumila kuwili ’ wake wa kupitisha sheria mbili zinazokinzana kuhusiana na mchakato unaosimamiwa na tume hiyo .
mwenyekiti wake , jaji joseph warioba alitoa kauli hiyo jana jijini dar es salaam wakati akizungumza na waandishi wa habari , kwa lengo la kuwapa taarifa ya uendeshaji wa mabaraza ya katiba , ngazi ya serikali za mitaa ulivyofanyika .
wizara ya ardhi , nyumba na maendeleo ya makazi imesema kwa sasa haina fedha za kutekeleza agizo la kamati ya hesaba za serikali ( pac ) la kurudia upya zoezi la utoaji wa hati za ardhi , pamoja na kuziweka katika mfumo wa kielektroniki badala ya mfumo wa karatasi ( analojia ) .
waziri wa nchi ofisi ya rais ( mahusiano na uratibu ) , stephen wassira , amekoleza mjadala wa mchakato wa katiba mpya baada ya kuyataka makundi vikiwamo vyama vya upinzani kama vina hoja za msingi zitakazofanya usisainiwe muswada wa marekebisho ya mabadiliko ya katiba wampelekee rais .
tunaondoa wahamiaji haramu , siyo wakimbizi , kikwete aliambia bunge la marekani rais jakaya kikwete ameiambia kamati ya bunge la marekani kuwa tanzania haijafukuza mkimbizi hata mmoja kutoka nchini na wanaoondolewa ni wahamiaji haramu walioingia na kuishi nchini bila kufuata taratibu na sheria za uhamiaji .
mchakato wa kupata katiba mpya umeendelea kupingwa , baada ya wanaharakati kuungana na kutoa tamko la kutaka usiharakishwe huku na rais jakaya kikwete , kutousaini muswada wa sheria ya marekebisho ya mabadiliko ya katiba kutokana na kutokuwapo kwa uelewa mpana hususani maeneo ya ukinzani likiwamo suala la muungano .
vyama vya nccr-mageuzi , cuf na chadema , vimeungana kupinga mchakato wa katiba mpya kwa madai kuwa umehodhiwa na chama cha mapinduzi ( ccm ) na kutawaliwa na ubabe wa kanuni na sheria za bunge kwa kuunyima upande wa zanzibar haki ya kushiriki .
serikali imesema miongoni mwa wanaokwamisha vita dhidi ya ujangili ni wabunge kutokana na baadhi yao kujihusisha na biashara ya pembe za ndovu .
pamoja na kuwataja wabunge ambao ndiyo watunga sheria nchini , serikali imesema pia vita hiyo inashindwa kupata mafanikio kutokana na kuwa na mtandao mkubwa wa wafanyabiashara wakubwa na maofisa wa serikali kujihusisha na biashara hiyo .
mahakama ya rufani tanzania imeombwa kutupa rufaa ya kupinga hukumu ya mahakama kuu iliyothibitisha mbunge wa singida mashariki kupitia chama cha demokrasia na maendeleo ( chadema ) , tundu lissu , kuwa alishinda kihalali katika uchaguzi mkuu wa mwaka 2010 kwa madai kuwa mlalamikaji wa kwanza katika kesi hiyo , shaaban selema amehamia chama hicho .
upelelezi wa tuhuma zinazomkabili mbunge wa mbeya mjini , joseph mbilinyi maarufu kama sugu ( chadema ) , bado unaendelea .
sugu aliripoti kituo cha polisi mjini hapa majira ya asubuhi akiwa ameongozana na wakili wake , mbunge wa singida mashariki ( chadema ) , tundu lissu .
mhadhiri wa chuo kikukuu cha dar es salaam , profesa chris maina , amesema kuna hofu ya kuwa na katiba yenye mtazamo wa chama kimoja cha siasa kutokana na utaratibu uliowekwa wa wajumbe wanaotakiwa kushiriki kwenye bunge la maalumu la katiba .
mbunge wa arusha mjini , godbless lema ( chadema ) , amewataka waumini wa dini kujifunza wajibu wao wa kutoa sadaka nzuri na kuacha kupokea fedha chafu .
alisema hayo mwishoni mwa wiki akiwa mgeni rasmi wakati wa harambee ya kuchangia mfuko wa maendeleo wa parokia ya mtakatifu francis xaver , iliyopo olosipa eneo la sakina kwa iddi .
muswada wa marekebisho ya sheria ya mabadiliko ya katiba wa mwaka 2013 umezidi kuibua mapya , baada ya chama cha demokrasia na maendeleo ( chadema ) kudai kwamba , kikao cha bunge kilichofanya maamuzi ya kuupitisha hakikuwa halali .
wakati mbunge wa mbeya mjini ( chadema ) , joseph mbilinyi , maarufu kwa jina la sugu , akielezewa kujisalimisha polisi , huenda akakabiliwa na hatari ya kufikishwa mahakamani kwa makosa ya jinai .
muswada wa sheria wa mabadiliko ya sheria ya katiba wa mwaka 2013 , umepitishwa ' kiulani ’ na wabunge wa chama cha mapinduzi ( ccm ) huku wenzao wa upinzani wakisusia .
tofauti na ilivyotarajiwa na wengi kwamba muswada huo ungekwamishwa ama kupita kwa mbinde , lakini ulipitishwa jana kwa kufanyiwa mabadiliko madogo na wabunge wa ccm walioshiriki kikamilifu kuujadili kwa kuzungumza na wengine kwa maandishi .
muswada wa sheria ya marekebisho ya mabadiliko ya katiba wa mwaka 2013 umeligawa bunge , baada ya wabunge kutoka vyama vya chadema , nccr-mageuzi na cuf kususia mjadala wa muswada huo na kutoka nje ya ukumbi wa bunge na kuwaacha wabunge wa ccm na augustine mrema wa tlp .
baadhi ya washiriki wa mkutano wa 10 wa umoja wa kamati za bunge za hesabu za serikali kwa nchi za jumuiya ya maendeleo ya kusini mwa afrika ( sadcopac ) , wamevitaka vyama vilivyounda serikali zilizopo madarakani kuwapa uhuru wa majadiliano na usimamiaji wa hoja zenye maslahi ya umma ndani ya vikao vya bunge .
tanzania kwa mara ya kwanza katika historia ya bunge la afrika mashariki imefanikiwa kupata kikao rasmi katika ratiba ya vikao vya bunge hilo .
mwenyekiti wa wabunge watanzania katika bunge la afrika mashariki , adam kimbisa , alisema tanzania kama nchi pia imefanikiwa kupata kikao chake .
daftarila kudumu la wapigakura linapaswa kufanyiwa maboresho kila wakati ili kuwawezesha watanzania wanaofikisha umri wa miaka 18 waandikishwe , mmoja wa wajumbe wa mabaraza ya katiba amependekeza .
wabunge wamekishambulia vikali chama kilele ( apex ) , cha kusambaza pembejeo kwa wakulima nchini na kuitaka serikali kukifutilia mbali kutokana na sababu kadhaa ikiwamo ya kuwanyonya wakulima .
bunge limeishauri serikali kuweka utaratibu wa kuwabana wabadhirifu wa fedha za vyama vya ushirika na kama watathibitika kuhusika na kosa hilo , wafilisiwe mali zao zote pamoja na kufidia hasara iliyopatikana .
kambi ya upinzani bungeni imemshushia tuhuma nzito waziri wa maliasili na utalii , balozi khamis kagasheki ( pichani ) , ikiwamo ya kushinikiza mradi upewe msaada wa sh. milioni 10 kutoka mamlaka ya hifadhi ya ngorongoro ( ncaa ) kinyume cha taratibu .
kikao cha bunge kinatarajia kuendelea leo mjini hapa baada ya mapumziko ya mwishoni mwa wiki huku miswada miwili ya sheria kati ya sita iliyopangwa kuwasilishwa katika mkutano wa bunge wa 12 , kujadiliwa ikiondolewa .
baraza la kitaasisi la wanawake wanahabari , limesema katiba mpya iainishe suala la usawa katika nyanja zote za uongozi ikiwa ni pamoja na uongozi wa mihimili mikuu mitatu ya utawala yaani serikali , bunge na mahakama .
mvutano uliokuwapo kati ya wabunge wa rwanda , uganda na kenya kutaka vikao vya bunge la afrika ya mashariki ( eala ) vifanyike kwa mzunguko kwa nchi wanachama , huku tanzania wakipinga umemalizika kwa makubaliano kila nchi kifanyike kikao kimoja katika kalenda ya mwaka .
mbio za kugombea urais katika uchaguzi mkuu wa mwaka 2015 kupitia chama cha mapinduzi ( ccm ) zimeanza kuchukua sura mpya , baada ya baadhi ya vigogo kujitokeza hadharani kumpigia debe spika wa bunge , anne makinda .
kauli iliyotolewa juzi bungeni na waziri wa nchi , ofisi ya waziri mkuu ( sera , uratibu na bunge ) , william lukuvi , kuwa wabunge wengi ni miongoni mwa orodha ya majina ya wanaojihusisha na biashara ya dawa za kulevya , imeoonekana kuwachefua wabunge .
sakata la biashara ya dawa za kulevya sasa limechukua sura mpya baada ya jana waziri wa nchi , ofisi ya waziri mkuu ( sera , uratibu na bunge ) , william lukuvi , kulieleza bunge kuwa iwapo serikali itaamua kuwataja vigogo wa biashara hiyo nchini kama inavyopewa taarifa kutoka vyanzo mbalimbali , hakuna atakayepona kwani miongoni mwao wamo wabunge wengi .
wakati wananchi wakiwa hawajajua majaliwa yao juu maamuzi ya serikali kuhusu kilio chao dhidi ya kodi ya simu ya sh .
1,000 kwa mwezi iliyopitishwa na bunge la bajeti ya mwaka 2013 / 14 , kuna habari kwamba mzigo huo sasa unaweza kuhamishiwa kwenye ununuaji wa vocha .
mkutano wa 12 wa bunge la jamhuri ya muungano wa tanzania unatarajiwa kuanza mjini hapa leo ambapo pamoja na mambo mengine , utajadili miswada sita .
kwa mujibu wa ratiba iliyotolewa na ofisi ya bunge hapa jana , kikao kitaanza saa 3 : 00 asubuhi kwa kipindi cha maswali na majibu na baadaye kufuatiwa na muswada wa sheria ya taifa ya umwagiliaji wa mwaka 2013 ambao utajadiliwa hadi kesho jumatano .
tegemeo la umma kwa serikali kuwasilisha bungeni muswada wa mabadiliko ya sheria iliyoanzisha tozo la shilingi 1,000 kwa mwezi kwa watumiaji wa simu za kiganjani , limetoweka .
hali hiyo inatokana na bunge kupanga ratiba ya shughuli zake kwa mkutano wa 12 unaoanza jumanne wiki ijayo mjini dodoma , pasipo kuwapo muswada wa mabadiliko ya sheria ya fedha inayoanzisha tozo za simu .
kamati ya kudumu ya bunge ya hesabu za serikali ( pac ) , imesema kuwa taarifa ya matumizi ya fedha katika wizara ya ujenzi , ina shaka kwani kuna fedha ambazo ziliombwa kwa ajili ya miradi ambayo haipo .
shirika la nyumba la taifa ( nhc ) , limesema baadhi ya wanasiasa walioko katika mamlaka za juu serikalini , watu maarufu pamoja na matajiri , wamekuwa wakiendesha vitendo vya hujuma za makusudi kwa nia mbaya ya kukwamisha kasi ya utendaji kazi mzuri wa shirika .
kamati ya hesabu za serikali ( pac ) , imeiagiza wizara ya ardhi , nyumba na maendeleo ya makazi kurudia upya zoezi la utoaji wa hati za ardhi zote , pamoja na kuziweka katika mfumo wa kielektroniki badala ya mfumo wa karatasi , yaani analojia .
kamati tatu za bunge zimelalamikia sheria ya maadili ya viongozi wa umma kwamba haiweki uwazi wa kutangaza umiliki wa mali za viongozi hivyo kusababisha viongozi kutoweka wazi mali wanazomiliki .
mbunge wa urambo mashariki ( ccm ) , samuel sitta , amesema mahasimu wake kisiasa , wameimarisha mkakati wa kumchonganisha na wabunge , ili kufifisha jitihada zake za kupambana na ufisadi .
kamati ya bunge ya ardhi , maliasili na mazingira imesema vigogo wakubwa wa serikali wanaongoza kwa kujihusisha na biashara ya pembe za ndovu ndiyo maana zoezi la kuzuia majangili halifanikiwi kwa miaka mingi .
madudu zaidi yamebainika katika wizara ya elimu na mafunzo ya ufundi , baada ya kuwapanga baadhi ya wanafunzi wa kidato cha tano kwenye shule ambazo hazina masomo ya michepuo yao .
hii ni baada ya wanafunzi 1,189 waliochaguliwa kujiunga kidato cha tano katika shule mbalimbali nchini kubadilishwa na kupangiwa shule nyingine .
mahakama ya hakimu mkazi mkoa wa mtwara imetupilia mbali mashtaka ya uchochezi yaliyokuwa yakimkabili mbunge wa mtwara mjini ( ccm ) , hasnain murji , hivyo ameachiwa huru .
murji alikuwa akikabiliwa na tuhuma za uchochezi wa vurugu za kupinga kujengwa bomba la kusafirisha gesi asilia kutoka mkoani mtwara hadi jijini dar es salaam , zilizosababisha vifo vya watu watatu na wengine kadhaa kujeruhiwa mei , mwaka huu .
mbunge wa masasi mjini , mariam kasembe ( ccm ) , amemwaga machozi mbele ya waziri wa maji , profesa jumanne maghembe , baada ya kutembele nyumba yake iliyoteketezwa kwa moto na wananchi katika vurugu zilizotokea machi , mwaka huu .
wajumbe wa kamati ya bunge ya hesabu za serikali za mitaa ( laac ) wamekuja juu kutokana na ujenzi wa soko la mwanjelwa la halmashauri ya jiji la mbeya kusuasua na kuiomba serikali kuingilia baada ya mkandarasi kudaiwa kuandika barua ya kuomba kusitisha mkataba .
wakati jeshi la polisi likitoa visingizio kwamba linashindwa kunasa watuhumiwa wanaosafirisha dawa za kulevya wanaopitia uwanja wa ndege wa kimataifa wa julius nyerere ( jnia ) , kutokana na kukosekana kwa vitendea kazi , mbunge wa kinondoni ( ccm ) , idd azzan , amesema yupo tayari kupigwa risasi au kunyongwa hadharani kama itathibitika anahusika na biashara hiyo .
serikali sasa imekubali kuwa kodi mpya ya laini ya simu ni mgogoro na inakusudia kurejesha muswada wa sheria ulioazisha kodi hiyo bungeni kwa mjadala zaidi .
waziri wa ushirikiano wa afrika mashariki , samuel sitta ( pichani ) , amesema litakuwa jambo la kuchekesha duniani iwapo nchi maskini kama tanzania itakuwa na marais watatu kama muundo wa serikali tatu uliopendekezwa kwenye rasimu ya katiba mpya utapitishwa .
waziri wa uchukuzi , dk .
harrison mwakyembe , ametoa misaada yenye thamani ya zaidi ya sh. milioni 40 jimboni mwake yakiwamo madawati 315 yatakayogawanywa kwa shule za msingi za jimbo la kyela mkoani mbeya .
hatimaye serikali imetoa tamko kuhusu kuwatoza watumiaji wa simu za mkononi kiasi cha sh.1000 kama kodi kila mwezi kwa madai ya kwamba kodi hiyo ilisharidhiwa na kupitishwa na wabunge wenyewe na kwamba inalenga kuboresha huduma mbalimbali za kijamii nchini .
naibu spika , job ndugai , amewataka wananchi kutoa taarifa katika ofisi ya bunge pale wanapobaini kuwapo kwa matumizi mabaya ya fedha za mfuko wa maendeleo ya jimbo ( cgf ) .
ndugai alisema zipo taratibu zinazotakiwa kufuatwa katika matumizi ya fedha hizo ambazo pamoja na kwamba mbunge ni mwenyekiti wa mfuko huo , lakini haruhusiwi kufanya manunuzi mwenyewe .
mahakama ya hakimu mkazi mkoa wa dodoma , imemfutia mashtaka na kumwachia huru , mbunge wa mbeya mjini , joseph mbilinyi , ( chadema ) , maarufu sugu baada ya kuthibitisha kuwa hati ya mashtaka ina mapungufu ya kisheria .
hofu ya kutopatikana tija kwa fedha nyingi zinazoidhinishwa katika bajeti kwa ajili ya miradi ya kupambana na ukimwi imesababisha makadirio ya matumizi ya ofisi ya makamu wa kwanza wa rais zanzibar maalim seif sharif hamad , kukwama kupitishwa .
mbunge wa iringa mjini ( chadema ) , mchungaji peter msigwa ameitaka serikali ieleze ni lini itawajengea askari nyumba bora ili waweze kuishi katika mazingira mazuri .
msigwa alitoa kauli hiyo jana bungeni alipokuwa akiuliza swali la nyongeza kwa kuitaka serikali ieleze ni lini itawaboreshea makazi askari wa jeshi la polisi hususani askari wa iringa mjini kutokana na kuishi katika nyumba alizosema hazina hadhi .
chama cha demokrasia na maendeleo ( chadema ) kimetajwa kuwa kimeongoza kwa wabunge wake 48 kutoa michango 57 kwenye vikao mbalimbali vya bunge vinavyoendelea mjini dodoma .
tathmini hiyo ya miaka miwili ya bunge ilifanywa na shirika lisilo la kiserikali , twaweza kwa kushirikiana na kituo cha economic prosperity ( cep ) kwa kuzingatia ushiriki wa wabunge katika vikao kwa miaka miwili ya kipindi cha ubunge cha 2010 – 2015 .
jana bunge lilipitisha bajeti ya serikali kwa mwaka wa fedha wa 2013 / 14 huku ikiweka kiporo suala la kupunguza kodi ya mafuta ya petroli , dizeli na taa , kodi ya lipa kadiri unavyopata ( paye ) na bodaboda , badala yake kodi hizo zitatolewa ufafanuzi katika muswada wa fedha utakapowasilishwa bungeni kesho kutwa .
waziri wa fedha , dk .
william mgimwa , leo atakuwa kikaangoni atakapoanza kujibu hoja za wabunge hasa ongezeko la ushuru wa mafuta ya petroli ambalo limelalamikiwa na baadhi ya wabunge wa chama cha mapinduzi ( ccm ) kuwa ina mapungufu kadhaa .
mbunge wa nkasi kaskazini , ali keissy ( ccm ) , amewataka watanzania kuwa makini na sheria mpya ya ndoa inayotarajiwa kuletwa bungeni .
mbunge huyo amesema sheria hiyo mpya inaweza ikasababisha nchi kuongozwa na rais , wabunge na madiwani wanaojihusisha na vitendo vya mapenzi ya jinsia moja ( mashoga ) .
mbunge wa korogwe vijijini , stephen ngonyani maarufu profesa majimarefu ( ccm ) , ametahadharisha wanasiasa kuacha kupandikiza mbegu ya ukabila nchini kwa sababu hali hiyo inakwamisha jitihada za kuwaletea wananchi maendeleo .
mbunge wa kasulu mjini , moses machali ( nccr-mageuzi ) , amejeruhiwa baada ya kupigwa na watu wasiojulikana karibu na nyumbani kwake wakati akitokea kuhudhuria vikao vya bunge .
aidha , kijana mmoja aliyekuwa akimsaidia machali , alijeruhiwa kwa kung ’ atwa meno mgongoni .
mbunge wa viti maalum , clara mwatuka ( cuf ) , amelikana swali lake na kudai kuwa hakuwahi kuuliza swali linalohusu rada hata siku moja . & ldquo ; mheshimiwa spika & hellip ; tangu niingie bungeni hapa sijawahi kuuliza swali linalohusu masuala ya rada hata siku moja kwa hiyo hilo si swali langu , & rdquo ; alisema hata hivyo , spika wa bunge , anne makinda alipoona mbunge huyo amelikana swali hilo alisema : & ldquo ; waziri naomba basi hilo swali liwe langu .
mbunge wa bukene , seleman zedi ( ccm ) , ameitaka serikali kuliwezesha shirika la maendeleo ya petroli ( tpdc ) , ili lidhibiti na kusimamia kampuni zinazojishughulisha na utafiti wa mafuta na gesi nchi ipate faida .
kamati maalum ya kuchunguza mgogoro wa ujenzi wa bomba la gesi asilia kutoka mtwara kwenda dar es salaam , imesema imefikia katika hatua nzuri baada ya kuwasikiliza watu wengi wanaohusika na mgogoro huo .
wakati mbunge wa dole , sylivester mabumba ( ccm ) , akiomba serikali kuunda tume ya kuwachunguza maofisa wa mamlaka ya mapato tanzania ( tra ) wenye mali za kupindukia , mbunge wa manyoni magharibi , john lwenje ( ccm ) ameomba wafanyakazi wa wizara ya fedha waondolewe badala yake wakodiwe wataalam wazungu kufanya kazi hiyo .
serikali sasa isikilize hoja hizi za wabunge kuhusu bajeti ya 2013 / 14 jumatatu ijayo wabunge wa bunge la jamhuri ya muungano wa tanzania watapitisha bajeti ya serikali kwa mwaka wa fedha wa 2013 / 14 iliyowasilishwa bungeni wiki iliyopita .
mbunge wa kawe , halima mdee , ameanza mazoezi makali kwa ajili ya kumkabili nyota wa filamu nchini , jacqueline wolper , katika moja ya mapambano ya ndondi za utangulizi yatakayofanyika kwenye tamasha la matumaini kwenye uwanja wa taifa jijini dar es salaam julai 7 .
mbunge wa sumbawanga mjini ( ccm ) , hillary aeshi , amemlipua mbunge wa zamani wa jimbo la kwela , chrisant mzindakaya , akidai amemilikishwa nyumba 15 za serikali peke yake wilayani sumbawanga .
taarifa ya serikali iliyosomwa bungeni jana na waziri wa nchi , ofisi ya waziri mkuu ( sera , uratibu na bunge ) , william lukuvi , kuhusiana na tukio la shambulizi la bomu jijini arusha jumamosi iliyopita , imemchafua mwenyekiti wa chama cha demokrasia na maendeleo ( chadema ) , freeman mbowe .
kambi ya upinzani bungeni jana ilishindwa kuwasilisha bajeti mbadala bungeni kwa mwaka wa fedha 2013 / 2014 baada ya wabunge wake kutohudhuria kikao hicho .
hata hivyo , kambi hiyo ilitoa hotuba yake kwa vyombo vya habari ikieleza kutumia sh .
mbunge wa mbozi mashariki , godfrey zambi ( ccm ) , ameitaka serikali kutoa tamko kuhusu kauli ya mkurugezi mkuu wa taasisi ya kuzuia na kupambana na rushwa ( takukuru ) , dk .
edward hosea , kuwa amefungwa mikono kuwashtaki vigogo wanaojihusisha na rushwa kubwa kubwa badala yake amepewa uwezo wa kushitaki makosa madogo madogo ongezeko la manunuzi na matumizi makubwa ya serikali , ambalo hayaendi sambamba na ongezeko la juhudi za ukusanyaji wa mapato , yataendelea kuwa mzigo mzito kwa taifa iwapo hatua hazitachukuliwa kurekebisha hali hiyo .
mbunge wa kisesa ( ccm ) , luhaga mpina , amesema hataiunga mkono bajeti ya serikali ya 2013 / 2014 kwa sababu haina jipya ikiwamo kukosekana kwa vyanzo vipya vya mapato na nidhamu katika upangaji wa matumizi .
spika wa bunge , anne makinda , amewashukia wabunge akisema kwamba hawana mtandao wa pamoja katika kusimamia masuala yanayogusa maslahi ya nchi .
amesema wengi wao kila mmoja huwa anajibu hoja yake mwenyewe bila kuwashirikisha wenzake ili aonekane ndiye mwanzilishi .
serikali imetangaza bajeti yake ya mwaka wa fedha wa 2013 / 14 ambayo imepandisha kodi za & hellip ; & hellip ; ili kufanikisha lengo la kukusanya jumla ya sh. trilioni 18.249 kutoka kwenye vyanzo vya ndani na nje .
wabunge wamelalamikia ongezeko la kodi katika mafuta ya petroli wakisema litachangia kupandisha zaidi gharama za maisha kwa wananchi .
lawama hizo walizitoa jana wakati wakitoa maoni yao kuhusu bajeti ya serikali kwa mwaka 2013 / 2014 iliyosomwa na waziri wa fedha , dk .
serikali imebuni mfumo mpya wa usambazaji wa pembejeo utakaotumika katika msimu wa kilimo wa 2013 / 14 .
naibu waziri wa kilimo , chakula na ushirika , adam malima aliliambia bunge mjini hapa jana kuwa , mfumo huo umejadiliwa katika semina ya usambazaji wa pembejeo iliyofanyika mei mwaka huu .
zao la mwani limeanza kukosa soko visiwani hapa na kutokana na mahitaji yake kuwa madogo katika soko la dunia ikilinganishwa na kiwango kikubwa kinachozalishwa na wakulima wa unguja na pemba .
katibu wa mbunge wa mtwara mjini , hasnain murji , meckland millanzi , ameiomba mahakama ya wilaya ya mtwara kutenda haki , bila kushinikizwa na upande wowote ili haki itendeke dhidi ya mbunge huyo , ambaye yuko rumande kwa kushindwa kutimiza masharti ya dhamana .
macho na masikio ya wananchi kesho yanaelekezwa dodoma kusikiliza bajeti ya serikali kwa mwaka 2013 / 14 itakayowasilishwa majira ya saa 10 jioni .
hii ni bajeti muhimu sana kwa wananchi kwa sababu ndiyo itakayofafanua mipango ya maendeleo ya serikali kwa mwaka wa fedha wa 2013 / 14 .
mbunge wa mkinga , dastan kitandula , amesema serikali inapoteza sh. bilioni 26 kwa mwaka kutokana na makampuni matano ya uchimbaji wa madini ambayo yamegoma kulipa kodi .
kutokana na hali hiyo , mbunge huyo ametaka kujua hatua za haraka zinazochukuliwa na serikali kuhakikisha kampuni hizo zinalipa kodi hizo .
mbunge wa jimbo la kilwa kusini , selemani bungara , amewataka wachezaji wa soka kujituma zaidi wawapo mashindanoni kutokana na mchezo huo sasa kugeuka ajira inayolipa .
hayo yalisemwa na diwani wa kata ya masoko , abdallah abbas kwa niaba ya mbunge huyo wakati wa ufunguzi wa mashindano ya kombe la bungara yanayoshirikisha kata mbili za kivinje na masoko zilizopo wilayani kilwa .
wabunge wamepinga marekebisho ya sheria ya uchaguzi wa mamlaka za serikali za mitaa yanayolenga kuongeza muda usiozidi miezi sita inapoonekana kwamba kesi za uchaguzi wa madiwani haziwezi kuhitimishwa ndani ya miezi 18 .
mbunge wa viti maalum ( chadema ) , susan lyimo amependekeza kuwa rais ambaye anamaliza muda wake wa utawala huku akiwa ameshindwa kutekeleza ahadi alizotoa kwenye kampeni za uchaguzi kupelekwa mahakamani .
waziri wa nchi katika ofisi ya waziri mkuu , tawala za mikoa na serikali za mitaa ( tamisemi ) , hawa ghasia , amesema wakaguzi wa ndani ambao watabainika kuwa ripoti zao hazina mapungufu ambayo yameainishwa na mkaguzi wa nje watachukuliwa hatua .
hatimaye hali ya amani katika eneo la kiwanda cha kusindika chai cha mponde imeanza kutengemaa baada ya kikundi cha ushirika wa chai cha kwaminyasa waliokuwa wamezingira kiwanda hicho kwa kuzuia kuendelea kwa shughuli za uendeshaji kuamriwa kuondoka mara moja na serikali ya mkoa wa tanga .
tamashala matumaini ambalo mwaka jana lilifanyika kwenye uwanja wa taifa , dar es salaam , mwaka huu tena linarejea kwenye uwanja huo julai 7 ambapo kutakuwa na burudani na michezo mbalimbali .
mgawanyiko umeibuka miongoni mwa wabunge kupitia chama cha mapinduzi ( ccm ) , ukihusishwa na masuala ya udini katika kupitisha bajeti za wizara zilizowasilishwa bungeni .
vyanzo vya habari kutoka ndani ya kamati ya wabunge hao , vimeeleza kuwa , licha ya chama hicho kuwa katika makundi yanayopingika kwa misimamo , wameibuka wabunge wanaotumia mianya ya kidini kupenyeza ajenda zao .
ile ’ nyundo ’ inayotumiwa kuwashughulikia wabunge wanaotokana na vyama vya siasa , inaelekea kuzikwa rasmi , baada ya rasimu ya katiba mpya ya mwaka 2013 , iliyozinduliwa jumatatu wiki hii , kupendekeza kwamba uamuzi wa vyama hivyo wa kuwafukuza au kuwavua uanachama , hautapoteza ubunge wao .
kambi ya upinzani imeibua sakata la ufisadi wa shilingi bilioni 133 kwenye akaunti ya madeni ya nje ( epa ) ikihoji mambo kadhaa ikiwamo kiasi cha fedha zilizorejeshwa hadi sasa .
mwenyekiti wa chama cha nccr-mageuzi , james mbatia , ameitaka serikali kusitisha usambazaji wa nakala za vitabu na mihutasari inayofikia milioni 18 , akiviita kuwa ni ’ sumu kwa kizazi cha tanzania ’ .
mbunge wa viti maalum ( chadema ) , suzan lyimo , ameibana serikali akiitaka ilielezea taifa kwanini mawaziri wametoa kauli mbili tofauti kuhusiana na upangaji wa matokeo ya kidato cha nne kwa kutumia mfumo mpya wa fixed grade ranges , ambao unaelezwa kusababisha wanafunzi wengi kufeli .
bunge juzi lilipitisha makadirio ya mapato na matumizi ya wizara ya elimu na mafunzo ya ufundi baada ya kuwako kwa mjadala mkali na wa kina juu ya utendaji wa wizara hii .
mambo mengi ya kimsingi yaliwekwa wazi hasa juu ya kuendelea kuporomoka kwa ubora wa elimu nchini .
waziri wa nchi ofisi ya rais ( mahusiano na uratibu ) , steven wassira na makamu mkuu wa chuo kikuu cha mtakatifu agustino ( saut ) , dk.charles kitima , wametoana jasho kwenye mhadhara wa jumuiya ya wanafunzi wa saut , wakati walipokuwa wakijadili dhana ya maendeleo na amani ya nchi .
wakati umma ukiendelea kujadili rasimu ya katiba mpya iliyotolewa na tume ya katiba , kundi ambalo linaelekea kukumbwa na kimbunga kikubwa ni watu waliokuwa wanausaka ubunge ili kupata nafasi za uwaziri .
mbunge wa rombo ( chadema ) , joseph selasini , ’ amemshukia ’ mbunge wa mbinga magharibi ( ccm ) , john komba , kwa kutunga na kuimba nyimbo zinazochochea kuvuruga amani , umoja na mshikamano nchini .
kuna dalili kwamba tume ya katiba mpya chini ya mwenyekiti wake , jaji joseph warioba , imetaga yai la dhahabu .
pamoja na kila aina ya udhaifu ambao unaweza kutajwa kuwamo ndani ya rasimu ya katiba mpya ya jamhuri ya muungano wa tanzania iliyowekwa hadharani jumatatu wiki hii , bado ukweli mmoja unabakia umesimama wima na kuonekana wazi na kila muungwana na anayeitakia nchi hii mema .
mbunge wa ccm ailipua serikali matokeo mabaya kidato cha nne kasi ya wabunge kupitia chama cha mapinduzi ( ccm ) , kukosoa utekelezaji wa serikali ya rais jakaya kikwete inazidi kuongezeka ndani ya bunge .
jana , mbunge wa ngara ( ccm ) , deogratias ntukamazina , aliikosoa serikali hiyo kwa kuyafuta matokeo ya mtihani wa kidato cha nne kwa mwaka 2012 , kisha kuyatangaza utangaza upya hivi karibuni .
vyama vya wafanyakazi , wanasheria na walemavu vimesema rasimu ya katiba mpya utaleta katiba nzuri .
katibu mkuu wa chama cha walemavu tanzania ( shiviwata ) , elias masamaki , amesema rasimu ya katiba mpya inaonyesha kuwatendea haki walemavu kwa kupendekeza kuwa rais ateue wabunge walemavu kwa kuwa watasaidia kuwakomboa walemavu wenzao .
tabia ya utoro wa mawaziri na wabunge bungeni sasa limegeuka kuwa maisha ya kawaida hata wakati wa kujadili masuala nyeti yenye maslahi kwa taifa .
kuna wakati mbunge wa mwibara ( ccm ) , kangi lugora aliwahi kuomba bunge liahirishe mjadala wa bajeti ya wizara ya kilimo baada ya kuona idadi ndogo sana ya wabunge na mawaziri bungeni .
kumezuka tabia ya baadhi ya wabunge kujigeuza wasemaji wa serikali bungeni kazi ambayo kwa kawaida hufanywa na mawaziri .
kuna baadhi ya wabunge ambao wamesahu kwamba wajibu wao wa msingi ni kuikosoa na kusimamia serikali kuhakikisha inatimiza wajibu wake wa kutimiza ahadi na kuwaletea wananchi maendeleo .
wiki iliyopita , kikao cha bunge la bajeti katika kujadili hotuba ya waziri wa mambo ya nje na ushirikiano wa kimataifa , bernad membe , lilichafuka .
vurugu zikatokea kati ya wabunge wa vyama vinavyoungwa mkono kwa wingi nchini , chama cha demokrasia na maendeleo ( chadema ) na chama cha wananchi ( cuf ) .
mbunge wa kondoa kaskazini , zabein mhita ( ccm ) , amedondosha machozi bungeni baada ya kukumbuka jinsi alivyolazimika kupanda kwenye mti ili kupokea simu ya msiba wa mwanae .
mhita ambaye aliwahi kuwa waziri wa sayansi na teknolojia na elimu ya juu , katika serikali ya awamu ya tatu iliyoongozwa rais mstaafu benjamin mkapa , alimwaga machozi jana wakati akichangia hotuba ya bajeti ya wizara ya mawasiliano , sayansi na teknolojia kwa mwaka 2013 / 2014 .
waziri mkuu mstaafu , edward lowassa , amewataka watanzania kujenga utamaduni wa kuchangia masuala ya maendeleo katika maeneo walikotoka na sio kusubiri kurudishwa katika masanduku wakiwa marehemu .
spika wa bunge , anne makinda , ameshiriki ibada ya maombi maalum kwa ajili ya kumuombea hayati baba wa taifa , mwalimu julisu nyerere .
maombi hayo yalifanyika katika mji wa namgongo nchini uganda yakiwa na lengo la kumtangaza mwalimu nyerere kuwa mwenye heri na hatimaye mtakatifu kulingana na na imani ya dhehebu la kikatoliki .
mbunge wa ngara , deogratias ntukamazina ( ccm ) , amesema baadhi ya watumishi wa halmashauri wana uwezo wa kuwaweka mfukoni wakaguzi wa mahesabu na kupewa hati safi na kuficha mapungufu .
wakati tume ya mabadiliko ya katiba ikizindua rasimu ya katiba ya jamhuri ya muungano wa tanzania jijini dar es salaam leo , wananchi wengi wanashauku kubwa kujua kama itajibu masuala nyeti kama mfumo wa muungano , rasilimali , madaraka ya rais na mengine mengi .
wakati watanzania wakilalamikia mwenendo usioridhisha wa uendeshaji wa vikao vya bunge , naibu spika , job ndugai , ameibuka na kusema kuanzia sasa mbunge kutoka chama cha upinzani akifanya kitendo chochote cha utovu wa nidhamu bungeni hatachukuliwa hatua za kinidhamu .
chama cha demokrasia na maendeleo ( chadema ) na chama cha wananchi ( cuf ) , vimeliangukia bunge na kuomba msahama kwa ’ machafuko ’ waliyoyasabisha jana bungeni mjini dodoma .
dalili za kukwama kwa bajeti ya wizara ya maendeleo ya mifugo , zimeonekana jana , baada ya wabunge kuitaka serikali kuongeza shilingi bilioni 40 katika bajeti ya wizara hiyo kwa mwaka 2013 / 2014 .
hotuba ya kambi rasmi ya upinzani kuhusu bajeti ya wizara ya mambo ya nje na ushrikiano wa kimataifa jana ilisababisha mtafaruku mkubwa bungeni na siku nzima bunge likakwama kufanya shughuli zake .
wabunge wameitaka serikali kuangalia upya misamaha ya kodi nchini ili kuokoa mabilioni ya fedha yanayopotea kila mwaka kutokana na misamaha hiyo .
walitoa rai hiyo jana katika mdahalo ulioandaliwa na asasi za kiraia nchini ( azaki ) , ikiwa ni sehemu ya shughuli zinazofanyika katika maonyesho ya asasi hizo yanayoendelea katika viwanja vya bunge mjini hapa .
mbunge wa jimbo la ludewa ccm ) , deo filikunjombe , amejikuta akibebwa juu juu na wananchi wake baada ya kuwasili katika kijiji cha lupingu , kilichopo katika tarafa ya mwambao wa ziwa nyasa , wilayani humo .
nchi za afrika zimetakiwa kuridhia na kusaini mkataba wa kupinga matumizi yasiyo sahihi ya silaha ambazo hazina alama yoyote ili kupunguza uhalifu katika nchi hizo .
hayo yalielezwa jijini dar es salaam na mbunge wa korogwe mjini ( ccm ) , yusuph abdallah nassir , wakati akifungua mkutano wa mtandao wabunge wanaopigania demokrasia , amani , utawala wa sheria , na haki za binadamu duniani .
upelelezi wa kesi ya kuchochea kutenda kosa na kusababisha uvunjifu wa amani katika chuo cha uhasibu njiro inayomkabili mbunge wa arusha mjini godbless lema umekamilika .
naibu waziri wa sayansi na teknolojia , january makamba , anatuhumiwa kushiriki kuchochea wananchi ili wafanye uasi na kujichukulia sheria mkononi kwa kuwahamasisha kuvamia kiwanda cha kusindika chai cha mponde ambao wamefanya uharibifu mkubwa wilayani lushoto .
mjumbe wa kamati teule ya bunge iliyoundwa na spika anne makinda , wiki iliyopita kwa ajili ya kuchunguza kiini cha mgogoro wa ujenzi wa bomba la gesi kutoka mtwara kwenda dar es salaam , ramo makani , ’ amewatuliza ’ wanafunzi wa vyuo vya elimu ya juu wanaotoka mikoa ya kusini , akiwataka kukaa pembeni na kuiachia kamati hiyo kutafuta ukweli wa madai ya wakazi wa mkoa wa mtwara .
wabunge wameijia juu serikali wakitaka wawekezaji na vigogo waliojilimbikizia ardhi kubwa bila kuiendeleza wafutiwe umiliki ili igawiwe kwa wananchi wasio na ardhi .
walitoa ushauri huo jana wakati wakichangia makadirio ya mapato na matumizi ya wizara ya ardhi , nyumba na maendeleo ya makazi .
mbunge wa kisesa ( ccm ) , luhaga mpina leo anatarajia kuwasilisha bungeni maelezo binafsi kwa spika , juu ya matumizi ya kawaida ya serikali kuwa makubwa kuliko mapato ya ndani na hivyo kusababisha deni la taifa kuongezeka .
spika wa bunge , anne makinda , jumamosi aliunda kamati ya bunge kwenda kuchunguza chanzo cha vurugu mtwara , uamuzi huo wa spika , umepingwa na mbunge wa ubungo , ( chadema ) , john mnyika ambaye amezungumza na mwandishi wetu kuhusu mambo aliyodai kuwa spika amekiuka kanuni za bunge .
bila kumung ’ unya maneno naweza kurudia yaliyowahi kusemwa , yanayosemwa na yanayoendelea kusemwa kuhusu upendeleo wa spika wa bunge , anne makinda , dhidi ya wabunge wa ccm .
yamesemwa mengi kuhusu namna anavyoliendesha bunge kishabiki , inavyoonekana hafanyi hivyo kwa matakwa yake bali kwa shinikizo la waliomweka madarakani .
kambi ya rasmi ya upinzani bungeni , imeorodhesha mashamba 36 yenye ukubwa wa maelfu ya hekta za ardhi ambayo wananchi waliporwa kimabavu na serikali kwa kutofuata sheria na kisha kupewa wawekezaji .
mbunge wa tabora mjini ( ccm ) , aden rage , ameitaka serikali kuongeza ada ya usajili wa magezeti hadi kufikia sh. milioni 500 badala ya sh .
500,000 ilivyo sasa .
rage alitoa kauli hiyo jana bungeni alipokuwa akiuliza swali la nyongeza , akiitaka serikali kuongeza ada ya usajili hadi kufikia sh .
mbunge wa mtwara mjini , hasnain mohamed murji , amesema wananchi wa mtwara hawazuii gesi asilia kusafirishwa kwenda dar es salaam , bali wanachotaka ni kuwapo kwa mchanganuo wa jinsi watakavyonufaika na mradi huo .
katibu mkuu wa wizara ya nishati na madini , eliakim maswi , amezozana na mbunge wa simanjiro ( ccm ) , christopher ole sendeka , kwa kile kinachoelezwa kuchukizwa na tabia ya mbunge huyo ya kuipiga ’ mawe ’ mazito hoja za wizara hiyo .
mbunge wa arusha mjini ( chadema ) , godbless lema , amelishutumu jeshi la polisi mkoani arusha kwamba limekwa kipeperushi cha mkuu wa mkoa wa huo , magesa mulongo , kutokana na kutumika katika kumsafisha katika sakata la kutumiwa ujumbe wa vitisho katika simu yake ya mkononi .
uamuzi wa spika wa bunge , anne makinda , jumamosi kuunda kamati ya bunge kwenda kuchunguza chanzo cha vurugu mtwara umepingwa na mbunge wa ubungo , ( chadema ) , john mnyika .
mnyika anasema bunge lilipaswa kuunda kamati teule badala yake spika ameunda kamati yake maalum ambayo haitazingatia kwa ukamilifu matakwa ya sheria ya kinga , haki na madaraka ya bunge katika kuwahoji mashahidi na kuitisha ushahidi .
baraza la habari la tanzania ( mct ) , limemshukia mbunge kondoa kusini ( ccm ) , juma nkamia , kwa hatua yake ya kulipuuza baraza hilo wakati alishawahi kunufaika nalo kwa kupelekwa india yeye na wadau wengine wa habari kujifunza sheria na haki za kupata habari ziara iliyogharimu sh .
wabunge jana walijadili rasimu ya sera ya elimu huku wakitofautiana kuhusiana na suala la watoto wenye umri wa miaka mitatu kuanza shule ya awali kutokana na mazingira ya vijijini kutofautiana na yale ya mijini .
mjadala wa bajeti ya wizara ya nishati na madini kwa mwaka 2013 / 14 umesitishwa na kuondolewa bungeni ili kuepuka kuchochea vurugu za mtwara .
bajeti hiyo ambayo ilianza kujadiliwa juzi na kupangiwa kumalizika jana , sasa itajadiliwa katika tarehe itakayopangwa kutokana na kuhofia michango ya wabunge kuwa inaweza kuchochea vurugu za gesi mkoani mtwara .
kambi rasmi ya upinzani bungeni imeibua upya sakata la aliyekuwa katibu mkuu wa wizara ya nishati na madini , david jairo na richmond , huku ikilishutumu bunge kwamba , limeshindwa kusimamia utekelezwaji wa maazimio yake .
kamanda wa polisi wa mkoa wa arusha , liberatus sabas , amedai uchunguzi wa awali kuhusu ujumbe unaodaiwa kutumwa na mkuu wa mkoa wa arusha , magesa mulongo , umetumwa na mtandao wa simu wa nje ya nchi .
mbunge wa viti maalum ( chadema ) , rebecca mngodo , amesema ameshangaa kuona hotuba yote ya bajeti ya wizara ya habari , vijana , utamaduni na michezo kutozungumzia kutekwa , kuteswa na kuuawa kwa waandishi wa habari ingawa wako chini ya wizara hiyo .
jukwaa la wahariri tanzania ( tef ) limesema halioni kama kulikuwa na hali ya uchochezi kwenye hotuba iliyowasilishwa na msemaji wa kambi ya upinzani bungeni dodoma juzi , kuhusu makadirio ya mapato na matumizi ya wizara ya habari , vijana utamaduni na michezo .
wanasheria wana usemi kwamba katika kusimamia sheria siyo kutenda haki tu bali haki ionekane ikitendeka ’ .
wanatoa usemi huu wanapojenga hoja kwamba katika kutenda haki ni lazima mchakato wote wa kusimamia haki hiyo uonekana ukisimama kwenye mstari wa haki .
kwa muda mrefu sasa , wananchi nchini nikiwamo mimi , wamekuwa wakishangazwa na baadhi ya wabunge wanaotoa michango na maoni bungeni , wanapokuwa wakichangia hoja , wanasoma kama hotuba ; hali inayoashiria tuamini huenda miongoni mwao wana uelewa mdogo wa kujenga hoja .
mbunge wa iringa mjini ( chadema ) , mchungaji peter msigwa , ameachiwa kwa dhamana baada ya kufikishwa katika mahakama ya hakimu mkazi wilaya ya iringa na watuhumiwa wengine 74 kufuatia vurugu zilizotokea juzi kati ya wafanyabiashara wadogo maarufu kama wamachinga na polisi mjini hapa .
hotuba ya kambi ya upinzani kuhusu makadirio na mapato na matumizi ya wizara ya habari , vijana , utamaduni na michezo , jana ilisababisha shughuli za bunge kusitishwa kwa muda , kwa kile kilichoelezwa kuwa imejaa maneno ya uchochezi .
vurugu kubwa zimezuka kati ya wafanyabiashara ndogo ndogo ( machinga ) na jeshi la polisi mkoani iringa na kusababisha maduka kufungwa , huduma mbalimbali ikiwamo ibada za jumapili kusitishwa baada ya jeshi hilo kutumia nguvu , kuwatawanya wafanyabiashara hao katika eneo la mashine tatu , manispaa ya iringa .
mkutano wa 11 wa bunge la bajeti kwa mwaka wa fedha wa 2013 / 14 unaoendelea wiki hii utatawaliwa na moto mkali utakaowashwa dhidi ya wizara ya nishati na madini kutokana na kukabiliwa na changamoto mbalimbali , miongoni mwake , suala la gesi asilia , upatikanaji wa umeme na kiporo cha hatma ya aliyekuwa katibu mkuu wa wizara hiyo , david jairo .
wabunge waipasha serikali kuacha papara ya kuingia kwenye mikataba ya uchimbaji gesi asilia , kwani itaipeleka nchi pabaya na kuiingiza kwenye hasara kama ilivyotokea kwenye mikataba tata ya madini .
kambi zinazipongana ndani ya chama cha mapinduzi ( ccm ) kuelekea uchaguzi mkuu wa 2015 , zajiimarisha ndani ya bunge , nipashe jumapili limebaini .
mkakati huo unadaiwa kutekelezwa kupitia kamati kadhaa za bunge , mojawapo ikiwa ni kamati ya kudumu ya miundombinu inayoongozwa na mbunge wa kigoma mjini ( ccm ) , peter serukamba .
mbunge wa igunga ( ccm ) , dk .
peter kafumu , amewataka polisi kuwakamata wapinga maendeleo wa jimbo hilo bila kujali wanatoka chama gani .
serikali imetakiwa kuboresha mamlaka ya bandari tanzania ( tpa ) kwakuwa ni tegemeo kubwa la mapato na uchumi wa taifa .
wakichangia bajeti ya wizara ya uchukuzi jana na juzi , wabunge mbalimbali waliozungumza walisema tanzania ina bahati kwa kuzungukwa na nchi sita ambazo zinategemea bandari hiyo .
juhudi za mbuge wa viti maalum ( ccm ) , zarina madabida , kukinusuru kiwanda cha tanzania pharmaceutical industries limited ( tpi ) na kashfa ya kuhusika na dawa bandia za kupunguza makali ya ukimwi ( arv ) , zimeendelea kugonga mwamba baada ya taasisi mbili za serikali kusisitiza kwamba kinahusika na janga hilo .
ofisi ya bunge mjini dodoma , imewataka wabunge wote kuanzia jana kutoegesha magari yao nje ya ukuta wa jengo la bunge kutokana na matishio ya kiulinzi na kiusalama .
tangazo hilo lilisomwa jana ndani ya ukumbi wa bunge na mwenyekiti wa bunge , musa azan zungu .
chama cha wananchi ( cuf ) kimesema kinaungana na watanzania walioonyesha shaka juu ya mchakato wa kupata katiba mpya kwani hakioni nia njema na utayari wa tume kuwa na katiba inayotokana na maoni ya wananchi .
waziri mkuu mstaafu na mbunge wa monduli , edward lowassa ametoa wito wa kuwepo kwa mjadala mpana na wa kina zaidi juu ya tatizo la ajira kwa vijana nchini .
akizungumza katika uzinduzi wa kitabu kinachozungumzia na kutathmini mzozo wa kiuchumi duniani kwa kuiangalia tanzania , jijini dar es salaam jana , lowassa alisema ni muhimu kwa wadau wote wakiwepo wasomi , wanasiasa , wafanyabishara na wananchi wasiyo na ajira hususan vijana , kushiriki katika mjadala huo na kutoa mapendekezo ya suluhisho la tatizo hilo .
wakati rais jakaya kikwete akifikia nusu ya kipindi chake cha pili cha utawala cha miaka mitano na mawaziri wake wakiwasilisha bajeti zao bungeni dodoma , mwishoni mwa wiki hii atakutana na wabunge wote wa chama cha mapinduzi ( ccm ) pamoja na mambo mengine kujadili utekelezaji wa ilani ya uchaguzi ya chama hicho kwa kipindi cha 2010-2015 .
kambi ya upinzani bungeni imeibua kashfa nzito dhidi ya wabunge na waziri kumiliki mradi wa kuzalisha umeme wa upepo , singida na kwenda kuuombea dola za marekani milioni 134 kwa ridhaa ya serikali .
wananchi waliowekeza fedha zao katika kampuni ya development enterpreneurship for community initiative ( deci ) , wametakiwa kuendelea kuwa na subiri wakati sakata la kampuni hiyo likiwa linashughulikiwa .
msemaji mkuu wa kambi ya upinzani katika wizara ya ujenzi , said arfi ( chadema ) , ameonya tabia ya baadhi ya wabunge kuziponda hotuba za kambi za upinzani hata pale zinapotoa mwelekeo wa kujenga maendeleo ya nchi .
mbunge wa nkasi ( ccm ) , ally keissy , jana alisutwa na baadhi wabunge wa ccm kwa hatua yake ya kutounga mkono bajeti ya wizara ya ujenzi .
hatua hiyo ilifuatia wakati kessy akichangia bajeti ya wizara hiyo jana , tofuati na wabunge wengine wa chama hicho kuipongeza wizara ya ujenzi kwa kazi nzuri ya ujenzi wa barabara , alisema haiungi mkono mpaka waziri atakapompa maelezo kuhusu ujenzi wa barabara za sumbawanga .
mbunge wa ludewa , deo filikunjombe ( ccm ) , ( pichani kuliau ) amewataka mawaziri nchini kuiga mfano wa waziri wa ujenzi dk .
john maufuli , wa kugawa rasilimali za nchi kwa watu wote .
filikunjombe aliyasema hayo jana wakati akichangia hotuba ya bajeti ya wizara ya ujenzi kwa mwaka 2013 / 14 .
serikali imesema kuwa itapiga marufuku uuzaji wa ngozi ghafi nje ya nchi kutokana na tanzania kuwa nchi pekee inayouzwa ngozi ambayo haijasindikwa tofauti na nchi nyingine .
uamuzi huo ulitangazwa na waziri wa viwanda na bishara , dk .
mbunge wa kawe , halima mdee ( chadema ) , ( pichani ) ameitaka serikali kutoa maelezo kuhusu utata wa uuzaji wa nyumba 150 za kiwanda cha saruji , wazo , jijini dar es salaam .
alisema mwaka 2011 alipeleka barua kwenye wizara husika kutaka maelezo kuhusu nyumba hizo , ambazo zilikuwa zimewekwa kwenye mchakato wa kuuzwa .
wabunge jana walikuja juu na kuishambulia mifuko ya hifadhi ya jamii wakisema kuwa haiwanufaishi wanachama wake .
moja ya mambo ambayo wabunge hao walilalamikia katika semina hiyo iliyoandaliwa na mamlaka ya usimamizi na udhibiti wa mifuko ya jamii ( ssra ) , ni kuwa wanachama hawanufaiki ni bei kubwa za nyumba zinazouzwa na mifuko hiyo .
halmashauri ya wilaya ya nzega mkoani tabora imeingia katika kashfa ya ufujaji wa fedha kwa kuandaa ziara za ’ ulaji ’ pamoja na kuunda kamati za uchunguzi zisizo na manufaa .
wakati wizara ya fedha ikiwa haijawasilisha bajeti yake ya 2013 / 2014 , mamlaka ya mapato tanzania ( tra ) inadaiwa kupandisha ushuru wa forodha kinyemela .
uchunguzi umebaini kuwa ushuru wa forodha uliopandishwa ni kwa bidhaa zinazotoka nje ya nchi , hali ambayo imezua malalamiko kutoka kwa wafanyabiashara wanaoagiza bidhaa kutoka nje .
mahakama ya rufaa nchini imetengua maamuzi ya mahakama kuu na kumrudishia ubunge wake dk .
peter dalali kafumu ( ccm ) wa jimbo la igunga baada ya kuridhika ha hoja za upande wa mrufani kuwa jaji aliyesikiliza shauri hilo , hakuzingatia matakwa ya kisheria .
juzi jioni wakati wa mjadala wa hotuba ya bajeti ya wizara ya afya na ustawi wa jamii , mbunge wa viti maalum kupitia chama cha mapinduzi ( ccm ) , zarina madabida , alitumia fursa adhimu ya kujadili masuala ya kitaifa kuhusu afya ya watanzania kushambulia watu na taasisi nyingine ambazo haziwezi kufika bungeni kujibu tuhuma hizo .
mahakama ya rufaa imemrejeshea , aeshi hilary ( ccm ) kiti cha ubunge katika jimbo la sumbawanga mjini .
hukumu hiyo ilisomwa jana mahakamani hapo kwa takribani saa 1 : 30 na naibu msajili wa mahakama ya rufaa , zahra maluma .
kambi ya upinzani bungeni , imeionya serikali kuacha kufanya mzaha na amani ya nchi kwa sababu kutoshughulikia wahalifu wanaoivunja amani ni sawa na kuivunja amani moja kwa moja .
akisoma hotuba ya upinzani kuhusiana na bajeti ya wizara ya mambo ya ndani kwa mwaka 2013 / 14 , msemaji wa kambi hiyo , vincent nyerere , alisema kuna umuhimu wa kutafakari jambo hilo kwa mustakabali wa taifa .
kampuni saba za mawasiliano nchini zimeunganishwa kwenye mkongo wa taifa kwa ajili ya kutoa huduma zao kwa wateja .
akizungumza bungeni jana , naibu waziri , ofisi ya makamu wa rais , charles kitwanga alisema mkongo huo wa mawasiliano ulianza kutumika tangu julai , 2010 .
wabunge wametakiwa kupeleka ofisi ya waziri mkuu , tawala za mikoa na serikali za mitaa ( tamisemi ) orodha ya halmashauri ambazo hazitengi fedha za mafunzo kwa wenyeviti wa mitaa na vijiji .
naibu spika wa bunge , job ndugai , amesema karibu nusu ya watumishi wa taasisi ya bunge ni mzigo .
aliyasema hayo jana wakati akichangia katika semina ya wabunge ya mfumo mpya wa usimamizi na ufuatiliaji wa miradi ya maendeleo ili kupata matokeo makubwa sasa .
mbunge wa viti maalum ( ccm ) , vicky kamata , ( pichani kulia ) amatarajiwa kugawa vitabu 5,000 vya masomo ya sayansi , kiingereza na hesabu kwa shule mbalimbali za kata za mkoa wa geita kwa lengo la kuendeleza elimu .
ni jambo lisilopingika kwamba , serikali ya awamu nne chini ya uongozi wa rais jakaya kikwete imekwenda mbali zaidi katika upanuzi wa demokrasia nchini .
bunge la jamhuri ya muungano wa tanzania ni mfano mmojawapo wa ustawi wa demokrasia nchini .
maryamu salum msabaha : wabunge wa zanzibar wasigeuzwe ' mbuzi wa albadiri ' ni mbunge wa kwanza wa bunge la jamhuri ya muungano wa tanzania wa viti maalum kutoka zanzibar , ambaye ameamua kujitokeza hadharani kupinga kwa nguvu zake zote kile anachokiita & ldquo ; wabunge kutoka visiwani zanzibar kugeuzwa ’ mbuzi wa albadiri ’ .
kamati ya watu saba iliyoundwa kuchunguza mfumo mzima katika sekta ya ujenzi hapa nchini , imeongezewa muda wa wiki mbili baada ya kushindwa kukamilisha kazi yake kutokana na kukosa nyaraka mbalimbali .
kiongozi wa kambi rasmi ya upinzani bungeni , freeman mbowe , amelalamikia kitendo cha wabunge wengi wa chama cha mapinduzi ( ccm ) waliokuwa wamepangwa kuchangia mjadala wa bajeti ya wizara ya maliasili na utalii kwa mwaka 2013 / 14 , kutofanya hivyo na hivyo , kusababisha muda pamoja na mamilioni ya shilingi za kuendesha shughuli za bunge kupotea .
mbunge wa nkenge , assumpter mshamba ( ccm ) , amelitaka shirikisho la soka tanzania ( tff ) kutoa nafasi kwa wataalam wake wa ufundi kuzunguka katika mikoa yote nchini kusaka vipaji vipya vitakavyojiunga na timu ya taifa & ldquo ; taifa stars ’ .
naibu waziri wa ujenzi , gerson lwenge , amegeuka mbogo baada ya mmoja wa wamiliki wa magari ya mizigo kumwambia amewadanganya wabunge kuwa hafahamu ucheleweshaji wa vibali vya magari ya kunyanyulia vitu vizito .
tuhuma dhidi ya katibu mkuu wa chama cha mapinduzi ( ccm ) , abdulrahman kinana , ( pichani ) kuhusika katika usafirishaji wa pembe za ndovu , zimewalazimisha wabunge kadhaa wa ccm kumsafisha .
kambi rasmi ya upinzani bungeni , imemlipua katibu mkuu wa chama cha mapinduzi ( ccm ) , abdulrahman kinana , ikidai kuwa shehena ya pembe za ndovu zenye uzito wa tani nne kutoka tanzania na kenya zilizokamatwa nchini vietnam mwaka 2009 , zilisafirishwa na kampuni inayomilikiwa na yeye pamoja na mkewe .
mbunge wa jimbo la msalala , ezekiel maige , amesema anakusudia kuikataa bajeti ya wizara ya ardhi , nyumba na maendeleo ya makazi ikiwa haitatenga fedha za kupima viwanja vya wilayani kahama . & ldquo ; nguvu za mayonda hufilia nyangwani . & rdquo ; nyani wawapo kwenye kiini cha msitu au mikoko huwa stadi ila watokapo n-nje karibu na bahari huwa rahisi kushambuliwa .
methali hii hutumiwa kwa mtu au watu wanaotumia vyeo vyao vibaya .
nikihesabu kwa haraka haraka , hii ni mara ya tatu sasa katika kipindi kisichopungua miaka miwili , wabunge wa bunge la jamhuri ya muungano wa tanzania kuikatalia serikali kupitisha bajeti zake zinazowasilishwa bungeni .
umati mkubwa wa wakazi wa jiji la arusha wakiwamo wanachama wa chama cha demokrasia na maendeleo ( chadema ) , jana ulifurika eneo la mahakama ya hakimu mkazi arusha wakati mbunge wa jimbo la arusha , godbless lema ( chadema ) , alipofikishwa mahakamani hapo na kusomewa tuhuma za uchochezi .
wakati serikali ikijikusanya huko na huko ili kuongeza bajeti ya wizara ya maji kwa mwaka wa fedha wa 2013 / 2014 kutoka sh. bilioni 398.4 zilizokuwa zimetengwa awali hadi sh. bilioni 582 .
mbunge wa mtera , livingstone lusinde ( ccm ) maarufu kibajaji , amesema atawaongoza wananchi wa jimbo lake kwenda kuvamia shamba la zabibu na kugawana , iwapo serikali itashindwa kuliendeleza eneo hilo hadi kufikia mwishoni mwa mwaka huu .
wiki iliyopita nilinukuu barua pepe ya mwalimu kuhusu viboko mashuleni , na mimi nikaongezea ya kwangu .
nilipigiwa simu na mwalimu mwenzangu mmoja , maana mwandishi wa habari nawe ni mwalimu wa umma .
kambi rasmi ya upinzani bungeni imeitaka serikali kusitisha mara moja mpango wake wa kuruhusu watu wachache kuagiza mchele kutoka nje ya nchi , ambao haulipiwi ushuru .
kiongozi wa kambi hiyo , freeman mbowe , alisema hayo alipozungumza na waandishi wa habari katika ofisi za bunge na kutangaza uamuzi wa kambi yake wa kuanzisha utaratibu mpya wa kuzungumza na vyombo vya habari kila wiki juu ya mambo yanayojiri bungeni .
mkutano wa 11 wa bunge la bajeti kwa mwaka wa fedha wa 2013 / 2014 unaendelea leo , huku shauku kubwa ya watanzania ikijielekeza zaidi kutaka kujua kama bajeti ya wizara ya maji imeongezewa fedha za kutosha , ili kulipatia ufumbuzi wa uhakika tatizo kubwa la maji nchini , hasa katika maeneo ya vijijini , lililolalamikiwa na wabunge wote na kusababisha kutoiunga mkono .
wabunge wa chama cha mapinduzi ( ccm ) , jana walishambuliana huku waliokuwa mstari wa mbele kuikosoa serikali katika vikao vya bajeti vinavyoendelea mjini dodoma wakituhumiwa kukiua chama na kukipa nguvu chama cha demokrasia na maendeleo ( chadema ) .
wabunge wamempa wakati mgumu waziri wa maji , profesa jummanne maghembe , baada ya kumtuhumu kuwa anajipendelea kutokana na kupeleka sh. bilioni 32 katika miradi ya maji kwenye wilaya ya mwanga anayotoka huku fedha za uchangia wa miradi ya maji katika vijiji 10 kwa kila halmashauri nchini ikitengewa sh .
bunge limeingilia kati kuunusuru mfuko wa pensheni kwa watumishi wa serikali ( pspf ) , ambao umeelezwa kwamba umefilisika huku serikali ikikiri kuwa chanzo cha hali hiyo , na kuomba radhi .
serikali imepinga hoja ya mbunge wa moshi vijijini ( ccm ) , dk .
cyril chami , kuhusu kasi ya maendeleo katika jimbo la hai linalowakilishwa na freeman mbowe ( chadema ) .
jopo la majaji watatu wa mahakama ya rufaa ya tanzania wanatarajia kuanza kusikiliza rufaa ya aliyekuwa mbunge wa igunga ( ccm ) , dk .
dalaly kafumu , aliyevuliwa ubunge na mahamaa kuu kanda ya tabora .
mbunge wa kisesa , luhaga mpina ( ccm ) , amekabidhi uthibitisho wa takwimu zinazoonyesha kuwa deni la taifa linaongezeka kwa sababu matumizi ya serikali yanazidi mapato ya ndani .
tanzania imesafirisha jumla ya tani 371,317 za samaki na mazao ya uvuvi nje ya nchini .
naibu waziri wa maendeleo ya mifugo na uvuvi , benedict ole nangoro , alisema hayo alipokuwa akijibu swali la mbunge wa wawi , hamad rashid mohamed ( cuf ) .
wabunge watano wa chama cha demokrasia na maendeleo ( chadema ) waliofukuzwa bungeni wiki iliyopita na kupewa adhabu ya siku tano ya kutohudhuria vikao vya bunge la bajeti , wameanza kukusanya orodha ya wananchi katika mikoa minne , wakiomba ridhaa yao kuunga mkono hoja binafsi itakayowasilishwa bungeni baada ya aprili 30 , mwaka huu .
mbunge wa kawe ( chadema ) , halima mdee , ameshangazwa na baraza la mawaziri kwa kushindwa kumshauri rais jakaya kikwete , ambaye anahofiwa kudanganywa kuiruhusu kampuni ya kimarekani ya mosanto inayozalisha mbegu za vyakula zinazosababisha watoto kuzaliwa taahira .
mbunge wa mwibara ( ccm ) , kangi lugola , jana alilazimika kuomba mwongozo wa spika kutokana na baadhi ya mawaziri na naibu mawaziri , ' kukacha ' mjadala wa bajeti ya wizara ya kilimo , chakula na ushirika ya mwaka 2013 / 2014 .
pata kibonzo chako kila siku toka kwa kabwela , the flexibles na dogo walmart set to be cleared in india foreign investment probefinancial timesindia 's closed shopwall street journal ( blog ) see all 38 sourcesrelated walmart cyclone of change sweeping india : narendra modizee news - by ajith vijay kumarindia is in the grip of a cyclone of change : narendra modiibnlivesee all 147 sourcesrelated narendra modi bharti airtel acquires 100 per cent in qualcomm 's india venturebusiness todaytelecos offer better service to high-paying customerstimes of indiasee all 30 sourcesrelated bharti airtel weak rupee : india 's forex reserves rising on nri remittanceseconomic timesindia cbank said to consider closing fx swap window for oil cos - bloomberg tvreuterssee all 94 sourcesrelated indian rupee a physical or electronic signature of a person authorized to act on behalf of the owner of an exclusive right that is allegedly infringed ; identification of the material that is claimed to be infringing or to be the subject of infringing activity and that is to be removed or access to which is to be disabled , and information reasonably sufficient to permit us to locate the material ; a statement that you have a good faith belief that use of the material in the manner complained of is not authorized by the copyright owner , its agent or the law ; and a statement that the information in the notification is accurate , and under penalty of perjury , that you are authorized to act on behalf of the owner of an exclusive right that is allegedly infringed .
if you are seeking permission to use our content , do not contact us at this address .
instead , please see our reprint and reuse policy or visit www.djreprints.com.
it was further alleged that on the same date and place , the accused was found with 15 rounds of ammunitions for an smg , six rounds of ammunition for a short gun , five spent cartridges of an smg and one spent cartridge of a short gun all without any license .
the accused pleaded not guilty to the charges and was remanded in custody for failure to meet bail conditions and the case was adjourned to october 28 , this year when it comes for mentioning .
free trade : quebec cheesemakers may be hit hard by deal with eu apologetics " always be prepared to make a defense to any one who calls you to account for the hope that is in you , yet do it with gentleness and reverence ; and keep your conscience clear , so that , when you are abused , those who revile your good behavior in christ may be put to shame . " ( 1 peter 3 : 15-16 ) his right ear cut off and his penis and testicles shoved into a gourd .
he was later moved to the central prison but the damage has their crime was to be members of msd , the movement for the house of a frodebu leader killing his 7-year-old son and leaving him gravely later , in the far east of the country , in the small town of the result was the death of four and the hospitalisation of member of a political party that is not the one that is in power is a crime and the third option is to return to the violence and permanent this is not a choice that the opposition , or any citizen turned a blind eye to all these manoeuvrings and abuses of human rights and of the party in power to stop arresting , torturing and assassinating the political boys ' club and no one was going to rock the boat in this period of multiple and the results of the elections known before the populace even goes to the polls .
the eac has chosen to support the perpetrators of abuse and not the we realise that if democracy is to be saved , it is for us and courageous in burundi .
we cannot return to the dictatorships that have to be an example to the region .
we need to show how political pluralism can what is the value of the east african community if its if we are serious about democracy in africa we need to stop the naiveté of the foreign ministers in the region was is he said , " the eac will insist on the democratisation of all member states to we need to hold our leaders accountable so that all can will pay it for them .
nor will they obtain it on credit . "
pre-registration is appreciated but walk-in ’ s are always welcome.sponsored by the diocese of of privacy and our company will act accordingly .
see faqsprima criză a globalizării | cadran politic nu e nevoie de nici o demonstratie a faptului ca traim vremuri de criza .
o omenire sta atârnata de ecrane pe care urmareste lupte dure si dispute amare .
dar sintagma ce se afla pe buzele tuturor , & # 8220 ; criza irakiana & # 8221 ; acopera de fapt doua crize .
criza irakiana propriu-zisa e veche si se poate explica în termeni foarte simpli .
un stat & # 8211 ; irakul azi , îsi ataca în 1990 vecinul & # 8211 ; kuwait , si îl ocupa .
e somat de catre consiliul de securitate sa evacueze teritoriile ocupate si nu se conformeaza .
dupa paisprezece rezolutii este obligat de coalitia militara condusa de sua , sa o faca .
razboiul din golf a fost cel mai spectacular si urmarit conflict de dupa razboiul mondial .
consiliul de securitate decide dezarmarea si cum aceasta nu se realizeaza , irakul e somatde un nou rând de rezolutii sa se conformeze , si un nou embargo se instituie .
criza irakiana se întinde peste un deceniu .
ea urmeaza schema sistemului international clasic : un stat ataca pe altul si agresiunea e condamnata .
statul victima cere ajutor , dar nu de la onu , al carui sistem de securitate colectiva nu a functionat decât în cazul razboiului coreean , din cauza scaunului gol al unei mari puteri ( urss ) , ce putea obiecta .
ceea ce nu a însemnat sa nu joace alte roluri , ca operatiile de mentinere a pacii si a supravegherii liniilor de armistitiu .
sistemul de securitate colectiva din carta onu presupunea mijloace de constrângere , trupe internationale terestre , navale si aeriene puse la dispozitia onu , care sa conduca operatii militare cu generalii numiti de organizatie .
deci pe cine se bazeaza un agresat , daca nu pe ajutorul unor state interesate în pacea regiunii , a unor aliati , a unor prieteni si vecini ?
ei vor invoca desigur condamnarea formala a agresorului de catre onu .
aceasta organizatie este expresia de vârf a actualului sistem international bazat pe state membre .
nu poate face decât ce vor acestea .
carta îi interzice sa se amestece în treburile interne .
în crize lungi de patru decenii , ca cea a apartheidului , n-a putut interveni efectiv : a fost invocat principiul de aur al neamestecului în treburile interne .
în marea majoritate a conflictelor ce au avut loc , onu nici macar nu si-a spus cuvântul .
razboaie ca vietnamul , afganistanul , razboaie africane sau latino-americane , nu au figurat pe ordinea de zi .
marile puteri au paralizat timp de cinci decenii , cu sau fara razboi rece , sistemul de interventie colectiva al natiunilor unite .
crizele politice au fost întotdeauna dramatice . în ele este vorba de conflicte între parti care fusesera legate de interese comune , dar , din cauza unui litigiu nesolutionat , se afla în situatia rupturii , adica a întreruperii relatiilor si interactiunii normale , înlocuite eventual prin interactiunea violenta ( conflict armat , razboi ) sau a alternativei fericite a reconcilierii pe bazaunei solutii pasnice .
în timpul razboiului rece , care a fost presarat cu multe crize : interventia sovietica în ungaria ( 1956 ) , criza berlinului ( 1959-1961 ) , crizarachetelor din cuba ( 1962 ) , interventia sovietica în cehoslovacia ( 1968 ) si alte crize în numeroase tari afro-asiatice , acestea au fost teste ale coexistentei .
unele situau omenirea pe pragul catastrofei nucleare , ca în cazul crizei cubaneze .
daca între superputerile nucleare s-ar fi putut produce o ruptura ireparabila , altele provocau doar proteste diplomatice sau înasprirea relatiilor care însa continuau , restabilind echilibrul nesigur si instabil al terorii si facând sa reintre lucrurile într-un fagas relativ ( si precar ) de normalitate .
dupa patru sedinte aprinse , consiliul de securitate , în criza cubaneza , si-a suspendat sedintele , n-a adoptat nici o rezolutie si nici macar nu a înregistrat acordul realizat prin canalele bilaterale americano-sovietice .
trasatura pe care o deducem din aceasta succinta incursiune istorica , ca fiind caracteristica pentru criza politica internationala , este ruperea , fisura , spartura unui sistem ce tinea unite parti care în timpul crizei contemplau separarea .
exista o criza a relatiilor între partile componente ale cehoslovaciei ; ea se termina prin divizarea tarii in doua state noi , pe cale pasnica .
exista cam în acelasi timp o criza a federatiei iugoslave ; ea duce la desfacerea tarii în sase unitati statale noi , de data asta cu spasme violente si razboi .
descompunerea federatiilor si statelor secolului trecut , cea mai spectaculara fiind aceea a uniunii sovietice ( zece state noi ! ) tine de secolul trecut si de sistemul international care l-a caracterizat .
acest sistem creat la 1648 la închiderea razboiului de treizeci de ani , se bazeaza pe state , ca unice unitati legitime ale scenei lumii .
la rascruce de secole si milenii , un alt sistem de organizare a lumii se anunta : sistemul global .
în primul rând , acesta mai are si alti actori decât statele : corporatii ( în unele cazuri mai bogate decât statele & # 8211 ; cu cifre de afaceri mai mari decât bugetele saupib-ul acestora ) , organisme neguvernamentale , societate civila , societate academica , grupari profesionale , orase , regiuni si de ce nu , chiar indivizi .
când lordul bertrand russell , laureat al premiului nobel si pacifist , a trimis o scrisoare lui kennedy si hrusciov în timpul crizei cubaneze , a avut mai multa audienta internationala decât multe figuri politice ca precursor al vocii societatii civile .
în al doilea rând , globalitatea aceasta e irezistibila .
ea se bazeaza pe tehnologie avansata , al carei uz de facilitare a comunicarii si informatiei , dincolo si peste orice granita geografica , schimbând sensul timpului si spatiuluipentru omul contemporan , nu se pune la vot si nu cere aprobarea nimanui .
conditiile pentru regruparea omeniri în retele de interese sunt astfel create .
daca este pe internet , un articol al acestei reviste va fiaccesibil în orice loc al planetei .
la ora aceasta , ne aflam în tranzitie de la sistemul international la sistemul global .
primul are institutii cu reguli , norme si conventii , în frunte cu natiunile unite si cu marea sa familie de agentii guvernamentale .
sistemul global nu are înca institutii , nici reglementari .
pe terenul sau liber intra tot soiul de actori ilegali , care profita de starea de interregn , cum sunt toti traficantii de arme , de carne alba , de bani negri , mafiotii si teroristii .
alte activitati pasnice si importante au beneficiat de globalitate si au adus activitatile lor la niveluri exceptionale : cooperarea financiara , comertul , cooperarea economica , stiintifica , cea educativa , turistica , aproape toate , în mod predominant , efectuate de actori neguvernamentali .
statele si guvernele sunt ultimii beneficiari ai mijloacelor globalitatii .
în materie de propaganda si imagine , au deschis pagini utile de internet , dar activitatile lor practica în general contactul bilateral , predominant face-to-face , sau cel multilateral în conferinte si reuniuni numeroase , la care delegatii guvernamentali se deplaseaza fizic .
mii de conferinte ar putea fi economisite prin sistemul e-conferences pentru care toate conditiile sunt întrunite .
globalizarea e usor de recunoscut : multiplicitatea de actori si strânsa lor conexiune .
zecile de organisme internationale prezente în conflictele balcanilor satisfac prima caracteristica , dar nu si pe a doua .
actori mari ca organismele integrate nu si-au definit pozitia în globalitate si atât mai putin în sistemul onu .
globalizarea apeleaza mai energic la interventia în treburile interne ale statelor în cazul delincventelor grave , într-o perioada în care statele accepta transferul de suveranitate în procesele de integrare , dar dispune de mijloace pasnice bine puse la punct .
iarasi , prima trasatura e vizibila în evenimentele recente , dar a doua nu .
globalizarea e pragmatica si nu doctrinara , iar sistemul ei multipolar .
prima caracteristica se poate vedea , a doua nu e înca realizata .
criza a doua , de sub eticheta irakiana , priveste un conflict neviolent .
este în faza discursurilor .
priveste tensiunea si ciocnirile de opinii contrare ale membrilor a trei organizatii : nato , ue si onu .
motivul este tot irakul , dar radacinile neîntelegerii si mai ales consecintele nu tin de speta dezbaterii , adica de modul de a dezarma irakul prin interventie armata sau metode pasnice .
însa , tot criza este , daca tinem seama ca sensul acestui termen vine de la grecescul & # 8220 ; a decide & # 8221 ; si intr-adevar soarta unei crize sta în decizia de la punctele ei de rascruce , acolo unde spirala merge în sus spre explozie sau deznodamânt fatal sau pe trepte în jos în de-escaladare .
crizele celor trei organizatii sunt crize politice , de sistem .
ele nu sunt crize de securitate ci privesc modul în care aceasta este asigurata .
mai mult : se refera la organizarea lumii .
au loc într-un moment istoric când se trece de la un sistem la altul .
a avut oare acest sistem global timp sa aiba crize când se afla de abia în anii copilariei ?
sa luam , de pilda , actele teroriste din septembrie 2001 în new york .
numai prin intensitate ele difera de ceea ce traim din anii 1970 încoace .
terorismul e o plaga a vechiului sistem mostenita de globalitate .
e o criza de securitate , care nu poate fi asigurata prin metodele clasice .
dar , desi poate fi facilitat de transportul facil , legaturi , comunicare si mijloace ale globalitatii , nu este un produs al acesteia .
magnitudinea si intensitatea sfidarii sunt într-adevar noi , dar fenomenul e o expresie sau un produs al crizelor vechi si al ranilor nevindecate ale secolului trecut .
nici vociferarile împotriva carentelor globalizarii si a lipsei institutiilor de sistem nu înseamna înca o criza , nici protestele celor ce se simt dezavantajati de cursa ei frenetica competitiva .
termenul de criza se aplica la evenimentele din februarie 2003 când s-a ivit o fisura în componenta principala a sistemului international si anume în organismele înfiintate si sustinute de societatea occidentala sau euroatlantica.gravitatea acestei crize consta in alternativele solutiei : adâncirea fisurii pâna la ruptura sau separare si continuarea conlucrarii .
confruntarea celor doua puncte de vedere ( sua & # 8211 ; anglia si înca 40 de state pentru interventie neîntârziata , franta & # 8211 ; germania împreuna cu china si rusia pentru proceduri pasnice sub egida onu , sustinute de alte state si largi miscari populare ) a adus o modificare paradoxala a problemei : cazul irak prezenta o importanta mai mica decât consecintele ei pentru lumea occidentala .
din septembrie 2001 , aceasta lume e trezita la o realitate dura : e sfidata de acte teroriste majore si de un pericol de tip nou , cu un dusman greu de identificat si de localizat ; se afla minoritara într-o lumeostila , în ascendenta numerica rapida ; are de rezolvat probleme noi cu institutii si metode vechi si ineficiente .
trece acest prag al dificultatii si creeaza o larga alianta a civilizatiei care uneste state din toate categoriile si regiunile împotriva dusmanului comun .
si putin dupa aceea , pe tema tacticii de urmat în cazul saddam , aceasta lume mica se rupe în doua , distrugând si marea coalitie antiterorista dupa ea .
din punct de vedere istoric , este cea mai mare eroare ce se putea produce la începutul unui secol , pe care l-ar fi transformat într-o era anarhica si distrugatoare pentru pozitia ei în lume .
criza a fost dezbatuta , solutia a fost cautata si protagonistii au revenit la ratiune în trei acte .
februarie 2003 .
la sediul nato din bruxelles se discuta cererea statutara a turciei de a primi ajutor de la organizatie .
sua este profund interesata în sprijinirea unui aliat de baza în campania anti-irakiana , interes denuntat de un trio european : franta , germania si belgia care se opun , motivând o miscare ce ar facilita solutia razboiului .
si în acest caz , tema formala e mult depasita de implicatiile deciziei .
o solutie a secretariatului general esueaza .
alta este creata prin explorarea unor proceduri interne .
ea reuseste .
nato evita o ruptura , continua sa functioneze pe o platforma comuna .
alternativa a fost evitata .
nici suasi sustinatorii sai , nici franta si prietenii sai nu au creat noi institutii obediente si fidele .
februarie 2003 .
se joaca la bruxelles , la sediul ue .
ministrii de externe membri ai consiliului sunt chemati sa se pronunte în privinta unui punct de vedere european comun fata de problema dezarmarii irakului .
la început , confruntare aspra a partizanilor solutiei sua , si a celor favorizând metoda onu .
la orizont , imposibilitatea unui acord si prin aceasta distrugerea oricarei aspiratii de a conduce europa spre o politica externa comuna , piesa esentiala în desfasurarea unitatii europene .
mai mult decât atât , înghetarea întregului proces si polarizarea celor doua tabere în factiuni adverse si rivale .
în ultimul moment , formula comuna e gasita , ratiunea prevaleaza , ue continua sa existe si sa-si urmeze programul .
martie 2003. se joaca la onu , în sala consiliului desecuritate .
batalia se duce în jurul unei rezolutii prezentate de sua si anglia , cerând în esenta lumina verde pentru interventia lor , ca urmare a neîndeplinirii de catre irak a cererilor impuse de rezolutia unanima a consiliului se securitate 1441 din decembrie .
oricât de ciudat ar parea , si în acest caz , faptul daca irakul este atacat de fortele sua sau nu , aremai putina importanta decât daca atacul se face cu aprobarea tacita sau expresa a onu sau daca o dezaprobare e sanctificata printr-un veto sau un vot negativ în consiliul de securitate .
ultimul caz distruge ceea ce mai exista dinautoritatea onu si risca sa puna organizatia la cosul relicvelor vetuste ale istoriei .
înseamna ca intram într-o perioada în care normele si institutiile create pentru pacea si securitatea internationala , chiar asa slabe si ineficiente cum sunt , nu mai au valabilitate .
preludiu procedural minuscul la razboiul de treizeci de ani al noului secol , dupa unii .
rezolutia nu se pune la vot .
fisura nu se adânceste .
exista o rezolutie unanima din noiembrie 2002 , care poate fi interpretata diferit .
razboiul poate începe în interpretarea sua , dar nu este legal în interpretarea altora ; aparentele formale sunt salvate .
onu îsi continua activitatea .
mai mult decât atât , are în reconstructie un rol recunoscut de toti .
ue îsi mentine coeziunea în jurul acestei idei ( summit-ul din martie ) , adoptând un text unanim .
de data aceasta onu e mai bine pregatita pentru activitate , are agentii de asistenta umanitara si practica în restabilirea ordinii de stat ( cambodgia ) .
sua au facut la azore o declaratie care se îndeparta de planurile ei anuntate anterior de a guverna singura tara în timpul perioadei de reconstructie , recunoscând rolul onu .
razboiul se desfasoara pe o perioada nesigura , dar lumea vorbeste de perioada postbelica , subiect reparator pentru tensiunea celor trei organizatii vizitate de criza .
dar aceasta nu e rezolvata .
noi dispute se anunta în privinta rezolutiilor care vor fi adoptate la onu pentru demararea procesului .
în fond , onu a girat si fondul veniturilor din petrol de care irakul dispunea doar pentru hrana si medicamente .
oponentii razboiului , ca franta si rusia , anunta ca nu vor vota nimic ceea ce ar putea legitima retrospectiv interventia militara a sua .
chiar daca se acorda sanse de reconciliere la nivelul liderilor , societatea civila manifesta prin miscarile sale mult mai adânci diviziuni si tendinte de radicalizare .
reforma onu sau o noua institutie a societatilor globalizate , structura institutionala si politica a noului sistem ( cine face legea , cine decide ) , locul fiecaruia în sistem ( ue sau nato ) vor fi marea tema a acestui secol .
la urma urmei , e vorba de marea familie a omenirii si de supravietuirea ei în conditii de pace .
envoy says guatemala to complete all pending child adoptions by us couples by end of year ( 9 / 25 / 2013 9 : 23 : 02 pm ) click the " forgot password " link under the login box located on the upper right corner of the page .
a : to log in to the website , enter the username and password you received via email in the username and password filed located q : what do i do if i 've forgotton my password ... to the email address on record for the account .
note , the browser limit will typically be reached only if you try logging in to the site q : what do i do if i 've received the " browser limit exceeded " error page ...
q : what are newsstand credits and how are they used ...
[ usa visa for thais & girlfriends ] [ uk visas for spouses & girlfriends ] [ non immigrant visas ] [ lawyer automotivebridalbusinesseducationfamily livingfashion / fitnessgift ideasgreen livinghealthhome decoratinghome improvement / constructionhot topicshow-tokitchen / bed / bathlawn / gardenmoney / financepetsreal estaterecipes / entertainingseasonalsenior livingtech talk / innovationtravel september 27 , 2013 let ’ s start from the beginning the cancer is spreading , people hungry and begging but because of their conditioning no one is moving and no one is helping dog eat dog this is what ’ s happening with the bay men ’ s logwood cutting then squatting isabela and ferdinand ’ s enriching ...
september 18 , 2013 i trust our fellow caricom brethren have maintained a watchful eye on the ongoing saga involving the government of belize ’ s implausible call for belizeans to vote , via referendum , on whether or not to take guatemala ’ s unfounded claim on our sovereign territory to the international court of justice ( icj ) .
september 9 , 2013 will she be like margaret thatcher ?
or as charismatic as benazir or as bold as portia simpson or trinidad ’ s kamla persad bissesar will it be she who stood up to oceana endorsed by mr machiavelli when he dubbed her persona non grata that she was destined to be belize ’ s first female ...
commentary : dugu for tourism is an insult to garinagu , but its potency could be useful elsewhere commentary : the return of justice to the people of dangriga town and the south commentary : a questionable future for the garifuna people in the south of belize commentary : it is not only about voting but all rights idb approves up to $ 100 million for poverty alleviation in dominican republic bovada gives you a chance to win a seat at this year 's sizzling hot punta cana poker classic in dominican republic the financial company is cleaning up its act following a postcrisis meltdown , but the shares remain cheap .
in the interests of the protection of our users ' privacy across the km group 's portfolio of websites , we are adopting the following we want to ensure that all of our visitors are made aware of the prefer , you can set your browser to refuse cookies .
you should be properly if you do not accept the cookies sent by them. experience , but are not controlled in your web browser in the same bg man indicted in deadly shooting outside a domino ’ s thu oct 17 , 2013 6 : 14 pm edt federal grand jury indicts bunger thu oct 17 , 2013 4 : 14 pm edt leachate control project in works thu oct 17 , 2013 2 : 14 pm edt n.ky. shooting victim in ’ high spirits ’ tue aug 20 , 2013 12 : 14 am edt special session for redistricting in ky . tue aug 20 , 2013 12 : 14 am edt classes begin at nku with new changes tue aug 20 , 2013 12 : 14 am edt bailey dominates in 9-1 win over brewers mon aug 19 , 2013 02 : 14 am edt man sentenced in death of lexington doctor thu oct 17 , 2013 6 : 14 pm edt changes approved for holly ’ s house in danville thu oct 17 , 2013 2 : 14 pm edt defendant may be forced to represent self in case thu oct 17 , 2013 12 : 14 pm edt popular safety city and dare programs on the city ’ s chopping block wed jun 20 , 2012 02 : 14 am edt man admits beating his girlfriend ’ s grandmother to death wed jun 20 , 2012 02 : 14 am edt teen convicted in friend ’ s slaying to continue treatment fri oct 7 , 2011 10 : 14 am edt 2,300 in lexington for state ffa convention , and they ’ re not all farmers fri oct 7 , 2011 10 : 14 am edt man shows up at hospital hours after he was shot fri oct 18 , 2013 06 : 14 am edt gun in capitol restroom renews talk about tightening missouri laws gov. nixon issues statement on missouri ’ s ranking as one of the most business-friendly tax climates in the nation ghosts and goblins : say ’ cheese ’ with the eagle at third thursday tue oct 15 , 2013 12 : 28 am edt vt .
ag sorrell to run for re-election fri oct 18 , 2013 06 : 28 am edt sisters plead guilty to neglecting cats fri oct 18 , 2013 04 : 28 am edt pedestrian struck by train , killed in waterbury thu oct 17 , 2013 12 : 28 pm edt area hospitals fight the spread of flu thu oct 17 , 2013 8 : 28 pm edt waterbury police go pink for cancer thu oct 17 , 2013 8 : 28 pm edt police : robbery was set up fri oct 18 , 2013 04 : 28 am edt energizer plant plans switch to gas fri oct 18 , 2013 04 : 28 am edt app must-have : wptz alarm clock thu oct 17 , 2013 6 : 28 pm edt police : gunpoint robbery was a setup thu oct 17 , 2013 12 : 28 pm edt sisters plead guilty to neglecting cats thu oct 17 , 2013 10 : 28 am edt luxembourg , one of the smallest countries in europe but one of the richest in the world , is set to hold early general elections on october 20 . ( 10 / 17 / 2013 6 : 44 : 42 am ) conoce los dulces más dañinos para los niños y los más recomendables para dar y ...
¿ beber agua adelgaza ?
¿ cuántos litros debo tomar al día ?
¿ con sodio o sin sodio ? ...
una dieta que propone regresar a los orígenes y alimentarse como lo hacían nuest ...
deliciosa bebida de frambuesa , lechuga asada y otras ideas originales de la chef ...
la conductora de los premios billboard de la música mexicana aylín m ...
octubre es el mes de concientización del cáncer del seno méxico es una tierra de mujeres hermosas , ¿ cuál es tu favorita ?
descubre la belleza del otoño en estados unidos visitando alguno de ...
latinas que son orgullo y ejemplo a seguir en diferentes ámbitos : ac ...
the struggle for economic freedom is now : mwalimu nyerere 's legacy activism vs loyalty : why mwalimu is irrelevant in the new constitution debate julius kambarage nyerere was born on 13 april 1922 at butiama village , mara region , as one of 26 children of nyerere burito ( 1860 – 1942 ) , chief of the zanaki tribe .
he began attending government primary school in musoma at the age of 12 where he completed the four year programme in three years and went on to tabora government school in 1937 .
the tanzanian forest industries federation ( tfif ) , the country ’ s main stakeholders in the forest has faulted the big result now ( brn ) implementation in the forestry sector .
an official of the dar es salaam based comprehensive community based rehabilitation in tanzania ( ccbrt ) was left perplexed one day as he entered a shop at karikaooo , dar es salaam .
from nowhere a woman gave her him a 200 / - coin apparently as alms to a ’ poor person .
limited access to legal aid services has been singled out as a key factor contributing to gross violations of women ’ s and girls ’ rights in many parts of tanzania .
on the slopes of udzungwa mountains , some 400 km south-west of dar es salaam in the heart of the kilombero valley lies a 10,000 hectare sugarcane plantation .
the kilombero valley is the cradle of sugarcane farming in the united republic of tanzania and the home of tanzania ’ s largest sugarcane estate – kilombero .
who would have thought that a less fortunate woman who sells doughnuts in the streets of mbagala , kijichi would one day own her own bajaj in the city of dar es salaam ?
current eac leadership crisis is this danger to the organization 's survival ?
technically , both were members of the authority , but operationally mwalimu would not sit at a table with iddi amin ( ’ simtaki muuaji huyu ’ ) .
for residents of matongo , nyangoto , kerende , kewanja and nyakunguru villages in tarime district , august is a dry month as evidenced by the blue skies that are not tainted by a white cloud even as early as ten o ’ clock in the morning .
mount kilimanjaro got its name from the swahili words kilima njaro meaning & ldquo ; shining mountain & rdquo ; , as revealed on its famous ice cap at the top .
the chinese characters boldly painted on a supermarket poster in tanzania ’ s commercial capital dar es salaam say a lot about the growing influence of china on this east african nation .
nit all out in educating local experts but challenges abound tycoons ’ children are not like those of common people .
for while some of the ordinary tanzanians ’ children are labouring in sisal fields or stealing their parents ’ fowls , the children of tycoons are employed in different sectors , including the central government .
a staggering youth entered a commutter bus recently in dar es salaam , his breath carrying the reek of alcohol .
ask zainab omar of misozwe village in muheza district why she takes part in conserving the village forests of mlinga , manga and kwizee and she will quickly give you several reasons – to get firewood , to sustain flows of water in streams around the village and to keep the rainy seasons stable .
she was in a big hurry and at times could run whenever she could do it .
shivji 's two-state solution : that 's the disease which it purports to cure the above statement was uttered by one retired female officer of the ministry of education and vocational training ( moevt ) in 2012 .
her name is mrs urassa aka mama meta .
she mentioned those words when we met at professor isaria kimambo ’ s residence in makongo juu , kinondoni district .
for robi chacha ( not her name ) , a mother of four who lives in matongo village of tarime district in mara region , tuesday and fridays are the best days of the week for the family especially between july and october .
rehema mbaruku ( 45 ) is one of the happiest women in foroforo village located 48 kilometres from korogwe district headquarters in tanga region .
thousands of youths enter the job market every year .
and of these , very few are likely to get employment .
so where do the rest go ?
self-employment is said to be an alternative to unemployment as it offers a steady income .
steve biko , mizengo pinda and problematics of an ' insurrectionist democracy ' prime minister mizengo pinda has lately come up for a pillorying following his comments in the august chamber of parliament that the state was fatigued with applying the flywhisk to trouble-prone gatherings of the leading opposition party , issuing a clarion call : the time for beating is now .
silt and water hyacinth are becoming a threat to mabayani dam , the main source of water for tanga city residents and those in the peripherals .
the two enemies are caused by human activities in the amani nature reserve ( anr ) located in the east usambara mountains .
man wounded in miramar shooting thu oct 17 , 2013 06 : 10 am edt dermatology gets a facelift in new boca raton venture sun oct 13 , 2013 04 : 10 am edt uptown delray to bring new apartments to the south side of town thu oct 17 , 2013 08 : 10 am edt no. 22 florida down , but not out in sec east race thu oct 17 , 2013 10 : 10 pm edt plea deal in works for former sweetwater mayor ?
thu oct 17 , 2013 8 : 10 pm edt s fla cities studying dutch on sea level rise thu oct 17 , 2013 6 : 10 pm edt dolphins cheerleaders godmothers of norwegian cruise ships thu oct 17 , 2013 2 : 10 pm edt atty. illness causes mistrial for 1 in boulis case thu oct 17 , 2013 10 : 10 pm edt legislators aim to memorialize flagler in tallahassee fri oct 18 , 2013 12 : 10 am edt flagler bridge to reopen by nov .
1 thu oct 17 , 2013 6 : 10 pm edt cool japan lures fashionistas back one stitch at a time fri oct 18 , 2013 06 : 10 am edt d.c. and the long-term investor fri oct 18 , 2013 06 : 10 am edt ex-mob muscle : i didn ’ t kill for money thu oct 17 , 2013 10 : 10 am edt police : man punches grandmother in the head thu oct 17 , 2013 10 : 10 pm edt infringement of privacy and our company will act accordingly .
see cambodia | reliefweb first tranche of aid to the philippines , laos , cambodia and vietnam rdc : & bdquo ; près de 90 & percnt des combattants du m23 sont des militaires rwandais « affirme un déserteur .
rdc : & bdquo ; près de 90 & percnt des combattants du m23 sont des militaires & bdquo ; pas loin de quatre vingt-dix pour cent ( 90 & percnt ) des combattants de la rébellion m23 qui se bat à l ’ est de la république démocratique du congo ( rdc ) , sont des militaires de l ’ armée rwandaise « , a affirmé à la bbc un des quatre rwandais recrutés et forcés de rejoindre les rangs des rebelles du m23 .
les ces quatre individus ont déclaré avoir été recrutés de force au rwanda par prêter main forte aux rebelles du m23 qui sévissent à l ’ est de la rdc depuis des mois.après s ’ être échappés , ils ont demandél ’ asile en ouganda , d ’ où ils ont livré leur témoignage à la bbcce mardi le 31 juillet .
un des déserteurs affirme que le mouvement m23 est constitué à 90 & percnt de militaires de l ’ armée rwandaise .
un autre transfuge quisuivaitdes études de médecine au rwanda lors de son recrutement forcé pour le compte du m23 , a indiqué à la bbc , qu ’ il a soigné plus de 300 combattants du m23 blessés au les témoignages de ces déserteurs corroborent le contenu du rapport de humanrights watch ( hrw ) publié le 22juillet dernier.dans ce rapport d ’ autres combattants , recrutés de force au rwanda et qui ont réussi à s ’ échapper , ont combattre de l ’ autre coté de la frontière rwandaise.dans ce rapport , ces combattants ont également rapporté que la rébellion m23 est constituée en grande partie de militaires de l ’ armée rwandaise et de combattants recrutés de force au ce n ’ est pas la première fois que des recrues rwandaises pour le compte du m23 demandent asile en ouganda .
le 20 juin dernier , 16 étudiants rwandais ( 14 hommes et deux femmes ) y avaient encore demandé l ’ asile en déclarant être victimes du harcèlement des autorités de leur pays pour avoir refusé de se joindre auxrebelles du m23.deux de ces étudiants en fuite ont affirmé qu ’ ils avaient refusé de participer au programme parce que leurs amis qui y sont allés le rwanda continue de nier son soutien au m23 malgré l ’ accumulation des le porte parole de l ’ armée rwandaise , joseph nzabamwita , a déclaré à la bbc topics in the newsu.s.nflbruce arianspresident barack obamacarson palmerrashard mendenhallrussell wilsonsan franciscojay feelynascar browse categoriesbrandscultureevents and awardshealth and wellnesslegislation and actsnatural and physical sciencesorganizationspeopleplaces , geographyreligion and beliefs new constitution was sold as an act of self-determination and is nowhere near this hernandez was dismissed as manager of the dr giraldi home following her disclosure of a string of abuses alleged by members of her staff the pirate of bgtw – which has been the instigator of the present conflict which the spanish govt is using for its political advantage and evidently is a symbiotic relationship ....
hmgog restates it express goodwill and disposition to enter “ constructive and collaborative dialogue ” with spain in the immediate future on trilateral or “ ad hoc ” terms .
new jobless numbers are a bit of a mixed bag for president obama and his re-election bid .
for some , an end to ' lake foul ' not hard to imagine 7d 6h ago by michelle ye hee lee , the republic | azcentral.com © 2012 usa today , a division of gannett co .
inc .
